LETTERS
FROM
FELICIA

T O
t ■,
V
CHARLOTTE

r :
', - >.
coktaii^ing
O : / j'v
'»
s:
IE'
A Series of the most interesting Events, interspersed with Moral Reflections; chiefly tending to prove that the Seeds of Virtue are implanted in the Mind of etery Reasonable Beingi
> r
h fourtst Edition.
goiirected and Improved,
IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I.
LONDON:
/
l^'rinted for J. Rivington, T. Caslon, j. Johnson, T Pain, and W. Goldsmith',
mdcclxxiiii
. VI
i
\
C
» «
U, of
Library
6
tp

F
C I A
T O
CHARLOTTE.

z'
0
O
>
3
'A!
li
0
o
3
I — ****
3

,, c
••
<
?>
il^’
0"
LETTER i.
V
u
Dear Madam,
F T E R a long journey that took up four days, I arrived last week at my aunt’s, where, I Suppose, I am to stay a considerable time j in which I afliire you my chief uneasiness will consist in being Separated from you; and that, you -- may depend upon it, will be great enough o’confci vol. I. B ence.

N

cnce. However, to pass away Some of my hours, which I foresee will lie pretty heavy upon my hands, I will send you an account of all that happens worth your'notice: but you must not be offended if I tell you, I write as much to amuse myself as to please you; Since this employment will not only be a recreation to me, but will flatter and sooth my friendship, and, in Some measure, compenfatc for the want of your company, I shall always, while I am writing, think I am talking to you; and am even now delighted with the idea of that pleasing intercourse of minds we shall probably enjoy at this distance. How agreea 'ble is the thought; that as often as you hear from me, you will learn everything that paste in the soul of your friend, whilst I in return shall meet with the same proof of an open undifguiled friendship from you! For my part, I intend to discover all the Secret folds of my heart, and to unbosom myself to you without the least reserve, as I am persuaded I shall never have any secrets which you have not a
V
right to be acquainted with, and which I shall not be very ready to communicate. Pray do you follow my example; write with the Same unreserved freedom, and never disguise those
little affair? in which your heart is concerned;
for
/

3
for these things, I think, my friendship gives me a peculiar right to know.
I AM now I don’t know how many miles
distant from deaf London, the seat of your joys; and must not expert for a long time to
See again the Mall, the play house, or the drawing-room; but I begin to fancy, that in a month or two I shall be reconciled to gloomy shades, tall trees, murmuring brooks, and all the Sylvan scenes which Surround me; and even cease to regret rny distance from the genteel diversions of the gay and polite vforld j for if plain and Simple nature can ever appear agreeable, it must be here, where she shows herself in all her beauties. What a change have I already undergone! I rise at least three or four hours Sooner than I ever did in my life before; and even go to bed long before mid
Instead of the rattling of coaches, I
ni
ht.
now hear only the rustling of leaves, or the warbling of birds; and, instead of rich perfumes, my senses are regaled with the milder fragrance of nature.
Nay, prithee, my dear, don’t laugh at me: I am yet neither poet, nor lover, nor do I find that I am in the least danger of being either of them. Ypu, I know, cannot perceive any charms in Such a rude retreat, fit to engage the
B 2 attention
4

/
attention of a fine lady. Here are no powdered beaux, or gilt equipages, none of the Splendid allurements, with which ladies of your vivacity are apt to be captivated : but for my part, a natural tin<sture of gravity may possibly make me more easily Support the absence of what your gayer difpofiiion may induce you to consider as the very essence of happiness.
My aunt, I find, is a lady of plain good Sense, and of a moss fiee, cafy and engaging behaviour; but as to her person, it is far from being agreeable; her face is of an immoderate length; her eyebrows large and very dark; and her nose of a more than ordinary Size: but notwithstanding this, she has an air of affability and good nature Spread over her countenance, which, at the first view, inspires every one that sees her with a pleasing confidence. Her easy condescending goodness, her sweetness, affability and complaisant freedom, diffuse over the minds of the meanest obje<st$ such a felf xomplacency. Such an unreserved frankness of heart, as renders it impossible for them in her company to be stiffened by an oneafy restraint. The lowest being that bears the stamp of the human.nature is an object of her regard. She puts herself upon a level with them in her conversation, and even uses a
language
F E LICIA
Charlotte.
B
language different from her own, in order to fiiit her dileourfe to their ideas, and to make them understand her advice, the consolation she offers them, and the friendly eonecrn she fe«ls for their happiness. As to her stature, it is Something above the ordinary height, though? she is a little awry; and, indeed, she has nothing about her that Speaks the agcomplished^ lady, though everybody that sees her must immediately think <(1, should rather Say feelv
4 _ _, _
her a very good dnfer In short, she is a wo -- man of great prudence, and a perfetst co: ono
misti, and therefore her thoughts seem equally divided between the management of her own family, and a generous care for the welfare of chose who apply to her for assistance. The' education of her children makes up. a great part of her felicity; it is a delightful eftiploy'
ment which she knows how to render as
%
agreeable to them as to herself. The young; ladies have been accustomedlrom their infancy to share with her in the delicate pleasure of Communicating ^ happiness, and have learned from her, and an English Seneca, which they have almost by hearty the most engaging way of doing good. They have a Snaall Salary at their own disposal; and their good mother tells me, she often feels her heart glow with a secret
^
pleasure
/


pleasure at Seeing them' dry up the tears of the diftreficd, with that money with which they had iatended to purchase Some fafhionabic piece of vanity, or Some ornamental trifle. The old gentleman, my uncle, who died about Seven years ago, lest her with four children, and a large estate, but very much encumbered with mortgages, which, by her prudent management, (he has lately paid olf. And she would now be very happy, had Ihe not a Son, whose brutal extravagance and debaucheries render her extremely anxious for his welfare. This young man is about eighteen, of a robust constitution, pretty fat, and with a countenance perfcistly expreflivc of the dullness and stupidity of his mind, which has been too rough to be polished by a most free and liberal education; but as he is going to make the tour of Europe, I shall probably never have occa sion to mention him again. The eldest daughter I have not Seen yet, she being lately married to a gentleman at a constderable distance from hence. Amelia, her Aster, is a Jady agreeable in her person, and happy in the pofleltion of a calm, yet Sedate mind; her passions seem to be regular, her thoughts just, her language unaffedled. Soft, and flowing.
After this short ebarader, you cannot wonder
•. that.

7
that I no Sooner knew her, than I conceived
a friendship for her, which I am persuaded i?
now become reciprocal Polly, the youngest
daughter, is not quite ten years old; she is a
lovely little creature, of a most promising genius,
and has Such an earnest thirst after knowledge,
that her pretty questions frequently give me a very high fatisfacstion.
With these two young ladies, and Some
other agreeable companions, I Spend great
part of my time. The fun is no Sooner risen,
than we take a walk, and taste the freshness
of the morning air, in Some of those rural Scenes which Surround our house, while the
innocent gaiety of ray new friends gives an alacrity to my Spirits, which is greatly heightened by the softness of these early breezes, and the various Scenes of natural beauty, which every way present themselves to our view.
But it is time to conclude, stnce I have written enough for my first letter, and therefore shall only add, what your affection will,, I am sure, make you most Solicitous to know; that is, that I am perfectly well, and have no
other uneasinefs than what arises from my distance from you. I am,
Dear Charlotte,
Yam's mojt affe£iionatelyai

B 4
F E L I C I A
LET
\
§

LETTER II
HE pleasure, dear Madam, you cxpress at hearing from me, is Such a proof of your affeifiion, that I cannot help taking notice of it. The endearments of a friend have Something So extremely charming in them, that it is impossible we should be insensible of their value. If flattery eassly insinuates iifelf into ©ur hearts, it is chiefly because it Soothes our dessre of pleasing j but how much Sweeter are the caresses of a person on whose esteem we found our happiness, and whole fatisfadfion rebounds back, and gives us vrho confer it, a kind of self approbation. So much for preface, wo or three days after I Sent you my let y cousm Amelia proposed our taking an in the coach the next morning, as Soon as it was light, which was accordingly put in praffice: but we had not gone far, before the stillnefs of the air, and the novelty of the prospe<fi to me, induced us to walk. A Sandy rock, out of which was cut huge caverns that Seemed ready to falst was on our left, and by a delightful contrast. Set off the Spacious meadows and fields, which, on the right, extended to an inconceivable distance, where our sight
was
7
LTC1 A' TO char LOTTE.
9'
was only bounded by a clear Iky, that Seemed to meet the ground, and in Some places by hills, which could hardly be diftinguilhed from ^
the gilded clouds in which they wrapped themselves. Our eye at one view took in abundance of little villages^ wbieh arising from a -- midst the trees at a great distance, agreeably ' diverstfied this delightful landfeape.^"
Whilst we walked on, difeoursing on' several agreeable Subjects, I observed that the scene presently changed, and these precipices terminated in a high and steep hill. So full of tall trees and shrubs', that it formed a most delighful grove. I'he grass here was mixed with beds of violets and primrofds, * which diffused a charming fragrance through the air. Here we sat down to refresh ourselves; on the banks of a Small fountain, ' which with a gentle murmur ran from a cavity under the hill; and after having, drank Some of the water out of a ’ basin which was chained to the Side of it, we struck into a narrow winding path, and began ^ to mount the eminence to take in a larger'
■ * Lest this defcriptlon Slibnld be' thought romamlca the editor thinks himself obliged to inform the public, that this and the rest of the landfcrapes are actually situ ^ near Nottingham: and that these ladies, he fiippo** fes, resided in a village not far distant from that town.
B 5, ■ - view*'
io

view of the vernal beauties of this delightfut Scene; when I observed a fine river f, which with Serpentine meanders added to the beauty of the whole. But while we were listening to tyre diferent warblings of a number of birds of various kinds, and observing the rabbits Scudding along, and Ikipping at our approach into their burrows, we were interrupted from our contemplations of these trifling amusements, by a voice that at once Seized and fixed our attention; for we were near enough to hear di
4
stifkstly every word; though when we looked around us, we could discover no human objedb
near. The unknown person Seemed engaged
%
in a contemplation, of the harmony of nature and with a Soft, yet manly voice. Spoke though following rhapsody“
“Nature! how beautiful, howdovely ‘‘ are all thy works! with what pleasure do ^ around, and view the vast profusion“ “wisdom, and. infinite skill that Surrounds “me! -- -- -- -- - Blested retreat 1 where every
object leads me to. .explore the bounteous “author of all goodness, who thus distributes“ “favours to man, and thus teaches us to' “concur with him. in promoting the univerfai^ “gpod^ While heaven, all communicativ©
Tlis rivet Trent
“heaven;

If
heaven, thus profusely showers down its ** blessings, and imparts to us all that can“ “our Senses, or ravish our grateful minds with innocent delight, shall we with “contracted arts confine our pleasure to the “narrow limits' of Selfish passions, and not “rather exert our utmost ab^ities, in order to “disperse a flood of joy, and render the beau teous, the harmonious Scene compieat? -- But ah! how Small a share can I contribute to’ “the great design?? in a manner amidst;
o o
the immensity of nature, like a Single flower amidst the numberless number which enamel “this verdant carpet,, or a. fraall plant in this “vernal landscape,, too minute singly to gain“ “attention, and which could not be missed “out of the blooming Scene !’ — But why do I“ “? Am I not Sufficiently happyj if, ^ “amidst the works of, my Creator,, I can like “them, by fulfilling the duties of my narrow Iphere, promote the general Splendour and' harmony of the whole. If the inanimate' creation can give Such pleasures to a rational mind, how much nobler must be the satis fackion with which fi^erior beings view the' “beauteous order of the more noble, the intes ledual world, when the passions and inclinations
of the mind compose an harmonious;
B 6. scene., V
/
12

Scene, infinitely more lovely than the finest “and most elegant dispositions of matter?
Here the voice stopped: perhaps we were discovered through the trees, and the unknown
person was displeased in being interrupted in his private reverie. However, curiosity made us proceed j for I was very desirous of knowing the stranger, whose Sentiments and language had prejudiced me very much in his favour.
I do not know, my dear, what you will think of our adventure; but for my part I
formed a most amiable idea of the person of
/
this stranger, though I had never Seen him; and his words made Such an impression upon my heart, that I believe I have repeated every lyilable; but the graceful manner, and the inufic of his voice, are what I can never give you the least idea of; for upon my word they were quite inexpressible.
Amelia endeavoured now to persuade me to return, but I was too much charmed with what I had heard, to conferit to do it immediately. Prompted by a little female curiosity, I resolved, if possible, to steal, at least, one view of shis stranger, which I did not doubt but I might easily do without beirig perceived. She laughed at my motive; but, however, at my
entreaties, consented to follow me, I then
struck
V
Fslicia to Charlotte.

struck into one of the winding patlis which lay on the Side from whence I heard the voice, but had not gone far, when looking back, I missed my companion. This at once alarmed me, and made me very uileafy, both on her account and my own. — I stood still — — —. I
listened -- -- -- I returned back, stopping every
moment to look around me j but just as I regained the place from whence 1 engaged her to accompany me in this foolish expedition, I heard a rufsling of the leaves at a small distance, when my heart Suddenly leapt with joy at the thought of having found again my friend: but was quite mistaken; for, instead “of her, a young man appeared from amidst the boughs. He came to me with an air of respest.
But I shall forbear giving a description of his person, till I can give you that of his mind, and that must not be till I know him better j which I hope will not be long. However, I must tell you, that I believe it was the Same, who had a few minutes before So agreeably engaged my attention. He no Sooner canie up to me, than he observed the disorder of my countenance, which in a moment was imprinted upon his, when making me a low bow. May I presume to ask. Madam, Said he, with a trembling voice, and a most expressive look,
what
14
Fflicia to Charlottr, ’
\
what it is that difcomposes you.? Are yoa alone? Yes, Sir, returned I, 1 have lost my companion, a young lady, who, I imagine, is in equal pain to find me. Well, Madam, replied he, with an ingenuous look, might I hope that you would put yourself under the protection of a stranger, I would gladly offer my Service to wait upon you, till you rejoin the lady. Here he glanced his eyes upon me as if to anticipate my answer; but immediately, cast them down to the ground, and I think a sigh escaped him.
Though I was under no apprehension as to the behaviour of this young gentleman, yet I could not help hesitating a little to confides what answer I should make him, I was apprehensive, that should my cousin find me in his company, she might thinlc I avoided her with design; and this might postibly not only disgust her, but give her Some thoughts to my prejudice. besides, in the opinion of the world, it might not be thought decent for me to be found so early, in Such a. retired place, with a man whom I had never Seen before, and to
f
whose charaifier I must confess myself an utter
stranger. But these refledfions wopld doubtless
%
given way to my inclinations, had not the young gentleman, perceiving that I continued
Sd

15
filent, resumed : I See, Madam, you are afraid of trusting yourself with me; I cannot blame your caution, and will therefore leave you, in order to Seek the lady whose absence Seems to give you Some pain; and shall think myself very happy, if my endeavours should restore your quiet. This is a very obliging proposal. Sir, returned I; and I gladly take you at your word; meanwhile I will wait here to learn your success;; I am ashamed to give you this trouble. I have no other trouble, Madam, returned he, than in Separating myself from you. But I ought not to complain, Since it is to serve you.
Here he retired; but had not been gone long before I saw him return with precipitation, when he told me that he Saw a lady walking down the hill, on which I permitted him to cond u(st me out of the wood, took my leave shim, and presently rejoined her.
Amelia was too angry wish me to forbear reproaching me for the uneasiness I had given her, though she expressed her resentment in she most obliging terms; but was Soon pacified when she found it was done without design, and I had been equally troubled on her account. And indeed my uneasiness had been a fiifficient
funishment fbf my indiscretion. -- -- -- -- Buts
hav e

16

have troubled you too long with things of no’ consequence, and will only add that we made haste to our coach, and were driven home to breakfast.
Pray give my respests were due, and dome the justice to think me.
Dear Charlotte
Lhe fmcergji and
tnoji: affeslionate of your friends ^
feliciai
LET E R III
ELL, well, my dear, yoa may be as merry as you will with my romantic adventure, as you are pleased to call it. — I do not wonder at your laughing at me; for i had penetration enough to foresee it; however, that could not prevent my giving you a faithful account of this extraordinary ramble; for I
had rather you should be a little merry at my expense, than I be such a rebel to friendship,, as to conceal any of my pleasures or pains from you. But if what t related in my last may appear too trifling to deserve your notice, I do
not

I)
not doubt but I shall atone for the trouble I have given you in reading it, by describing Scenes more interesting.
The person you are pleased, in the gaiety of your heart,, to call some Sylvan deity, who
you suppose inhabits the enchanting groves, the Arcadian Scenes you Say I have described, is a mere earthly being, as very a mortal as you or I j and the native beauties of this rural retreat, notwithstanding what your are pleased to insinuate to the contrary, are So' far from being
• V
heightened by my description, that were you with me, you would hardly think I had done them justice. But while you are attra£led by the charms of your young admirer’s dressed and
Iplendid equipage, and dazzled with the glitter of a court, no wonder you think these humbler Scenes, these innocent and simple charnls which
please me, are almost wholly fidlitious, and little else but the invention of a luxuriant
fancy
m
m
a Sort of fairyland that exists nowhere
but in my own imagination,
I Saw the amiable youth I am now to descfibe to you at church last Sunday. The
moment I cast my eyes upon him, I observed his fixed upon me; and to make an ingenuous confession, I felt my heart instantly flutter with a very agreeable emotion. I had for Several
days
i8
 "
t
days longed to see him and could not now help feeling a Secret joy, at finding my wishes granted. But I observed at the same time that he was in no danger of appearing singular by the regards he cast upon me; for as I was the gayest lady in the whole assembly, everybody, as soon as I arose up, incessantly gazed at me. When the Service was over, I grew impatient to know if he would Speak to me j I fancied he would j at least I wished it. I Sawshim
wait at the door
— I Saw it with pleasure,
and went out with my aunt and coussns, filled with a formidable idea of his perfedlions. But
how was I mortified, when after having ad drested himself to my aunt and her daughters, and paid them Some civil compliments, he took his leave, only making me a low bow, even without opening his lips to me.
Could anything, Madam, be more provoking than this behaviour? Not that I was
in love with him; at least I was resolvcd not
-- -- but to see him So insensible
to think I was -- --
of my attrastions? -- intolerable— — to say
4
one civil thing to me! — what stupidity! — if I had been ever so ugly, he could have done no more. — But however awkward this fit of resentment may appear in me, especially while I declare that I have my heart in my own possess
fioa

19
Sion, yet I had really Some reason for it. There is certainly a pleasure in thinking ourselves beloved by a man of sense; and if I was not adluaily in love, I had a very great ambition to make him So. He would have been a most agreeable conquest, and I should doubtless have thought his addresses a greater honoujf than those of a thousand coxcombs.
The next day, however, I had the pleasure of feeing him at my aunt’s, and could not help flattering myself that I was the cause of his visit. We had just dined, and Amelia, having taken up one of the volumes of the Spedlator, was reading the affecting story of Incle and Yarico, when he entered the parlour, and paying us Some compliments. Seated himself near the door, desiring, at the same time, that heirnight not interrupt our entertainment. As my cousin had been used to treat him with all imaginable freedom, she concluded her story, and we entered upon a conversation on the nature of ingratitude j a fubjedf that afforded the young gentleman a happy opportunity of discovering the delicacy of his Sentiments. He Said a thousand things equally entertaining and instructive, and enlivened his difcourse witji abundance of tender, generous, and manly thoughti: but, at last my aunt being called
out
20

out of the room, her daughters Soon followed her. I was now in the most desirable sttuation, and began to prepare myself for hearing a conversation infinitely more interesting. But how great, how inconceivable was my Surprise ta find the person who a minute before entertained us with Such elegance of thought and expression, instantly became speechless 1 After six ing his eyes upon me for Some time, he arose, and with an air that expressed a tender diffidence changed his seat, and Sat near me but still continued Silent. His eyes, which had a remarkable languor, and a pleasing soft nefs, were still fixed upon me; but I no Sooner met his glances, than with a disordered look he cast them to the floor. I endeavoured in vain to resume the con verfatkm; he replied with Such a tender diffidence as would not fuster him to proceed. His words faltered on his lips, and were uttered with so much confusion, that it was not difficult to observe the struggle he had with his heart, and the pleasing source of his embarastment.
Ah I Madam, could I desire a more agree able triumph? You perhaps, had you been in my place, would have laughed heartily at feeing him look silly; would have ridiculed
this softness of soul, and with ycfur ufoal
sprightliness.
r

21
fprightlinels have diverted yourself, at beholding a man So over awed by your charms, as to give Such proofs of his weakness before you. And indeed can anything more agreeably flatter our vanity, or give us a higher opinion of our own attradiions, than to see them make a fool of good fense, and strike eloquence itself flumb? But alas! I found myself little difposed to assume any Such airs of barbarous gaiety.
I was not much less weak than he, and could not help pitying as well as blaming that modest diffidence that gave him fuchpain; but this was a pity that was attended with a most ex quistte pleasure; nor could I indeed have felt a greater at Seeing him at my feet, had he even altumed the bu&in, and entertained me with all the lofty and melting language of a hero in tragedy. Not all the passionate rants of a lover, who would persuade me to the folly of believing he was dying at my feet, and that his fate depended upon my Smiles or frowns, could have given me half the proofs of a fln cere passion that I now received.
As I promised to give you Some idea of his perfections, I will endeavour to do it now;
his Silence left me at full liberty to examine his person, and I made use of this opportunity of doing it with the utmost freedom; and therefore.
/


22

fore, without she least flattery, I shall give you his portrait as follows:
You mast know then, that he is about twenty; and as to his stature, not much taller than I am : which, by the way, is much too short for the hero of a romance, who ought at least to be Six feet high. His complexion is'lively; his eyes blue and Sparkling, and So very exprestive, that they Seem to difeover in the strongest manner, all the fensations of his heart. A heart that I believe would be a great loser, had it not So true an interpreter to render all its emotions visible; since in his open countenance is painted an ingenuous honesty; the most lively traces of all that is humane, friendly, and benevolent, mixed with an en gauging modesty and stmplicity of manners. His hair is of a dark brunette, and hangs in natural curls, which just touch his shoulders. As to his thoughts, they Seem bent on the improvement of his mind; and the love of truth and virtue (antiquated perfediions!) are So deeply impressed there, that he Seems to have; very little idea of those fancied charms, those fashionable accomplishments, which are necessary to form the charaster of the fine gentleman. Nay, theaukward creature does not appear to have the least notion of the art of
handling
%

23

handling a snuffbox with a grace; does not even know how to murder the reputation of those who are absent, or flatter those that are present And though he Seems very assiduous to please me, he has not, I can tell you, had the complaisance to let me know that he thinks I have more charms than his grandmother.
You have now, my dear Charlotte, a right to form what judgement you please upon the piffure I have drawn. The modest rusticity of my spark. So very different from the confident addrcffes of the town beaux, must make him Seem a very odd sort of a creature to you, who are So used to hear yourself praised in lofty strains, that you will perhaps be Surprised that there should be any other way of touching the heart. But, for my part, however ridiculous his shehaviour may appear to you, I cannot help telling you, that I found myself exceedingly moved with that tender diffidence, and melting confusion, which, in Spite of himself, discovered what I am persuaded he would very gladly have concealed. His Silence itself, added to the Several tender emotions I observed in his countenance, made Some strange advances in
my heart 3 and to be Sincere, I do not know
what
24

what may be the effe<st of two or three more
Such tender interviews.
. After this frank confession, I know you are more inclined to laugh at me, than at him.
. ..Do So if you please — — I shall find an opportunity of laughing at you in my turn.
But to proceed;
my aunt at last
rejoined us after half an hour’s absence, in which time I had not one gallant thing Said to me, not a Syllable that could tell he was my
lover: every declaration of this kind was perfectly involuntary; nor do I know when he will have resolution enough to unburthen his heart to me. But however merry you may make yourself at this letter, I dare say you will be pleased with the confidence I repose in you, and with the fresh auurances I make you of being.
Dear Madam,
Your mojl Jincerey
And aff'evtonaie frund.
$
Felicia.
LED

25
LETTER IV
Dear Charlotte,
DON’T think there is any occahon to make an apology for Sending you this So Soon after my last, though I have not yet received an answer to it. 1 know you are always glad to hear from me, and therefore without ceremony I follow the didlates of my heart, which lead me to communicate everything to you, that I have reason to flatter myself will be an agreeable amusement.
A FEW days ago, my aunt having engaged to Spend a day or two with an elderly gentleman, who lives at a village a few miles distant from our house, they made me one of the party, and we accordingly fet out in the coach. The old gentleman, who expcisted us, met us with his pipe in his mouth, and in an agreeable friendly manner, paid us the compliments of his house before we arrived at it j and then condu6ted us home, smoking all the way at the coach door. As Soon as we
entered his house, his unreserved behaviour
/
rendered his company very diverting. He enlivened the conversation with abundance of
vol. I,
C
merry
26
 '
merry stories, which his humorous and pleasant manner rendered vastly diverting. But the worst part of our entertainment consisted in our being obliged to bear with the impertinence of an old maiden lady, the gentleman’s Sister, who out of an affedlation of extraordinary piety and prudence, joined to
an awkward air of over strained modesty, af
/
an authority that made her perfe^sly ridiculous. You never, in all your life, I dare say, beheld So complete a prude. She would jnfinuate that there was a double meaning in the most innocent exprestions, and would frequently Set us upon Searching for an indecent
thought, where, I dare Say, none but herself ever had any. This was the censor of the
from whom our facetious friend
company, often met with a sharp reprimand.
Fie, fie,
would she frequently cry, interrupting him, tossing up her head, and giving him a look of Supercilious disdain, I protest you make me blush. Really you will oblige me to leave the room. But the best of it was, that this gentleman’s obscenity was like Some people’s wit, with this difference only, that as no body can see that but themselves, so none of the company could find him guilty of a want of decency, but this experienced maid, Besides, her comments

27
ments were an hundred times worse than the text. She must certainly have a most fruitful invention, as well as a very unchaste cast of mind; or elfe, I think it hardly possible that she should be So very intelligent in things, which it is the greatest glory of ladies in our circumstances not to understand. Modesty is the distinguishing virtue of our Sex;
nor can a gentleman violate it in our presence, without being guilty of an unpardonable rudeness; but this virtue will never teach us to torture words and syllables to make them Speak a sense of which the Speaker had not the least idea. Thi* would be to at entirely inconsistent with that love of decency to which we make pretenssons.
But to return to our prude. You would have laughed to hear her (while with an air of the most ridiculous affedlation she drew up her mouth) express her aversxon for the nasty filthy creatures, the men. She is surprised that our Sex can be So impudent as to marry. And though she has had the greatest and most advantageous offers (which by the way, her final) remains of beauty and sense would not tempt one to believe) she could never be prevailed upon so much as to think with patience on the nasty odious things.
C 2 Severe
/
28

Severe as this lady was upon the old gentleman, he was not much behind her in his replies, in which he rallied her So agreeably, that I could almost forgive her impertinence on account f the pleasant remarks it occasioned.
As Soon as dinner was over, she began with a Severe censure upon the weakness and depravity of human nature, which opened the way for abundance of devout Scandal and pious defamation. And as this gave her a happy oe
casion of mentioning, by way of illustration,
\ ^
the real or imaginary vices of her neighbourhood, she seemed to talk on this subject with an unusual satisfa6fion. Her immaculate soul triumphed over the crimes of the multitude, and made her look down upon them with a sacred indignation. Every foible was represented in the most glaring light, and a rea son given for all the accidents which had happened within her notice. Elated with the most pompous ideas of her own Spotlefs virtue, she pretended to know, why one was thrown from his horse, why another was robbed, or another dangerqufly ill of a fever, and pointed out the respective crimes which were the cause of each disaster; while her misfortunes, on the
contrary, were only the trials of an indulgent
providence.


elieia TO Charlotte.
fwovidence. What an admirable artifice ta extinguish the generous impressions of humanity, and to render the heart infenfibje to pity! to blot out all the traces of the Deity, and stamp the brute on the reasonable soul! But what, if possible, added to.the cruelty and inhumanity of her ssanders was, her indire<fi insinuations, artfully mixed with a pretended air of friendship, which were a greater infuk on tliose she aspersed, than her more open invectives. Alas! cried she, with a sigh, who would think that my dear friend — — — — •I won’t mention her name — — — my regard for her will not fuster me to do that — — — but she does not live
r— — say, who would
many doors from us think that So fine a lady, with such a modest and artless look, was not as perfeist in her virtue, as she is in the Symmetry of her per son. But I am glad she has kept her folly to herself,,; indeed am too much her friend ever to divulge it. I have heard, in!
! — -- -- no matter
deed, a little whisper what they say of her: I hope it only proceeds from malice and ill nature. — — — O fie! how can people flander one another at
this rate; to be sure it is very wicked of
ilhem,
C j ¥ BS.,

30

Y E s, doubtless, Madam, replied the old
gentleman, interrupting her with a sneer j we know you are very fenstble of the malignity of this crime. Here he winked at my aunt, shrugged up his shoulders, and she proceeded.
Yes, heaven knows flander is my aversion, resumed she, and I would not, for the world, be guilty of it. What if she is not So llender as she used to be; she may be troubled with
the droply, you know.
I love to put the
best construction upon everything.
Slender! Madam, replied our old friend. Smiling with an air of indignation; I Saw that lady yesterday, and upon my word I never beheld a finer shape, or a more easy air I could not help taking particular notice of her. How! Sir, cried she, with a look that expressed her disappointment and confusson, I am persuaded you don’t know who I meam Yes, Madam, I do, returned he; and between you and I, however you conceal names, you are always Sure to point your invedlives in Such a manner, that nobody can mistake the person they are levelled at. This show of friendship is only a pretence, a Specious artifice to wound the deeper. don’t you think, ladies, continued he turning to us, that my Sister with her white unsullied virtue must appear to great advantage.

31
tage, while she is Surrounded by Such a black neighbourhood. How beautiful must a Swan look in the midst of a flock of ravens!
She was now as red as fire, and was doubt less going to make a Severe reply, when to my no Small satisfaction, the conversation was diverted by a gentleman’s entering the room, with a young lady of genteel appearance, and a person formed to prepostefs every one in her favour. Our good natur’d prude Seemed a little confounded at their presence; but soon recovering herself, ran to embrace the lady, with Such an appearance of Sincerity, that I began to think her more capable of friendship than I had before imagined j but while she was lavishing upon this stranger the most ardent carcstes, and with an cxcess of complaisance, thanking her for her visit, my aunt told me, shat this was the lady she had a minute before so cruelly aspersed under the cha ra£ier of a friend.
All this while I had not taken notice of she gentleman who was brother to this injured lady; but when he was come up to us, I was Seized with a Sudden flow of joy at feeing him the amiable youth I described to you in my last. But you can’t imagine what an effecst this discovery had upon me : the moment I
C 4
cast
32

cast my eyes upon his lister, and considered
her as a lady vilely slandered by the person who was now embracing her, I could not, at first, forbear taking her part against the prude, and being highly offended at her hypocrisy; but now when I considered her as the Sister of this engaging youth, for whom I felt Some of the most tender Sentiments, I could not help regarding the prude as a monster, and entering into the injured lady’s sufferings, with a very different kind of indignation. The affront was become much nearer and more sensible than it was before. And indeed, nothing but my regard for peace could have prevented my cautioning her, whom I now considered as my friend, against one who could stab with a Smile, and sting the person stie hugged to her bosom. Lucius, for that is the young gentleman’s name. Saluted my aunt and cousins with an air the most free and engaging; but when he came to me, methought a timorous confusion rendered his compliments hardly intelligible. However, he took a chair, when the old ’squire, with his ufiial freedom, cried out, at the same time taking him by the hand. Well, my young philosopher, I am heartily glad to See you. Here is a lady in company has been degradin
human nature most unmercifully; and has
even
\
.Fslicia to Charlotte.

seven asserted that we have all a natural propensity to commit the blaclcest crimes. Ods tny life, if I had been able to have managed an argument against her on Such a difficult Subject, I should have thought myself obliged to vindicate the honour of my own Species; Ibut now you are here, you must e’en do it for me. I am not willing to think myself a villain, nor would I maintain Such an ill opinion
of my friends
But have you resolution

enough, my boy, to vindicate your 43wn Sentiments when they oppose those of the ladies?
Yes, Sir, returned he, frailing, when their shonour is to be Supported; but 1 hope there .are none here, that have really Such unworthy ithoughts of themselves and us. For my part,
■ continued he, with an air perfe6lly graceful; 3 think there can’t be a greater ressedfion on isle Author of Nature, on his wisdom .and goodness, on his spotless purity, than this opinion, vvhich at once rendeir man an object ‘of detestation and abhorrence, and his Creator ♦unworthy the title of she Father of his rati iial creation;; title which resse£is a glory upon ♦our Ipecies, and which Springs from the most; refpiendent as well as endearing attribute of '.the .Deity,
C 5
If
{


If we impartially Survey the first impres sions of nature, and the origin of our passions, we shall find that those propensities which are not acquired, are on the fide of virtue. The mind of the infant no, Sooner begins to open and expand, than he feels the dawn of reason: the bright radient stream of heavenly light pours into his Soul, and he sees at once the natural deformity of Some actions, and the native charms and intrinsic lovlinels of others. But even before reason can take place, and while this resplendent ray of thedeity is too glimmering to direct him in the paths of truth and virtue, he feels within him an internal and moral Sense, which distinguiflies between virtue and vice, beauty and deformity, harmony and dis cord. He is delighted with striking colours; he is charmed with the melting waibling of a well touched instrunhent; he is terrified with the braying of an ass, a shriek, or a clap of thunder. But whence can arise these various Sensations of pleasure, or of pain? W hence can Ipring these early ideas of harmony, proportion, and beauty, if they are not founded in the constitution of nature, if there is not an internal Sense, a. natural taste by which they are qualified to difeern them? Virtue is the
music of the soul, the harmony of the passions;
it

35
But why does it experience
it is the order, the Symmetry, the interior beauty of the mind; the Source of the truest pleasures, the fountain of the sublimest and most perfedlhappiness, But let us have recourse to nature, and see if this be not the cafe. How early does the little creature feel fentimenis of gratitude in return for the tender care of its nurse!! early is it intendered by the Social affections of pity and compaleon! And how pleasingly does every natural gussi of Soft af fetstion Swell its breast, and pour from it’s
pretty eyes! -- --
these tender feelings of the soul? For what reason does the untaught mind start back from fpetfiacles of violence and horror? Why is it moved with pity? Why is it shocked and wounded? Why does it bleed at miseries in which itself has no immediate concern? Is it not because it is naturally virtuous, naturally compassionate and Sympathising?
What a delightful representation, cried Amelia, with an expressive Smile, have you given us of human nature! How very different from those gloomy difcourles we daily hear of the wretchedness and deformity of all the race of Adam! Too many of our clergy seem to take a peculiar pleasure in degrading mankind, as if they thought there was no. other way of
c6
exalting

exalting the Deity, than by defeasing his offspring: and this they do by representing us as born in guilt, and naturally incapable of performing the least atfiion either virtuous in itself, or acceptable to our Maker. It is very true, replied my aunt; but, in my opinion, nothing can be more injurious to the cause of virtue, than Such false representations. For my part, as I have carefully attended to the actions and behaviour of children, in their most early infancy, I can say from experience, that I have never beheld the least traces of this na tural turpitude, which is the fubje^l of So many pompous harangues; but as I can’t be supposed to have carried my refle£fions of this kind So far as Lucius, who, I find, has made this fubjes; his study, I shall desire him to run thro’ the most particular of those vices, which are Supposed to lurk in our hearts, in order to she w that they have no real existence in the consti
r
tution of our nature. But what you have said, Sir, added she, addressing herself to Lucius, brings to my mind a circumstance, which may farther illustrate your opimonof the moral sense, and prove by afamiliar instance, that it is really founded in nature, and not merely a plausible representation of what we wish to be true. But not to keep you any longer in fupenfe r
Some

37
some years agas I was at work in my parlour next the hall, I was alarmed at hearing Some body fall downstairs, and my daughter Polly giving a shriek at the same time, I ran in a terrible fright to astist my child. But with what surprise was I seized to See, instead of her, a young man whom I had entertained the day before lying upon the floor, who arose the moment I entered the hall. The dear little creature, who had been the instant before at play, stood speech!efs; she was struck with compassion;; lips were pale, her cheeks were wet with tears, her joints trembled. I pressed her to tell me what was the matter,
but could obtain no other answer than. The
»
man! the man / In short, her whole soul was in such an agony, that it was sometime before I brought her to herielf. This story I alturp you is fal, and I would destre this lady, if she can, to account for this tender flow of bene urolence and compassion in a child of three years old: an age in' which she herself must: allow, that reason could have no share in the
emotions of her heart.
Really, Madam, replied the religious
prude, in a peevisti tone, I am astoniflied to
hear you. I thought you had been more orthodox than to asiert Such strange opinions.
3^

I am Sorry to See that your fondness for your child has Such an unhappy effedi, as to shut your ejes against the truths of our religion. I will warrant you now you don’t believe
original stn. -- -- -- -- don’t we See everywhere
the perverseness of children? But to be sure
■you don’t know that
you won’t see it -- -- -
they are given to lying, pride, and every vice they are capable of committing. One would think that experience alone would be sufficient to let us see that they are naturally wicked. Alas! continued she with a ridiculous whine, and at the same time shaking her head, these are proud thoughts j it is but too true, that our nature is sadly depraved, and that we are naturally inclined to all manner of crimes.
You must permit me. Madam, to distent from your opinion, replied the engaging Lucius with a smile, and I think I am able to prove that nature, who has so early prejudiced the soul on the Side of virtue, has not thrown in amongst her favours any of those baleful ingredients you mention. We receive nothing from the hands of the Supreme Being that is
not like himself, perfectly good -- i'^othing
that he might notcommunicate consistent with
1 t
his infinite benevolence : and therefore all I
can grant is, that this moral sense, like the light
of
 '
39
of reason, is not in every one equally strong, refined and delicate, though it is in all capable of dire6ling to the pursuit of what is amiable and praiseworthy. As to the perversenefs of children, their lying, pride, and whatever else you are pleased to lay to their charge, they are easily accounted for. They have not only ill examples, but are taught to be vicious. Pains are taken to make them So; and the fond mother without design, acts as if Ihe laboured to erase out of its mind the pure imprefiions of nature. But I shall leave this fubje6l, and
The judicious Mr. Locke considers this fubjectt in a very particular manner. If we look Into the common
management of children, says he, we shall have reason to wonder, that there are any foot steps of virtue left in the world. What vice can benamed which parents do not season them with, and drop into them the seeds of, as soon as they are capable to receive them? I don’t mean by the examples they give, which is encouragement enough; but that which I would take notice of here. Is the downright teaching them vice. Give me a blow and I will heat him is a leston which most children hear every day; ” this naturally fixes in their minds principles of revengt. —
They are taught to be proud of their clothes long before they put them on, ” and to treat with contempt and insolence all who are not so well drested as they; by
which they render their hearts obdurate, and root out their natural Sentiments of pity. ‘‘ Lying and equivocations are put Into the mouths of young people, and commended in children, whilst they are for their parent’s
endeavour
40


endeavour to prove that the Several vices laid to our charge have not their Source from nature.
Avarice, with all its black attendants, is confessedly a crime of old age, and Seldom ar* rives at maturity ’till accompanied u'ith grey stairs. Nor can it have the least foundation in the constitution of our frame, ssnce it can only becompletei by time, and a constant war with
advantage.” Their minds are enervated by flattery,
and luxury of every kind, ‘‘ Is my young master a little
■out of order, the queshon is, Whativill my dear eat? What
«
Shall I get for thee? Every body’s inventionis seton work to find out Something luscious and delicate enough to prevail over the want of appetite, which nature has ^wifeiy ordered in the beginning of distempers to prevent
their increase- -- -- -- had the will of his maid before
lie could Speak or go; he had the mastery of his parents
j
ever since he could prattle; and why now he is grown up, and is stronger and wiser than he was then, must he b.c. restrained and curbed? — — If his desires carry him to wine and women, fhey are objects as Suitable to the longing of one of more years, as what he cried for \yhen little, were to the inciinations of a child.’* See Locke qri Education page 34 —. -- 45. But innumerable arc the methods of instilling vice into the fl.’xible mind of the in fatit. Their rewards'render them incorrigibly obstinate, their puniflim.dts make Impressions never to he erased. The hohgollin is ever after a Subject of terror, and the fpoor unhappy wretch who was to take them auuayavhen they ivere naughty has fixed deeply a contempt and aversion Icr objects of misery and distrefe. Ahc tor.
ourfelveso
Fflicia to Chartotte.
41
ourselves. Every ohje£l; of real niilery, every instance of virtue in distress, demands our relief with Such a forcible eloquence, that we at e obliged to struggle with ourselves in order to suppress our rising compassion. The natural feelings of the heart, which on these occasions prompt every man to pity, can’t be erased without a degree of felf denial; a violence to reason; a violence to all the remains gf humanity.
As to lewdness, nature must utterly disclaim it, — — What man that has the least remains of generosity, the least sense of pity,, would not stiudder at the thought of betraying the lovely innocent to guilt, and shame, and infamy? What man, that has not lost all the Sense and understanding of a man, all the Soft and noble impressions of humanity, and who was one step above a brute, would hesitate for a moment whether he should bridle or indulse
o
an inclination, when the dreadful consequence
lies So plainly before him
where misery.
inevitable misery, must attend the partner of his pleasures?
But this is not all; we have not only a
moral lense, but a passion adapted to restrain
\
our desires, and reduce them within proper
bounds : a passion Suited to Soften and reform
our
42

our minds, by inspiring the tenderest, most noble and delicate Sentiments; Here, giving me a look, he coloured, and at the Same time Suffered a Sigh to escape him; but immediately endeavouring to recover himself from his confusion, which he strove in vain to conceal, he resumed- -- -- -- the force of love almost
every one has experienced.
Ay,
ay, cried
the old gentleman, laughing; and I don’t question but every one here has felt its power. For my part, when I was a young man, I was a perfeist enamorato. Was you So? cried the old maid; therefore, because you were such a fool, you must think, to be Sure, that I have been Ib too. No, Sir, I assure you I was never guilty of that weakness. If love. Madam, is a weakness, replied Lucius with some warmth, it is at least the noblest weakness we are liable to. Love refines and humanises the mind, gives a delicacy to our conceptions, and renders us incapable of injuring, even in thought, the dear objetfi: of our Soft affections. And, in fine, is a noble counterpoise to those desires which providence has wisely given us, as it is directly calculated to prevent their carrying us beyond the bounds of reason and virtue. So the pleasing ties of friendstiip, mutual af fecuon, and public fpiritednefs, whose charms
are


43
are almost universally felt, are an additional guard against our degenerating into base, mercenary, and felfish animals.
But as we have all these strong'incitements to virtue, it may be alked. Why there is Such a great degree of vice in the world? I answer,
that it is owing to education; the continual temptation of present and fensible objects, and the powerful force of example. These suspend the generous and kindly impressions of humanity, petrify the tender heart, and make us shut our eyes and ears to pity.
Here our old friend, who for Some time Seemed lost in the pleasure this conversation had given him, finding Lucius had done, arose up in a kind of extaff, when holding his pipe in his hand, he cried out in a theatrical tone:
/
We are by nature virtuous by nature soft and humane
<
^27// selfish pajjions chill our young affebiions^
Andfreexe the tender heart to icy hardness;
No more dijlrejj'ed Virtue swells our breajis j No more tue melt at others wants, and feel Fhofe foreign cares with painful friendly smart And soft compassion. The inwardjiruggle der, ■ The conqueji gained by the dire fury. Vice,
With
44-

With Meduccean power we’re changed to jidnct 10 Hfeleft^ senseless Jione.«....
Here, in the height of his rhapsody, he struck his pipe against the table, with a violence that made it sty into twenty pieces. The oddness of this vvhimstcal behaviour made us immediately burst out a laughing, and in a moment difpersed that thoughtful air that our long
%
attention to this grave ducourfe had spread o ver our faces.
I don’t know, my dear Charlotte, what idea this conversation will give you of this a miable youth; nor can I tell how you will like his sentiments; but this I am Sure of, that you are very much obliged to me for being at all this pains in transcribing, what perhaps only my esteem for the Speaker made me fancy Something curious: tho’ you perhaps may think it hardly worth your notice. You imagine nov that I have got a very extraordinary memory; but to be Sincere, I have done little more than transcribe what my aunt prevailed upon Lucius to give her afterwards in writing upon the fubje<sl:; which he might easily recol iedb as he was the chief Speaker, and the sentiments entirely his own.
Bu T all this while I had np opportunity of

45
a moment’s Separate conversation with this engaging young gentleman : my heart longed to be entertained with a more interesting Subject; a Subject that would have been infinitely more delightful to me, than the most refined Speculations, though accompanied with ^ all the charms of eloquence, all the striking graces
which attended his manner of expressing him
>
And I freely confess that I could not help thinking him a little tedious, though my reason assented to everything he Said. But when he had done the approbation he received from almost all the company. So agreeably flattered my esteem, or if you insist upon it, I will Say my love that 1 never experienced half the delight, when in my vainest moments I have listened to the flattering praises of my
admirers But it is time to conclude this long letter, and therefore 1 shallonly add, that I am,
Toufs, c.
Felicia.
/
L E T T E R V
My dear Charlotte,
TTQW inimitably pretty is your way of raillery! I could not read your letter witn
Oilt
4^
 '
out breaking off at least half a dozen times to laugh at your whimsical conceits. But however, you are never likely to see my Spark in lawn sleeves, though you Say there needs little more than for him to mount the rostrum to
obtain them. -- -- -- -- What a grotesque figure
have you drawn of a gaping congregation listening to his voice, while the soul of music dwells upon his tongue, and all the ladies, charmed with his striking accents. Surrender up their hearts, as I do, to the enchanting force of pleasing sounds and graceful action. Was that the cafe, I am of your mind, that amidst Such a number of competitors, I might strive in vain to charm him; and therefore was there any danger of his entering into holy orders, I should certainly use all the influence I have over him to prevent a step that you say would be So dreadfully fatal to my own repose. But rallery apart, I will now return to my story.
Jn the evening we left our merry hospitable friend, and returned home without lucius’s
having an opportunity of saying one tender thing to me; but his eyes, however, were less reserved, and methought entertained me with a language that I could easily understand. Ah! how much I love, cried they, with a soft timidity; at least I fancied So : whilst an artless,
Sparkling

47
Sparkling glance of mine, in Spite of myself, replied, how much ami pleased that you should do So. I know you can’t keep your countenance at this mute kind of discourse but really I am persuaded that it was very intelligible to us both, though it was So precipitate that nobody in the roonr could take notice of it. Why should we disguise our hearts, and teach our looks a reserve that we are far from feel iag? these little arts should never be used to a man of sense, and merit; as for the rest, we ought to have no care about them. Nor indeed need 1 blush to own, that this Silent intercourse of souls gave me more pleasure than I ever received from any of my conquests. There is Something noble in charming a youth of Such exalted perfediions; and however in fensible we may be when attacked by the impertinence of a fop, or a coxcomb, it would prove a want of the most laudable ambition not to be elated here, where fine sense, virtue, and an agreeable prefon, are so charmingly united.
As Soon as we were Seated in the coach, my aunt and cousins began to be very merry with the ridiculous character of the prude; when, at last, observing that I forebore joining in their conversation, Amelia tapped me hastily on the shoulder j What is the matter? cried she,
with
4-8

with a pretty innocent giggle, at Seeing me start; one would be almost tempted to think you in love. Come, rouse yourself put of this reverie, and let us enjoy the benefit of ypur company. How do you like Lucius? Like him! replied 1 with a blush; why, I don’t know; pretty well. She is thinking, perhaps, of her friends in town, cried my; atint; or is it really this gentleman that employs your
thoughts? added she, addrestlng herself to me; Lucius is a very deserving man; and had he an estate any way equal to his merit, I could not wish you a greater happiness than to have him for a husband. I was not thinking of a husband. Madam, replied I, with as unconcerned an air as postible; but has he only a Small fortune then? Pray what is his fainily? I suppose you can give me a particular account of it? This was spoke with an aching heart oppressed with fears; for I could not help being alarmed at tste very thought of a disparity of circumstances j for tho’ we may have ever So little ambition ourselves, our friends have
«
always a great deal for us, and perhaps are apt
to carry it a little too far. They do not think as we do, and are almost always blind to merit, when unattended with riches : for as they
Sincerely wish us every blessing, they cannot
bear

4^
bear to think of our wanting So essential a one, as that on which depends, in a great measure, the reputation, the ease, the honours of life the most conspicuous and dazzling advantages.
My aunt, without any hesitation, replied. My dear, you are in the right; I have been perfectly acquainted with lucius’s family for many years, and am very able to give you their history. His father was born to a Small estate; but what made this a real misfortune was, that the very means which reduced bis patrimony, gave him difposstions which rendered it the more difficult to Support himself in the narrow bounds that were allotted him. He was educated amidst a round of pleasure, and Saw nothing but luxury and extravagance from his most early infancy. He imbibed the same desires which had almost been the ruin
of his father, and which has Since had the
» ^
same effe61: with refpe£l; to his own family. When he was between twenty and thirty, he paid his addresses to a young lady, who, be ssdes a considerable fortune, and much beauty, had a sweetness of soul, which gave a lustre to every other perfctfiion. This was spread over her countenance, and appeared perfectly con ipicuous in every look and every a(stion. In Short, be Soon gained her affections, and, with
D
the
C


the consent of her friends, married her. Poor
woman! how much do I pity her! He no
sooner got her fortune in his own hands; but.
in Spite of his good fenfc (for this must be al
lowed him) he resumed those cxpenstvc diver
lions which he had before been obliged to lay

fide, for want of the means of Supportingthem,
The pleasures of the bottle, horse races, gam
ing, have ever Since taken up all his time;
while his poor lady is treated with a barbarous contempt and insolence j a cruel reward for
her generosity in giving up her estate to him without reserve. But his Son and daughter,
far from follov/inghis example, shun the con
tagion of his vices as they would a pestilence.
and for their sakes, as well as their mother’s
I shall forbear giving a particular account of his debauches and irregularities. Alas! how
unhappy, how doubly unhappy must Such a pa


nt be, who meets with the keenest reproach
even from the virtues of his children! how mi
ferable must that man be, if he has the least
sense of ingenuity, to find himself the disgrace
of those wshom nature hath rendered dear to
him! an object of shame and pity to his own
offspring! They love the man, tho’ they de lest his vices; and give him their affedllon

tho’ they are constrained to withhold from him
their


9


ri
sir tsteem. But dear Madam, cry’d I, with fie tears standing in my eyes, which t :
nefs of the evening, howevr C r
✓
\
o A t'
pr,
• \ ' X i
'■bfervation, how does t: i adniifuhle lady C port this complicated distr^fs c?n ' ^; any tenderncss for such a LA :
One

aild undoubt
would think acondudl like this ediy extirpate all the foster passions from her breast, and leave no room for anv thin'?’ but hatred and contempt. What other return can be made to ingratitude and^cru ’^y?
■ Hoj my dear, replied my you have
much too mean an opinion of this lady’s good nest'. There are very few in her circumstances indeed who would nothy out int: the createst cktavagancies, and keep no raeafures with a man, \vho behaved vvith To Little regard; o the happiness of his family. They wouia make
or, at least
s

the house, whenever was present, an a! -- most perpetual seen of n roar; would take all opportunities of pubiifhing hi vices and follies. But she, on the contrary, led by the sweetness of her temper, has en deavoured to make him sensible of the basey nefs of his conduct, bv constantly shewino
t
herself worthy of his esteem. She loves him still, in spite of his cruelty; and, T dare say, would think herself very happy if the loss of her
D % estate
52

estate would recover his heart; even if to obtain this blessing they were reduced to a state of meanness and poverty. She has too much good»fenfe not to see that quarrelling, and ill humour, from her, would greatly increase his aversion, and not only widen the breach between them, but be attended with the most unhappy estedls with respeist to their children; stnce it would infallibly weaken their natural authority over them, make them divided, and become partners in their unhappy discords;; especially while they were young, might withdraw their aste6lion from the man she loved more dearly than herself, and who, notwithstanding his ill condudi, had a right to their dutiful obedience. Had this been the cafe, it is cafy to see the fatal consequences that would undoubtedly have followed, not the least of which would have been a want of education, a disregard of all instruction, and their being deprived of those just principles of virtue and honour, which raise the man above the brute, and render him worthy of the character of a rational and Social being : for they would probably have disregarded the advice of those whose quarrels gave them perpetual uneasiness. But this amiable lady’s prudence is visible in nothing more than in concealing the
follies

53
ies of her husband, which she does with as much care as if they were more immediately her own. She endeavours to hide even his least foibles, not only from her children, but from all the world. And I think I may Safely affirm, that no one ever heard her Say an unkind or difrepe<fiful word'of him.
What an admirable chara6ler. Madam, replied I, have you given us of this charming lady! How happy would most women find rhemfelves, if they were as tender of their huf band’s reputations I With what pain have I beard a lady, otherwise of good sense, expatiate for an hour together on the little trifling domestic quarrels, which have happened between herself and her confoi 11 How frequently do we hear married women dwell with a malicious Satisfaction upon those vices, which prudence alone, without the least degree of love, ought to teach them to conceal 1 For a woman always stands in Some degree in the same light with her husband, and she cannot certainly make hirii appear infamou', without throwing a load of disgrace upon herself, for people will always be ready to imagine, that she herself must be guilty of Some imprudence, which she dare not difeover, that gave rise to
^3
she
• «. ^
..... J •


54

9
the vices and injuries she So warmly exclaims gainst.
You are much in the right, my dear, re turned my aunt; and I am very glad to hear you have such just sentiments, stnce I hope they will influence your own condudi, if ever you should be in circumstances to require it.
This conversation, which was drawn out to a considerable length, took up our time till we arrived at my aunt’s. But I must net omit

■one particular, which indeed is too agreeabl for me to conceal; which was, that Lucius and his Sister had each of them a fortune of jocol. lest them by a relation, who died a fev?
months ago.
You see, Madam, with what confidence I lay open the disadvantageous circumstances of a family, in whose happiness I interest rnyself; and can I give you a more convincing proof of the Sinceiity of my friendship; My father, notwithstanding his natural generosity, and tenderness for me, will never, I am afraid, consent to my entering into an alliance so extremely beneath what my fortune may seem to require. I tremble at the thought of dif oblliiing him, and am resolved, whatever it
cost me, To conform mystlf to his will. However. I may be mistaken. Is it possible that
a

SB
a profpecst of my happiness may outweigh all consideration of meaner interests and advantages.
Forgive me now, if you can, for troubling you with these melancholy thought's
which I endeavour in vain to fuppre ss. While this is the cafe, you must not v/oncler at my dulness, which, in my opinion, is jess pardonable than impertinence. Since the onenray pos stbly make you fnaile at icasr, while the other can have no better effeci than to give you the vapours, which if you can escape, after reading this heavy epistle, I ball not de{[)air of Seeing you in my condition; that is, fre • quently amusing yoursdf with a dull walk, a midst dull tree:, dull fields, and talking to your duller self; but heaven prestrve you from Such a change. And may you ever think me, as I really am, in Spite of love, vapours, and melancholy,
Tour fuicere friend.
The moment I had written the first letter of that dear expreltive word friend., by which I would always have you understand, whenever I make use of it, a thousand nameless ideas of affection, Sympathy, and Whatever you can imao; ine else most agreeable and endearing; : I say, at the very instant as I was concluding rny
\

d4
letter

5^

letter, I heard Amelia enter my room, when, turning my head, stj« told me, with a Smile, that the amiable Marilla was just come to pay us a viftt; then immediately forgetting what I was about, I arose with a heart full of joy, threw down my pen, and ran to embrace the lifter of my dear -- ..no, that is too fond; agreeable,
I should say;
well then, of my
agreeable Lucius. We had a great deal of chat upon abundance of entertaining topics, while my desire of engaging the friendship of this lady, made me discover an unusual gaiety; or rather, the friendship I had already conceived for her, threw off all my restraint, and made me treat her with the same open fa tisfadiion, as if I had been convinced that she had already entertained the same friendship for me; so that in a little time we grew as intimate, as if our actjuaintance had been of long
No reserve, no diffidence, no restraint fubfffted between us : all our behaviour was frankness, vivacity, and the utmost extent of Sprightly freedom. You yourself, my dear Charlotte, (forgive me saying lb) had you unexpedlediy cone to see me, could hardly have made a greater change in the Situation of my mind. How swift a progress does friend make, Mien a .peisoo begins with liich
d ilboiitioijs?
standing.
Reiicia to Charlotte.
57
dispositions! A desire f being agreeable is the Teadieft way of making ourselves So.
M y aunt had not only invited this lady to See •us, at our last visit, but hearing me express an extreme destre of enjoying that satisfaction at our return. Sent the next day a letter toher mamma, unknown to me, to desire her to permit her to stay a day or two at our house. A favour that I could not help being highly sensible of; and from which you may judge of the plains she takes to make my stay in the country agreeable to me.
M y new companion and I, not contented
with engrossing almost all the conversation to
ourselves, resolved to take a little turn in the
^clds, to Indulge our young friendship with
discourstng on Some subjects not proper for a
mixed companyand therefore finding an op,
, of leaving our companions, we slipped
into the garden, and from thence went into a
f retired walk, where we might lay open our ' hearts without the least restraint. A gentle
breeze that whisper’d among the trees, the
fragrance of the air, and the awful silence of
the evening, contributed to Soften my mind.
and charm my senses, The
Had nn her file,
Twilight grey


/
5^
  ■
/
While the moon
«*
fi/ing in clouded majejiy — -- -- --
Apparent queen unveifd her pcerlefs Ughi,
And over the dark her fiver tnantle threw.
t0
miltonv,
»
♦
We walked ssowly on, at first discoursing rjpon indifferent Subjedis, till the amiable ma rilla mentioned her brother, and told me he desired her to present his humble refpedis to rae. This gave me an opportunity of asking how he did, and happily introduced a conversation more interesting than can well be conceived. I fancy, Miss, Said J, you must be very happy in the friendship and tenderness of shis gentleman; he Seems possessed of extraordinary merit. Ah, Madam, returned she,
J J Af J
I am more happy than can be imagined. He has an extreme affection for me, and
there Tubfisti Such a harmony between us,, as is very rarely Seen in Such near relations. It is his chief study to improve my mind; and he has taken inconceivable pains in giving me those just principles of virtue, which, I hope, will always instuence mycondudl. I find ia him not only a brother, but a Sincere and af fedstonate friend. We have but one common
interest. He trusts nie with the Secrets of his
heart i
Fslicia to charlotti
Vi
heart; and in short, we are So closely united, that were I unlrappy, he woul5 feel as much for me, as perhaps I should for myself. We!], my dear, replied I (endeavouring still tod’.fcovcr whether fiic was acquainted with his passion)
I could almost envy you the pleasure of enjoying these dear Social de'jghts. I never knew what it was to have a brother; and if I had, I might have been a stranger to your happiness

There arc very few Such brothers an<l Sisters as you. Here I prested her hand with much affcdtion, charmed with the engaging idea fne had 2, iven me of her ov/n felicity. Sire
% j J
was some minutes before she replied, and perhaps was at a loss for an answer; however, at last, recovering herself, Dear Miss, said she,
I assure you it is an addition to my happiness, to ssnd that )mu entertain such favourable fer» timents of us. Lucius would be transported with joy, if he could have heard from your lips that he has any share in your esteem. It js'tiue, he has some merit, a great deal more than I can boast of, Since I owe great part cf mine to him; yet you arc pleased to honour me with your friendship, wshile he here appeared pretty much confused, and, as if at a loss hov/ to proceed, stopped and stood filent: but at last, Iceming to recolle^l herfelst
She
D 6
in stead
€o
i’eit'cta totharlotti
instead going on, she resumed, Had he % fortune equal to yours, he would perhaps be better able to tell you himself those tender fcnfiments which sweh his heart. Has Lucius then, replied I with an innofcent tone, and an air of astonistiment, any Sentiments which he is afraid to diicgver to me? I can Scarcely believe ft, though you yourself are pleased to sell me So. However, 1 haveib just an opinion of his virtue and fine Sense, that I hardly think him capable of Saying anything disagreeable. And may I tell him this f replied Manila in a kind of extasy. Why not? returned it would be a great misfortune, if we were never to be honoured with any company but Such as were upon a level with us, with respedl to
A pride of this kind would be the
greatest curse, since there arc innumerable blessings in kse, infinitely more valuable than all the advantages that can procure us. The charms of a virtuous and upright mind arc intctnal; they constitute a real merit, and rested a glory upexn the poffestbn A glory an comparison of which all other advantages
are Superficial and trifling.
We were here interrupted hy Amelia, who sew us go into the garden, and perceiving us foiae distance, came runninet o rejoin us 5
/



with her we presently returned home. And Marilla leaving us the next day, I have no ithing farther to add, than that 1 am,
Dear Madam,
moji affesiioneitel^
Felicia.
/
LETTER VI
s
Dear Charlotte,
Notwithstanding she stiendiy
congratulations you give me upon the late acquisition of fortune I received by she death of my uncle, I can assure you with the utmost ssncerity, shat it gives me little or no pleasure. This I believe will furpfife you, stnce, as you justly observe, I cannot be supposed to grieve for the loss of a gentleman I have never Seen, and who consequently can’t have endear’d himself to me by any of those proofs of affeflion we may receive from persons we frequently converse with. Nor would I have you believe that I am such a perfect Stoic, as to be absolutely infensible of the grandeur, the riches and honours of life. These, it must be confessed, have ifcducifig charms, and are apt to intoxicate our
minda
\.
\
6i

«
5
3
itiinds with the most pleasing profpetsts of future blhs. They naturally Swell the imagination with high wrought Scenes of delight; nor carr one of my age receive them without feeling Some engaging ideas of that homage, that respectful awe, which So agreeably flatters our vanity, that darling foible of youth! Gold v/hose Sovereign charms are universally felt attracts every heart; all are delighted with the advantages it procures. The grave philosopher too often Sacrifices at this shrine; and the more devout priest, who with Such eloquence liarangucs on Sundays upon the contempt of riches, .and with Such force of expression, exhorts us to contemn the transitory enjoyments of life, those vanities, those baubles, those unsatisfying and pestilential goods, in Spite of all his opprobrious epithets, is still captivated by this magic, and perhaps there are few among them that w’ould look with stich insensibility on the acquisition of ten thousand pounds as I do.
After this long preamble, you pofllbly bevin to wonder what I would be at, and are
o ^
ready perhaps to imagine that I am either very vain, or elfe, that pleafcd.too much vvlth the Solitude of a country life, I am become a sort
of

as
Fflicia to Charlotte.
* of female hermit. But neither of there i s the cafe.
I HAVE not yet excluded all thoughts of
J V
making a gay appearance in life; nor do I find any charms in such a retirement, would deprive me of an opportunity of being Serviceable to my fellow-creatures, and enjoying those Social pleasures, which are Some of the greatest fwcetners of life. But to be Sincere, j this long piece of stander, which may
at first sight appear So injurious to the honour of philofphers and priests (I beg the clergy’s pardon, priests and philosophers I should say. Since the Sacred chara6ier of the gown men demands that I should give them the preference)
Shis piece of standee I say, was only introduced to raise your curiosity.
Ah! my Lucius, can I taste the Sweets of a fortune, which will doubtless be a bar to my happiness, and render it impostible for me to be thine! This is a resteflion which damps all my joy. Alas! how weak is ambition, when compared to love!
T H E day after Marilla left me, I had the pleasure of feeing her brother. He had an air ol unusual satisfaction in his look; and perhaps encouraged by the repetition she had doubtless made him of that converfadon I related in my
last.
64

last, in which I So freely confessed my regard for him, he Spoke methought with less diffidence; •his behaviour was more polite; his manner less constrained; while a thousand tender
nameless graces, which I bad never discovered ♦before, rendered him still dearer to my heart. I now felt myself insensibly awed by his iprefence, and in proportion as he became more
I grew more thoughtful.
I
unconstrained, would gladly have resumed my usual gaiety, but it was impossible; the company of my aunt and coussns became burdensome, and I began to fear their discovering in my eyes that stow of tender friendship, that dear transporting ecstasy, which Swelled my breast. To recover myself from this sweet disorder, I hastily arose and retired into the garden, where I gave •a loose to restedlion wishout fear of being observed; I then began to revolve in my •mind, the danger of indulging a passion, which
would probably prove fatal to my repose, stnee I could not have the least prospect of its ever beingcountenanced bj my father’s approbation. I therefore blamed myself and after a long debate, resolved to use all my endeavours to conquer my growing weakness: but I had hardly formed this resolution when I Saw Lucius
centre the garden, I was then Sitting in an
•arbour
V

65
arbour covered with woodbines, whose flowers embalmed the whispering breezes with a pleasing 'fragrance. He Saw me, and immediately approaching with an air of refpeist, asked me if his company would not be a disagreeable interrupting of my Solitude. I replied, that as my thoughts were only engaged on trifles, it would be no pain to me to place them upon more agreeable fubjeists. But, why, Sir, added I Smiling, have you left the ladies? I ant obliged to return home, said he, and your aunt having this minute received a letter, I took the opportunity while she was reading it, of coming to Uke leave of you.
I HAD now entirely forgotten the resolution
I had just taken to arm my heart with in
fenflbility, and filled with a soft and pleasing
Surprise at the unexpeisted company of ray
lover, even a letter from London could not
awaken the least curiosity, thomdid not doulw:
its coming from my father. Lucius now Sat
■down by me upon a bank of camomile
which almost Surrounded the arbour, when I
cxpeisted every moment to hear him enter
upon the most delightful subject, love; but
though he was more assured, than ever I had
ifeen him, the restraints of a modest diffidence
«
still tied his toague, and made him for feme
time



. time preserve a Silence which i did not care to
interrupt. He opened his lips Several times but quivering with fear, they instantly closed without uttering a Syllable 5 but at last Seemin to collect all his fortitude. Forgive me, Miss
Said he, giving me a look inexpressibly tender
%
forgive a behaviour, which doubtless makes
me appear extremely ridiculous; but it is
Here he cast dov>fn his
impossible to
eyes, with a stgh, while a stood of Soft and
melting ideas Seemed to choke up his vmice; but at length, finding I waited to hear him conclude, he lifted up his head, when I Saw
his face covered with a deep blush, while every
feature was expressive of the most violent
emotions,, How impossible is it, dear Madam
resumed he, with a faltering voice, to give utterance to a passion too tender to be described
and too
too presumptuous to
be forgiven, added he, with a look and tone
that spoke the deepest despair
0
During this speech, which, short as
It
was, took up a confisterable time
I felt all the throbbings of his heart
W
methought. I seemed
conscious of all that dread, that love, and all
those terrible apprehensions, which bewildered
and
his thoughts in a maze of confusion,
made him tremble at a discovery, which, though'
he

67
he resolved to make, he dreaded the effects
[ it might 'produce

But notwithstanding this
fympathetic'penetradon, and all the disturbance it had a natural tendency to create, the very cause of my pain was the Source of the ten derest and most exquisite pleasure;; Softest and most Soothing delight. As Soon as he concluded, he waited for my reply in a kind of agonising suspence; but tho’ I was a moment at a ioss how to return an answer, I Suffered my eyes to express a pity and compassion capable of dispersing his most alarming fears, had he dared to have lifted up his to observe them. But when 1 Spoke, a glance immediately met mine, which instantly brightening. Seemed to discover my meaning before I could give it utterance. I affure you, bir, Said I in a mild tone, that I am not at all disposed to
increase your confusion by ridiculing the pain ■ Sul disorder which has accompanied this too
tender declaration, I am Sensible of your merit, and don’t think you capable of an attempt
to deceive me. Believe me, Sir, I look upon you as my friend, and therefore entreat you to refleist a little upon the obstacles that will inevitably oppose your wistes. However, I freely confess, if that will give you any satis fadiion, that were I at my own dispofal, you
would

€B

would perhaps havo no reason to complain of my Severity.
You can’t conceive, my dear Charlotte, what a Sudden change this obliging reply made upon the countenance and behaviour of my
lover. -- -- -- You are now ready to imagine
that I shall deferibe him throwing himsclf at my feet, while with a flow of rapture, he admires my Superlative goodness, blending his praises with two or three hundred adorables, tranfeendent excellencies, infinite perfe<5lions, incomparablecreatures, and abundance of other
fine things of the same strain. -- -- -- -- But if
these are your thoughts, you are extremely mistaken; for 1 did not hear him utter the least syllable of this Sublime nonfense. He is too good a Christian to deify his mistress, and has too good an opinion of me to think I should be pleased with Such fenfeless homage. In short, in Spite of his humility, his love was incapable of blinding him So far as to make him forget that I was a very woman still, a being of the (ame Species with himself, and therefore he neither debased himself, nor attempted to please me with flattering praises.
After all, I am terribly afraid that I shall be unable to give you any tolerable idea
iof the jcondufion of this affefung seen. The
dreadful
*«
f
...
j..
/ •?


to Charlotte. 6^
dreadful agitations, which werebeford So visible in every feature of his face, were now instantly changed to those of joy; a thick cloud that covered his eyes, in a moment difpersed; they Sparkled with unusual brightness, while gratitude and love, surprise and ecstasy, appeared in swift Succession on his countenance, and painted there all the emotions of his heart. As despair had before kept him filent, the contrary passion had now the same effect;; as Soon as he recovered his voice, giving me a look of tender surprise and delight, O my Fe! cried he, in a most moving tone; and then after a pause of half a minute, O my dear Felicia; have I not offended you? Am I So happy. So exquisitely happy, as to have obtained your esteem? Yes, Sir, returned I, (with an affected sprightliness, and endeavouring at the same time to conceal the tenderness of my looks by holding down my head) I have
a very great esteem for you; but not a greater than I am persuaded you will always deserve. But come, (added I with a sigh, which for my life I could not conceal) let us go to my aunt j this conversation grows too tender. Here I arose without waiting for an an
f
Swer, while he followed me, at the same time begging my pardon, and saying he had forgot
to
ro

A
to tell me, that my aunt, feeing him go into the garden, desired him to let me know that she had Something to Say to me, which she fancied would not be disagreeable. This news put me in mind of the letter he had mentioned, and therefore fearing she might think me long, and perhaps from Some suspicion at Seeing us together, I desired him to make hade before, and tell her I was coming; but 1 had no Sooner made this request, than I stumbled at the handle of a roller wshich reached to the border of the path, when seizing my hand to help me, (tho’ I was in no danger of a fall) he squeezed it with an air of tenderness, and without seeming to know what he did. Suddenly pressed it to his bosom;; me a look at the Same time So inexpressibly soft and moving, that I could not help being extremely affecfed by it; and indeed my cheeks were immediately covered with a blush, nor could I foibear giving a Sigh,
tho’ I endeavoured all along to conceal these proofs of my fensibility. But the moment he took my hand from his breast, confounded at this fuddeii impuife of passion, which 1 believe would not permit him to think of what he did, he gave me a look which Teemed to alk fors

givenefs, and trembling held my fingers with a fearful easy timidity; but finding I seemed not
to
fslicia to criartotte
71
to observe him, and that 1 tlifcovered no marks of resentment, joy again appeared in his looks,
and'he condudled me in the Same manner to
/
the house, w; th an air of ecstasy and delight. Nor, indeed, was I less happy than he; I easily comprehended the Source of every pleasmg impulse, and could with the same satisfaction have preited his hand too, had not the laws of prudence and modest reserve forbid it.'
It is well the prude I mentioned to you in one of my former letters, is not to see this; for these last lines would have made her lose all her patience: but Surely it can be no crime to acfi: frc'rn nature, when virtue is our rule; and I am Sure it is none frankly to confess the innocent transports of our hearts to a friend. But if these natural sensations vere indeed criminal, they soon Suffered a shock that gave me no little pain.
We entered the house with our minds Silied with all the Soothing ideas that could flow from a concourse of the most delightful thousz; hts» when he let go rny hand, and walked in before me; but my aunt no Sooner faw’ northeast, than she cried out wish an air that ducovered her own satisfaction, and, at the same time, let me see that she was pleased at thinking it in her
p©wer to contribute to mine; come, my dear,
said
72

Said she, I wish you joy. Here 'Amelia and Polly paid me the Same compliment, and, at the Same instant, came running, in a friendly transport, to embrace me; when, at last, putting an end to their caresses, filled with an eager curioljty. Why do you wish me joy. Madam? cried I, to my aunt; pray'explain yourself; have you a letter from London? Yes, child, returned she, in an ecstasy, and your father tells me, that your uncle in the East-indies has left you no less a sum than io, oooi. How! added she, are you not pleased with the news! are there no charms in being a rich heiress! what an extravagant fortune are you like to have! — I now put on a forced smile, to prevent my giving her the mortification of
4
feeing how coldly I received what she with reason imagined such a fubje^l of joy. And indeed I could not have behaved otherwise without betraying the dearest Secrets of my heart. At the mention of io, oool. I had been unable to disguise that thoughtfulness, which was suddenly spread over my face. — A painful thoughtfulness that was caused by the refledli on, had it but been Lucius that he had bestowed it upon, O then I might have had a better profpe6t of being happy! Can I receive any
fatisfa^ion from a.circumstance that widens
still

n
still faither the distance between him and nae h Here casting my eyes upon him, I found still greater reason to be filled; «vith dislike at this painful Iplendid acquifitioi^; he stood which his face towards me, leaning upon the back of a chair; his eyes were cast down with a dejedl ed confusion, then lifting them up to the deling with an air of defpjiir, I perceived his face pale, a tear rolling down his cheeks, which he endeavoured to conceal, by hastily pulling out his hankerchief, and walking to the door; when, having staid there a minute to recover himself, he Suddenly took leave to return home.
What various, what strong, what cruel
A
emotions was I now obliged to conceal? But this was not all, I was constrained to assume a gay appearance. Torturing deceit! I never felt a more painful situation, nor ever Sure was an innocent disguise accompanied with Such
I made these observations on lucius’s behaviour, while I Seemed to be reading the letter which mv aunt had given me, and tho’ I began it again as Soon as he left us, I read it over without knowing a word it contained, except my being assured that what my aunt had told was but too true.
You now see, ray dear, what reafoii I have to be dissatisfied with what you have esteemed
Vol. I. E a
cruel angmlh.

)
74

a subje£l of joy. Vain are all the prospe<sts'
of advantage wc fondly flatter ourselves with
from the acquisition of wealth, the alluring
prospects of gay magnificence, the Splendid
appearances of ostentatious grandeur, while
a thousand thwarting and controlling accidents
can damp our highest and most railed
expectations, and change the very objects of our delight into the most painful disquiets, the bitterest Sources of discontent and trouble.
But I find I am running on in a reflection.
which, if I was to indulge it, might carry me
to a tedious length; I shall therefore break off

in time, and conclude with desiring you. Madam,
to form an idea, if you can, of that affection
with which I Subscribe mvself,
Tour jincereji friend
Felicia.
LET T E R VIL
Dear Madam,
T
'HE interest you take in the unhappy
Situation of lucius’s affairs, and your
obliging concern for the opposition you fear
illy father will make to my happiness, are Such
endearing



75
endearing proofs of your friendship, that I could not read your last letter without feeling my breast glow with the most charming mixture of delight and affection; and indeed what higher satisfaction can we feel than that which naturally Springs from the approbation of a friend in an affair So tender, and So peculiarly interesting as that on which we fancy all our happiness is founded. The very passion you approve, is obliged to return the obligation; and it does foin the most effedlual manner, by transferring Some of its tender feelings to the person who thus Sympathises in its dearest sensations.
In Spite of the improbability of my father^s ever being brought to approve our mutual af feffion, I could not think of lostng Lucius, and banishing all thoughts of our future felicity, without a very painful astlidlion. I was willing to see him still, tho’ I ought rather to have avoided his sight as much as possible, since his company could be of no other Service, than to strengthen a passion, too deeply rooted in my heart. The admonitions of reason were of little effedi; I was not disposed to listen to them; a more prevailing impulse made me long to see him; and not hearing’ from him for four tedious days, I wished with the
E 2 greatest
76

greatest ardour for an opportunity of letting him know, that the new addition to my fortune had not made me less worthy of his esteem. This I fancied I ought to do in justice to myself, and form’d abundance of plausible reasons, which made it appear absolutely necessary that I should thus Set my own character in a true light. After the hopes I have already given
him. Said I to myself, can I Suffer him to continue in an error So injurious to my tenderness, and even to my reputation too, as to think me of a soul so sordid, as to be puffed up with the advantages of fupei ior wealth; to think I can retradi the encouragement I have given him,
f ^
and to believe, that elated with pride, I can liow regard him with an air of Superiority and
i
.contempt? Nq, I can’t bear that my dear Lucius should entertain an opinion of me which I so little deserve;; shall know that if we must be Separated, it is not my choice but a cruel force shat renders it necessary. He shall know that I am still the same, shat L am still as fensible of his merit as ever, and that were I at my own disposal, not all the .riches of the universe could bribe me to entertain a thought fatal to his peace and happiness. But 1 how, said I, recolledling myself, shall I hav
ian opportunity of .undeceiving shim? Poes
shy:

^*'
fitlcta TO Charlotts.
77
my own, him. What
he not deprive me of the power of doing my felfjuflice? His fears prevent my giving hint the faiisfa£lion of making him those assurances, which, if I may judge of his tenderness by
would be highly agreeable to then shall I do? Shall I write? — No; I can never consent to that; ifc would be too forward, and discover too great a fondness, for me to make the first advances. Suppose I write to Marilla, and let her know the struggle of contending passions, which fill my mind with such a multitude of various so licitudes, and tender perplexities. Would not that be the same as writing to him, Since she would doubtless show him her letter? But fup pofel desire her to keep it a secret, what then will he be the better for it? he will still be as ignorant of my thoughts as ever; well then, it will be to no purpose to write at all., Here I fixed, and refolvest to leave him ignorant of all that I desired he should know, till a favourable opportunity ostered, that would permit me to discover my Sentiments in a less exceptionable manner; and I did not doubt but my aunt’s friendship for him would soon. lay before me an occasion of doing it, since she was' too much pleased with his company and ma rilla’s, to dispense with their frequently giving
e3
her

 '
her the Satisfaction of enjoying their conversation.
These reflections I made in my chamber, when having at lall resolved to arm myself with patience, I went down, and conversed widi'anielia for fume minutes; but finding a tender melancholy grew upon my Spirits, I sought for an opportunity of indulging it. And indeed when we are in this disposition, the company of the most agreeable friends be .comes burdensome: I therefore gave her the, ilip, and retired into the fields to indulge at; large the Soothing softness of my own ideas.
You smile, my dear Charlotte, at feeing me become Such an unsociable creature, as ter 'f)refer my own company to that of a friend. What a strange thing is love 1 but tho’ I am grown infinitely fond of talking to myself, and Wallcing under the shady covert of oaks and dms, yet I am not so perfect a lover as to hold a difeourfe with these inanimate beings; nor have I ever had the least inclination to carve the name of Lucius upon their barks. I am not yet arrived to that degree of madness;; indeed have I observed, in any of iny rambles, any such lasting marks of my lover’s extravagance.
o
I HAD not long enjoyed my retirement,
when


when I Saw a man crossing the neighbouring fields with precipitation; he at last came upto me, and with abundance of awkward Scrapes, after having aflced my name, gave me a letter, and immediately retired. As soon as he was gone, I cast my eyes around to See if anybody observed me; and full of a curiosity, which would not Suffer me to stay till I got to my chamber. Seated myself upon a bank of turf at the foot of a shady tree, which Sufficiently concealed me, when hastily breaking open the letter, I had the Satisfaction of feeing that it came fropi my dear Lucius : how tender and generous were his Sentiments! how affectionate! — but the confidence which Subfists between us, gives you a right to See the letter itself. I will therefore transcribe it; and L am. Sure if you have the least idea of my af fection for this amiable youth, you wist not be Surprised, if I declare that I was charm’d with it. But without any farther preamble, I found it as follows;
Madam,
“TT is with the utmost confusion that! re“
“sseci upon your being a witness of the
“disorder I discovered at your aunt’s, at what
“©uaht rather to be a fubjecl of joy. My
E 4 hand
\
to


C
“hand trembles while I attempt to apologise
“for mv behaviour. What words can I make
*
use of to discover the sincerity, the ardour, the tender delicacy of my passion, when 1 have “given you Such reason to believe that it is the basest, the most mean, and selfish?? “I have given you Such cause to think, “that I have lost in myself, in the mean con“ “of my own happiness, the tender regard which 1 ought to have for yours? But, O conssder the towering hopes to which “you had railed me I consider the charming, ** the ecstatic flood of joy, which in a full tide “of transporting rapture railed me above my“ “and Seemed to promise a felicity vastly “beyond what rtiy vainest thoughts could have aspired to. Think but of the delight “that .must Swell my heart, at being raised “from the most gloomy despair of timorous ** love, to the unexpedled ecstasy of Seeing my fears vanish : of experiencing all the raptur “ous Sweets of the most charming passion: ** all the joy that could flow from the most “exquisite goodness, the most endearing con“ “and then if it be possible, do but “think of what I must feel, at finding, in “one moment, nry high'wrought felicity
“overturned,
Felicia to Charlottr
Sr
overturned, and myself thrown down from. “the eminence of my aspiring joys.,
“Forgive, dear Madam, my endeavour ing thus to extenuate a behaviour, v/hicb ^‘•has difeovered too great a regard for my “happincss, too, little for your’s. If it has appeared ungenerous and mercenary, nothing, “but Surprise can excuse it, and nothing but “surprise could make me in this cafe guilty of a conduct that makes it necefla'y for me to beg pardon. I have now Conquered myself,, Sincerely congratulate you with the rest of your friends, while, with a heart over“ “with your felicity, I forget my own' miseries. But why do I mention misery f I shall have none while you arc blelted your happiness shall be mine too. All mjp fatisfaffion and delight shall Spring from the
pleasing contemplation of yours. What a delightful Source of the noblest joy! I lose
the too presumptuous title of your lover inw
that of your friend, and may I in that cha
“racier have the Sweet, the dear fatisfa<stion<
“of feeing you as lastingly happy, as my?
“fondest wishes would make you. May your
virtue, with au those numberless..
nameless graces, which make even that and; religion appear with diviner eha^rms, giv e
E 5 ^ yoiii
C
C

C



‘ you all those pure and noble delights, which ‘ it is not in the power of wealth to bestow, ‘ and may both together render you the hap ‘ piest of mortals.
“But whither would my tender imagina ‘ tion carry me? I could dwell for ever on this delightful fubjetst. My heart, warm’d with your dear idea, would endeavour to make you fenstble of what it feels for you. But how vast a disproportion is there be ‘ tween the swell of melting thought, and the flatness of words j they were formed to convey mere vulgar conceptions, or at most emotions less strong and affecting j I therefore want a thousand nameless epithets to express the force of my friendship, the delightful impulses of my soul. But think not, dear Madam, that I have only gained a victory over a weak and feeble passion. Did you know with what a vast excels I have loved, you might perhaps form Some idea of that painful struggle it has cost me to conquer the most ardent affe<stion, and reduce it to the disinterested standard, of that more Sober one, which becomes a friend. But I beg pardon for my impertinence, which I am afraid has bosh tired and
olsehded
  8^
“offended you, and therefore beg leave to
Subscribe myself,
Madam,
Tour fmcereji.,
and moji devoted friend,
Lucius.
As Soon as I had run over the above letter, a Sudden impulse of tenderness made me press it to my lips with a most pleasing ecstasy;; you may laugh as much as you please; I kifs’d, I say, the dear charaffer with a transport of delight; kifs’d the senseless paper; and
having pressed it to my heart, and Secured it,
«
in that Situation I arose and hasted to my chaai
r
her, in order to peruse it more at my leisure. I there read it over Several times, but could not help restedling how much pleasure I lost by that painful awe, which prevented his uttering the melting softness of his heart when in my presence. With what extasy should I have heard Such tender things from his lips, especially when assisted with the moving tone f his voice, and the more elegant language of his expressive countenance. I should then have been all rupture. However, I at last resolved to write an answer, when after having blotted and Scrawled over about half a dozen
e6
sheets
u

sheets of paper without being able to please myself, I was obliged to lay aside my design.
I COULD not divest myself of that softness which his epistle had inspired me with; all my efforts to this purpose proved ineffedlual. A pleasing languor, which hung upon rriy Spirits, gavemefuch afweetlethargyof thought, asren; dered it impostible for me to express any other Sentiments than those of my heart; and they were indeed too tender to be communicated, especially to a lover who wanted my father’s approbation to give a sanction to his passion. The next morning however I was more composed, and therefore wrote the following letter,
which I have not yet had an opportunity oi sending to him.
« Poor Luciu,?,
ERE I difposed to triumph over the weakness of a lover, who in humble strains of Soft complaint, lays himself at my mercy, I should perhaps find subject enough in your epistle to rally your passion, as well as your pretended victory over it. But I have at present no inclination to iridulge Such a savage gaiety, Since it would probably give you pain. The flow of tender fentiraerits, the delicacy of passion, which
“makes
C
W

85

CC

“makes you desire that I stiould still preserve“ “esteem for youy and your disinterested “and warm concern for my happiness, are “so many proofs of your generosity and in“ “merit, that I can’t help feeling a very sensible pleasure every time I restecst “upon them. Your confusion at my good “fortune, which I confess I took, particular “notice of, was too natural for me to be very much offended at it; and indeed I have rather pitied than blamed your distress“ “advantages we receive from wealth, “are as Superficial, I believe, as any we enjoy; and while they deprive us of that Sincerity and unreserved freedom, that openness of behaviour, which persons in infe “rior circumstances receive from their friends, “they strip us of the most engaging Sweets “of life; blessings, which not all the luxury of encumbering magnificence and studied splendour, not all the homage of empty ce“ “and Servile Submistion, can atone “for the want of. You see, Sir, 1 can mo“
“like any philosopher, and you may “postlbly flatter youffelf, that you have “taught me this do<firine. Do fois you please. I bwn my regard for you j and “however romantic the Platonic friendship“
“
C

CC
s6
peticia TO Charlotte.
C
CC
you propose may appear, I readily accept of it. Since that is all that either you or I ought to hope • for. With my Sincere re“ “to my good friend, your stster, I am,
Sir,
Pours. c.
Felicia.
How many tender and affecting Sentiments
was I here obliged to fupprels! I was afraid
of discovering the Secrets of my heart, though
he would doubtless be transported to find that
I was as capable of love as himself, and that
he had inspired me with all that foftness that
could flow from the most passionate affe£lion.
But to you I have discovered all my weakness,
and depend upon your friendship and
good nature to keep it an inviolabe Secret,
especially from my father, whose goodnefi I %
am resolved never to abuse by the least al of disobedience. I am, dear Charlotte, in Spite of love, or any other rival passion,
Moji ftneerely tour’s^
Felicia,
LET
Fflicia to Charlotte.
87
LETTER VIII
Madam,
TH E Satisfa£uon you dlfccvered, at the
little conversation piece I gave you Some account of, in one of my former letters, makes me glad of an opportunity to vary my subject, and leave the tender tale of love for a theme which even one of your gay difposs tion, will, I am Sure, think equally entertaining and instructive.
The day after I Sent you my last, we had the pleasure of receiving a visit from Mr. Stevens, the facetious old gentleman, whole character you are pretty well acquainted with. The afternoon was Spent very agreeably; but before he took leave, my aunt, who still takes all imaginable pains to contribute to tny Satisfaction, by diverstfying my amusements, proposed our making a stiort excurston the next day to a nobleman’s seat, at no great distance from us. I have observed. Said she. Smiling, that my niece appears very much delighted with this part of the country; she seems fond of agreeable landscapes, and my destre of retaining her here as long as possible, makes me willing to gratify this taste, by showing her
Such
58

Such as I don’t doubt but she will think both Surprising and agreeable. Will you, Sir, contribute to her fatisfa£hon and ours, by giving us your company tomorrow. We
j *
are apt to be weary in the company of those we daily converse with; but a friend of your facetious turn will enliven our conversation, and find us confiaat matter for. exercifinaj our
o
wit, and rendering us even more agreeable to ourselves, Mr. Stevens' replied to this compliment in a very handsome manner; and at the same time added greatly to the pleasure f had in profoeci, by saying, that if it would not be disagreeable, he would increase our number by bringing Lucius, and another
friend wdth him, whose company he fancied
*
would make our fatisfacstion complete. When my aunt replied for us all, that we gladly accepted his offer, and that she was Sure the gentleman’s being his friend, would he a sufficient recommendation to us.
The next day before dinner we had the pleasure of Seeing our old friend return, accompanied by a young clergyman his relation, who had just finished his studies at Cambridge, and the engaging Lucius. Our repast was short, and that being over, we fet out in two coaches, Mr. stevens’s, and my aunt’s — But
i


T shall not attempt to give a particular description of all the new and uncommon pros pe<sts which discover themselves in this delightful part of the country, where nature with a liberal hand pours out her favours, and with a profusion of frolic bounty. Spreads a wildness equally extravagant and pleasing. I pass over the beautiful landscapes we drove thro’ in this agreeable tour, for no other rea son than because the view I had of them was too Sudden to render me capable of deferibing them j besides, were it poshble for me to do
it to advantage, their being So perfe<511y extraordinary might reflect a little upon my veracity, and make you imagine that my descriptions were too uncommon to have any real existence in nature.
Are you not Surprised now, my dear Charlotte, that I can all this while forbear Speaking of my dear Lucius, Since there is certainly a very exquisite pleasure in talking of the man we love : but the reason of my not mentioning him was, that as he went in the other •coach he could only give me mow and then a glance, which Seemed to express a trouble some kind of diffidence and fuspence, which I fancied arose from his longing to know what reception I gave his letter, and a fear lest he
had
go
 '
had inferred anything in it that had offended me; At last, however, arriving at the park of my Lord M, we by common consent agreed to walk to the house. As Soon as I stepped out of the coach, I could not help being extremely delighted with the agreeable Scene which lay before us, and which I can’t, for my life, help giving you Some description of. Here the intermixture of dusky groves, and lightsome plains; of woods impervious to the rays of the Sun, which now Spread his cheating beams around us, and the agreeable openings which discovered the bounding deer flying to the covert of the shady thicket, presented a landscape the most pleasingly rural, and worthy the attention of the most curious observer; while we found ourselves at the entrance of a grand walk, which extending to a prodigious length, grew insensibly narrower, till closing in perfpediive, the visto Seemed lost in the grove, out of which arose, as if by enchantment, Several lofty stone turrets, which I afterwards found were part of a magnifi eent Gothic edifice, built in a most extraordinary taste. In short, the whole Scene, notwithstanding its being very delightful, had Such a romantic appearance, that for some
minutes I could think of nothing but castles
and

91
and embowering shades, arising Spontaneously to the charms of music; of the work of fairies, and the power of necromancy.
The company was no Sooner joined, than after Some compliments from the gentlemen in the other coach, and their desiring to know my opinion of the tour we had taken, we fell infensibly into moralising on the various beauties of nature, and comparing the natural conne6iion there is between the exterior arrangeme; its of bodies, which are formed to delight odr senses, and the proportions of internal beauty: the propriety of afition, and the native amiableness of an honest, generous, and upright mind. That as nature had carefully formed the various senses with different powers, adapted to convey delight to the soul, from the multitude of outward beings which Surround us; so she had been no less careful in forming the mind with tastes and passions for dire<fiing its pursuit to objects capable of railing it to the sublimest pleasures; while those pleasures not only result from its purity, but are the very means of exalting it to still higher degrees of perfection and happiness. What a delightful sensation does this azure dome give the eye! Said Lucius, with an air extremely graceful; could
the
92

/
the earth be covered with a more beautiful ceiling, or a finer canopy? what a pleasing verdure clothes the ground, while it meets the limits of the high arch of heaven with intermingling shades? a beautiful carpet for man and beast! But all lovely as this Scene appears, how much does it fall short of the nobler landscape of the mind! The honest man, whenever he pleases to review his actions, and contemplate the situation of his heart, perceives a pleasing ecstasy arising from every instance of his integrity. He sees a Symmetry even more tranfporsingly beautiful than this of nature. A proportion and arrangement of pastions incomparably more pleasing than all the various difpositions of light and shade, of woods and pasture, of murmuring Springs and falling torrents. hoiv vast the difference between the most lovely scenes, which can arise from the modifications of matter in its most complete perfecstion; between the tones of the most melting and harmonious accents, and the nicer and more
■V
delicate sensations of an approving conscience !’ An engaging instance of the divine wifdom and benevolence, in constituting the very means of advancing the happiness of others, the means of procuring the sublimest pleasures

fsticia TO Charlotte.'
9$
fares to ourselves! Very true, rejoined the clergyman with a Smile; but if we compare the divine congratulations of reason, the tranquil sweetness, and internal Satisfaffion of the benevolent man, the patriot, the friend of mankind, with the sordid pleasure of the Successfully ambitious, the tricking knave, the abandoned debauchee, how vast, how im mense a disproportion shall we find in the nature of their enjoyments! enjoyments as ■widely distant as the high wrought pleasures of a God, and the low gratifications of the .most grovelling animal. Well, but gentlemen, replied my aunt, laughing and pulling the clergyman by the .steeve, methinks you .might be So polite, notwithstanding the rapture which Seems to carry you out of yourselves, to allow us a Small share in the conversation. 1 am of the same opinion with you, that as reason alone raises the man above; the brute. So the pleasures arising in the mind from a reafonable.conduct, must be infinitely rfuperior to thofe of a mere fenfualist. But ihow shall we be able to persuade these degenerate mortals to believe so? Tho’ they have no notion of the pure enjoyments of the soul; Jtho’ they are as lost to reason, as, the herd jthat ranges in the field, or wallows in the
stye;

94

stye; and in short, tho’ Some of them have hardly anything of the man, but the outward shape; yet they still assert the dignity of their nature, and would think it an affront to be put upon a level with their brethren of the grinning tribe, tho’ their views, their de sires, their gratifications appear to be the Same, Your observation is very just, Madam, returned the clergyman; for it is not the external form, which. constitutes the man j brutes differ in shape, and were there any particular species of them found out with features, proportions and complexions exa<stly resembling ours, we should without hesitation consider them only as mere animals, while they wanted those noble qualifications of the mind, reason and judgement. Man (the lowest order of rational beings) is only raised above them by his intelledlual faculties; by a light capable of diredling his pursuit, and railing him to the sublimest elevation of passion and Sentiment. Strip him of this, or which is much the same to him, let it lie clouded and obscured, what is he but a grovelling animal, without any of the real and distinguishing perfedfions of human nature. There is indeed this difference in the cafe, that man is a brute by choice, they by necessity :
\
  ’’
95
ceffity: he voluntarily prostitutes the noble powers of the soul, stnks below the dignity of his being, and prefers the pleasures of a mere animal, to the manly entertainments of reason, the Sublime raptures of an angel. How shocked are we at the birth of a monster, especially if it has a likeness in any of its features to one of those creatures, whom we ustly regard as so much below us. We can’t here bear the least resemblance of the brute. Even the most bloody, the most hardened villain is struck with horror at this external depravity in one of his own off spring, and Sickens at the Sight; yet at the Same time he can Support the more monstrous disproportion of his own corrupt and disordered appetites. Really, replied Amelia, V ith a Sprightly air, I think the irrational world are but little obliged to you for your comparisons: were they able to Speak for themselves, they might very justly tell you, that they have no thoughts of luxury, pride, ambition, avarice, and the long train of enormities practised by mankind. The most Savage and voracious animal never kills to encrease his wealth, or to open a way’to grandeur. He stays to fa stisfy his hunger, or in a natural defence of
his
96
 ’
his own life, or of those whom he is prompted by instindl to preserve.
Lucius, perhaps influenced by an Impulse of benevolence, which would not fuffer him to hear this strong representation of the vices of mankind, without feeling Some uneaflnefs, preserved all this while a profound Silence; but finding they had done, he was going to
make a reply, when I prevented him, by say jug, You were pleased, Sir, Some time ago to vindicate mankind, from the charge of a natural depravity and propension to vice; and I must confess, that I was charmed with your reasoning, thovigh what I have now heard, makes me a little fufpecst it. You know, you endeavoured to prove from experience, that sofar from having any natural impulse to lead us on to vice, we had a moral fense implanted in the mind, directly calculated to Spur us on to the most amiable heights of virtue j but how is this consistent with the picture that has been just given, in which, perhaps, the far greatest part of mankind is included? I freely confess, that your sentiments of the moral sense made such an impression upon my mind, that I have considered it as a very favourite opinion, and therefore have
waited
Fflicia to Charlotte.
97
waited all this while in expectation of its being brought into the Subject, with which it Seems to have Some conne6lion; but instead of that, reason alone has been mentioned; though I imagined, that those inward impulses to virtuous a£lions fuperseded the use of it. But both I find are insufficient for the happiness of mankind, Since there is undoubtedly more vice than virtue in the world. It must be acknowledged, miss, Said Lucius, that there is too much reason for the disagreeable representation that has been made of a general depravity. The most Sacred engagements are daily violated; friendstiip and love, the most endearing bonds of Society, are made a cloak to perpetrate the most execrable villainies, the ruin of innocence, the destrudtion of the unsuspebling and honest man. The traitor to his country ast’umes the honourable name of the patriot, and pretends to be struggling for liberty, while he is only paving the way to greatness, in order to riot in the Spoils of his injured fellow fubje<5ts. In short, whole orders and degrees of men Seem infected with the dreadful contagion of vice, and a more than brutal diffo luteness of manners. A dreadful Spetstacle indeed! a shocking depravity that must fill
F every


9*

every generous mind with an affedlionate pity and concern! But let us leave this gloomy, this disagreeable subject, and with hearts warmed with a love of truth and virtue, impartially inquire if vice is really so prevalent, as upon a Superficial view it appears to be; by which means, I hope you will be convinced, that virtue reigns more universally than vice, and that by the constitution of nature, mankind have, even in this imperfe(st state, more real, more exquisite happiness than misery. An estimate of the utmost consequence both to the honour of human nature, and to demonstrate the wisdom and benevolence of that moral being, who is the father of the human soul, and the invariable, inexhaustible Source of the most perfetst and complete goodness.

In order then to form a right judgement of mankind, not the band of russians, not the public or private stews, not the gloomy dungeon filled with guilty wretchedness;; mankind in general must be the fubjeist of our examination. We must extend our views, and glance upon the virtues and vices of all the known world; and here we shall find the
greatest reason for an universal benevolence;
we

99
we shall see with pleasure a noble fimplicify of manners, and an integrity of heart, delightfully conspicuous amidit the barbarism of ignorance, the Superstition of wild uncultivated nations. We shall see the same love of their country, the same tender fensibilities of friendship, the same natural affection, the Same reciprocal endearing offices of Social life, among the far distant unpolished Savages, as among the polite and learned Europeans. Nature even here works strongly; virtue and vice have names in all languages, and so deeply is the image of the Deity impressed upon universal nature, that every rational being has, in general the same sense of an obligation, the same delightful sensations arissng from the consideration of the native and intrinsic excellence of a£fions benesscient, disinterested and generous.
Let us next conssder if the usual manner of forming a judgement of private actions be con ssstent with truth and equity. While the mind, like the eye, can only glance on the Surface of things, we can have but a very narrow view of the Springs and motives which actuate even our dearest friends, and most inti
mats acquaintance. How incapablethenarewe
F 2 to
100

to form a just opinion of the actions of those whose passions, whose inclinations and peculiar turn of mind, we are entirely unacquainted with? We are free in our censures; we precipitately blame the conduct of others; yet, however certain we may think the j udgment is, which we pafs upon their condudi, a little time often convinces us, that our conclusion was formed jiierely upon fallacious appearances; and that we judged of the motive, not from the action it was really formed to produce, but from the false and deceitful light it appeared in to us. A consideration that ftiould kill at once all difpo sition to calumny and censoriousness, the blackest and most ignominious of all vices. Thus it frequently happens, that those a£lions which,
3t first view, seem vicious, upon a more strict examination, appear to be firidily virtuous; and from this experience of the erroneoufnefs of our judgments, and that the truth of the cafe, when discovered, generally leans to th Side of virtue, it will not hire be thought unreasonable to conclude that it is generally So in other instances; and that if the real spring and motive to action was considered, virtue would preponderate, and her votaries be even more numerous than the votaries of vice.
The
C
 ’
loi
The moral fense, Madam, is a taste for what is amiable; that distinguishing faculty of
the mind which makes us sees
sensibly
and strongly fees— — harmony and difeord of a£lions. It is the touchy the ear of the soul; while reason is the eye to regulate the exertions of this Sympathetic faculty. The moral fense feels instantaneously without waiting for the stow delibetadon of the rational powers, to know if it ought to do so : while reason is given us to reign Supreme, to examine the fitness of the objc6l by which we are intendered, and to regulate in what manner we must exert our benevolent offices, so as best to render our endeavours Subservient to the general good and happiness. Thus reason, like a mild and gracious prince, is to direct the will, and give jaws to the passions and appetites, in Such a manner as not only to promote the general interest and felicity of the mind it inhabits; but to diffuse its friendly and benign influences to all its fellow minds: and when this is the cafe, we act in conformity to the most perfeist virtue. On the contrary, vice is nothing else but a misapplication, and abuse of Some right and laudable affections; so evident is it, without arguing from the perfections of the Deity,
F 3 that
102

I
that he has not formed any of his creatures with a vicious biass and propensity.
Here the clergyman Seeing Lucius make a pause, rejoined : The in ention ought always to be the rule of our judgement on the conduct of others;; in this state of imperfection and disticulty, we are Sometimes unable to reduce our wills, however regular, into proper aciion; and indeed the event does but felddih correspond with our difpositions. We ought not therefore to determine a character vicious from one or two bad aclions; nor from the comparatively few abandoned wretches, to pronounce human nature in general abandoned. But by what means are we able to judge of the intention, or to search into the Secret Springs of act

tion? We can’t take in half those minute circumstances that attend them, the least of which might possibly be sufecient to alter our opinion: So far from this, we judge, not according to the temper andfituation of theperson censured, but from our own particular fense of things. Thus, to a generous open mind, a little parst money may appear as a mark of a narrow contracted spirit i but upon examination into the perfon’s circumstances it will be found, perhaps, to be nothing more than a prudent con
cirn
 '
103
cern for the welfare and Support of his family, and sofar from being ablemifh on his virtuous chaiadler, that it maybe an cffe<st of that virtue which it Seems to contradiist. But farther to illustrate this engaging truth, which feemt absolutely necessary to the peace and fatisfa£h onof every benevolent andcompassionate mind, let us conssder that in this state of imperfedfi on, we are no more capable of arriving at a perfe<fiion in vice, than we are of virtue. The most abandoned of our Species, have Some a miable qualities which it is impossible for them to erase; virtue has still Some engaging charms; nor is it possible for any man of common fensc not to feel the force of its attraslive beauties; therefore if deceived by false appearances and delussve profpe£ls of present pleasure, they rebel in one instance, there are others in which they venerate her Sacred laws.
Be Sincere now, my dear Charlotte, and %
confess that I have wearied you with the repetition of this grave conversation. A variety of other remarks were made upon the same fubjests, which entertained us till we arrived at the house;; in pity to you and myself, I shall make haste to conclude, and only Say, that we were entertained with much politeness
f4
by
104

by my Lord; when having drank tea, we drove home, highly delighted with our agreeable excursion; but there is one particular that I ought not to forget to mention, and that is, that before I took leave of Lucius I found an opportunity to give him my letter. He received it with an air of astonishment and con fusion, imagining, I believe, that it was his own I returned j but a Sudden glance of his eye, in a moment difeovered his mistake, when his countenance changed from a troubled pale ilefs to a glowing red. He had not then an opportunity of Speaking to me; but giving me a look Sparkling with joy and Surprise, he retired in Such a manner as discovered his impatience to know the contents. I am now heartily weary; and begging you would pardon the impertinence of your friend, Subscribe my
I'elst
Madam,
Tour mojl obliged
affiwionatt Friend,
Felicia,
LETTER

i
LETTER IX
My dear engaging Friend,
OLD I possibly imagine, that with a
temper So easy, gay and Sprightly, I should be able to make Such a change in your disposstion, as I find my illness has occasioned!! endearing is that tender concern, that pleasing warmth of affe<fiion with which you interest yourself in my disorder, and endeavour to Support my Spirits by Soothing Sympathies, the reviving consolations of friendlhio!
W A
I T is now two months Since I was Seized with a fever; and I have yet hardly strength to write to you; but I can’t forbear making an attempt to remove your fears; by telling you as Soon as postible, that I am at last out of danger I have lately had a near profpe£t of death; but while 1 stood upon the verge of that awft/l state, that undiscovered country, “from vi'hofe bourn no traveller returns, ” I felt my mind calm and Serene, as if charm’d with the inspiring harmony of Some angelic choir; all before me was ecstasy, the most transporting ecstasy!! unutterable, delights bouiidlefs and eternal! But my inter
f5
valj
• -
jo
 '
vals of Sense were short, and disturb’d with pain j I was almost continually delirious; and in these distra6lions of mind incestantly repeated the beloved name of my dear Lucius. I gave him the tenderest epithets; and wrapped in a fond deluston of thought, fancied he walked with me through the most delicious Scenes imagination could paint, uttering the Sofest, the most melting words; to which I replied in terms full of the Same passionate tenderness. The whole family were witnesses of these wild rovings of fancy, which can’t fail of railing Some Suspicions of what I have endeavoured to conceal with the utmost care; tho’ none but Amelia has taken notice of it to me. But how Lucius behaved I am yet altogether unacquainted j nor durst I inquire.
I FIND, my dear Charlotte, that T must break off; a painful languor depresses my soul; my Spirits ssnk, and I am too much fatigued to proceed. If what 1 write is either unintelligible, or more than commonly incoherent, a
trembling hand and giddy head are my excuse;
but

, s

felicia.to Charlotte.
107
but however indifposed I am, nothing shall excuse
me from being.
Dear Madam,
Sincerely Toufs^
Felicia,
LETTER X
Madam,
AM now able to write you a longer letter than my last; a circumstance that gives me the highest pleasure;; glad am I, of resuming my literary conversation with you.
As ioon as I was able to leave my room and receive company, I had a visit from the maiden lady, Mr, stevens’s lister, whom I shall disguise under the name of Prudilla; and indeed I had no reason to be offended at feeing her, stnce I might well bear with her imperti «ence for the sake of the person she brought with her. Lucius, impatient for an opportunity of feeing me, which he durst not even attempt alone, for fear of giving my aunt Some
suspicion of the interest he had in my recovery, had offered his Service to wait upon her, which
F 6 flif
io

she accepting, gave us both the means of indulging by our mutual glances, the tender Sentiments which Swelled our bosoms. The moment he entered the room I could read in his looks, that he had a thousand things to say to me, only proper to be uttered in private. His countenance discovered a joy, which glow’d in every feature; but when he congratulated me upon my returning health, a Sear of saying too much, made him say too little; but however few his words, the air and moving tone in which he uttered them. Sufficiently expressed how much they came from his heart. Need I tell you. Madam said he, (turning his back to my aunt, doubtless to prevent her read ing his looks) that I Sympathise with the rest of your friends in their joy for your recovery? While a ssarting tear and a glance the most charmingly tender, made me at once interpret his meaning, and fancy that he would have said, O my dear! with what transport do I see you again I how vastly does my ex taly at your recovery, exceed the cold joy of these other friends!
Our first compliments being over, and a bundance of questions alked concerning the
nature and progress pf my illness, Prudilla intro
  109
troduced a piece of piivate history, which gave her a charming opportunity of indulging (or a few minutes her prevailing inclinations for de tra<fiion. Have you heard the news. Ladies? Said she, assuming an air of starch’d modesty; really, it is so exiraordinai V that it makes one ashamed of one’s sex. 1 o what a preposterous height of wickedness is the world growii! Positively one is surprised to think of the imprudence of Some people. wquld you think it? Miss Lucy was (I blush for the creature) Pray, Madam, said, my aunt, explain yourself; what of Miss Lucy? Really, rejoined Prudilla, the affair is So indecent, that it is a shock to modesty but to mention it. Well Madam, Said I, rather than offend your delicacy, we
will let Mils Lucy alone, and change the fub jeds. That is kind, my dear, returned she Smiling; she was brought to bed last night; I am Sure 1 am all of a flame now, added she,
— O Madam, cried Lucius,
and the creature -- -
with a dessgn to make her change the fubjeds, that modest blush becomes you incomparably. Here all the company smiled; for prudilla’s cheeks discovered not the least tindlure of her pretended confusion; however, his artifice had no effect. Really, resumed she, bridling back
her
110

her head, and drawing up her lips, a blush does Sometimes become one mightily; which is some recompense for the pain it gives one; but as I was laying, the thing has the impus
deuce to excuse herself by pretending -- -- -- -- At
this moment my physician entered the room, and gave her the mortification of being again interrupted by his asking me Several questions;
but at last takino; a chair, she resumed a third
r O ^
time: As 1 was a saying. Madam, — Pray ladies, cry’d the physician, interrupting her again; may I know the fubje6l of your conversation. Yes, Sir, replied Amelia, our friend here was mentioning a circumstance relating to an unhappy lady that has been deluded, and was brought to bed last night. Very good replied he. Not So good neither, cry’d the prude in a peevish tone. The impudent stut would
excuse heifelf, by saying— — -- -- -- -- she would
pcrfuadc us to believe, I suppose, cry’d the doctor, with a sheer, that the young gentleman, after promising her marriage, and Swearing a thousand oaths to convince her of his fidelity, finding at last all his arguments prove unsuccessful, in a fit of despair drew his sword;; pointing it to his bosom, he pretended
that Since she was So cruel as to distrust
%
his

Hi
his Sincerity, he would give her the last proof of the violence of his passion. Here terrified at this dreadful sight, and melting with pity, she flies upon him, stops his hand, tells him that she is convinced of his sincerity, and will give him every proof of it he can reasonably desire. He now eagerly Seizes the tender moment, presses her close, till she at last consents to purchase his life with the loss of what ought to be infinitely dearer to her than her own. While he in the mean time laughs to find her become the dupe of his artifice; ridicules her foolish fondness, that could make her think him in earnest j and in short, glories in the mbit victory he has gained over her honour. This to be Sure was the cafe, continued he; at least we should be charitable enough to think foin vindication of the poor lady.
WE all Smiled at this piece of raillery, while Prudilla discovered by her unsettled looks, that she was at a loss to know whether she ought to disapprove or commend thi^ instance of the physician’s vivacity; since she could not guess
whether it was intended to ridicule all the ex
1
cufes that could be made in her favour, or to apologise for her condudi. But the moment he had done Speaking, Lucius rejoined with a
modest
/
II

modest unaffcisted air : We outiht not to won'
iv
de, if an artful villain can Sometimes triumph over a mind, who knowing itself i icapable of
- M "*
deceit, can hardly be brought to Iufpe61; another, especially the man she loves, of a guilt the most black and shocking to nature; but that an honest man should be So hurried away by the favour of impetuous destie, is indeed a cafe very extraordinary, and not easily accounted tor. Can a virtuous man be So void of reason, so lost to prudence and the tender delicacies of an innocent passion, as to hazard for a moment the honour and reputation of her he loves? Will he not even distrust himself? Nay, fupposing him ever so certain of the integrity of his own heart, are there not a variety of circumstances which may render it impostible for him to fulfil his engagements? And must not the bare postibility of this damp even the very first idea of a too precipitate pleasure which may be So dearly bought? The least apprehension of ruining she object of his tenderest affections, must Surely give him the most dreadful alarms, and fill his mind with the most dreadful fears, the most terrible con flidls.
turn’d my aunt, that a modest lady can hear a
proposal
And is it^ot equally furprising, re
Fslicia to Charlotte.
u3
proposal of this kind, without being shock’d!
without looking into the gulf of mifeiy and
ruin which lies before her 1 without trembling at the dangers which Surround her! without
imploring the divine assistance, and resolving
to lose her life, rather than taint her virtue, or
Surrender her honour upon the fairest promises
! but alas! we frequently see people acst
without thought, and unintimidated by the misery
of those, who have fallen into the same Snare, precipitately rush upon their own de
strudtion. A promise of marriage is the usual
bate; but this unhappy lady’s story ought to convince every one, that even in the nearest prospect of that union; it is the highest degree
of folly and madness, to drop the guard of innocence,
and allow her intended husband liberties
inconststent with decency, and the reserve
of a modest prudence.
It is a great misfortune, rejoin’d Lucius
with an air of candour, that in this cafe, a false
step (which may possibly proceed from nothing
more than imprudence, or a too easy confidence) should be attended with such
dreadful consequences with refpe6b to the ladies : and one a£iion throw an indeliable
stain on the fairest charaeffer; while another
person of an infinitely worse difpolition.
may
. ►
\ >
114

may indulge the rancour of her heart in Sporting with the honour and reputation of thousands. mifslucy is a lady poflefied of So many virtues, that if the cafe required it, every one, 1 think, would be glad of feeing reason to believe her less criminal than she may appear at first view; but if I am not mismlormed, there is no need of wishing for reasons to excuse her conduct. A variety of extraordinary circumstances are in her favour : her modesty and virtue have stood the Severest shock; and if it be thought that she has here lost all pretensions to them, it ought to be considered too, that the day she forfeited them, appeared to her, and to all her friends, the last of her freedom. The next day was to have given him that right to her person which love, a reciprocal love, had constituted long before. She was his by obligations the
obligations that can only be confirmed and rendered legal, by the assistance of the magistrate or priest. They thought themselves Secure in each others fidelity j they fancied nothing could prevent the happy ceremony from being folemniaed; but, alas I life itself is precarious; that very night he was Seized with a malignant fever, which tho’ it carried him off in a few days, in all his
intervals
most sacred and binding
 ’
115
intervals of fenie he acknowledg’d his engagements, and even in his last moments he called her his wife, and confirmed the right he had given her in his will, to posies his estate, by frequently expressing'hi« desire of having it faithfully executed. How! cried Prudilla, in a lofty tone of authority, do you pretend to vindicate the creature? If Ihe has lost her reputation, it is no more than ste deserves. I would have no mercy on Such impudent confident things. Can any punishment be great enough for the sluts who are such a disgrace to the modesty of our sex?? should be all burnt alive, or hang’d at least— — — — Madam, replied my aunt, hastily interrupting her, indeed you are too Severe. It must be confefs’d indeed, that both she and her lover were much too blame : they were certainly guilty of the highest degree of imprudence and folly; but you ought to consider too, that virtue does not comift in the loss of humanity and good manners. I was present when the young gentleman expired, and was witness of a Scene that I shall never forget as long as I live. The very remembrance brings tears to my eyes. A few minutes before he breathed his last, his Senses, which had been long disturbed.
ii

turbed, returned, when calling for his dear wife, Lucy, who Sat near the bed drown’d in grief, and fatigued with her constant watching, started from her Silent sadness, while her impatience to know what he had to say, suspended for a moment the falling tear. He pressed her in his weak and trembling arms, and endeavoured in the most endearins: manner to

Enable her to Support his loss; Said the kindest, the most astedting things; till at last his countenance brightening into a placid serenity, he listed up his eyes to heaven, and still pref stng her hand. Seemed to make her the subject of Some ardent petition; but he had no Sooner ssnithed his Silent ejaculations, than fixing a most tender look upon her, he cried. Adieu, my Lucy, my wife; when hutting his eyes,
he sunk upon the pillow and expired, -- -- -- -- But
what words can express the unhappy lucy’s despair?? fainted away upon his lifeless body; her check lay upon his, and equalled the mortal paleness of that it pressed. I assisted in carrying her out of the room, and recovering her senses;; they no Sooner returned, than (fad essedi of the most violent grief!) her tears, her incessant tears were stopped; and
file gave way to a Silent Sober melancholy,
infinitely'

I IT
infinitely more terrible than the strongest impulses of raging despair. Alas! cried Lucius (in a tone that plainly expressed the compassionate dispofition of his heart) how much is this poor lady to be: pitied! but would not her distress, her shame, her infamy have been greater, if her grief had Sprung from his infidelity rather than his death? She nowjuftly laments a man eyery way worthy of her esteem and affection;; memory is still dear to her; his yirtues are a pleasing subject of melancholy delight, and Soothing pain. But with what agonies of rage, vexation, and madness, would she have Sustained the shock of finding the man false on whose fidelity she had reposed her honour I with what mortifying inquietudes would she find herself contemned by him she loved! yet the guilt would in fact be his; the folly and imprudence hers. Confeious of the purity of an innocent heart, her Severest reproaches must fall upon the guilty villain, the barbarous betrayer of her peace and happiness, and not immediately on herself. Yet how vastly different must be the refle6tions of a lady in these circumstances, from those of the felf deteited prostitute, the abandon’d wretch, who from avarice, ambition, or guilty
desire.
iis

fire, covers herselfwith eternal infamy and reproach; with irreparable loss of honour j with
the aversion of all the wife and good; with the Silent, but infinitely more dreadful upbraid
ings of a giiiity conscience;; horrors of remorse, and that agonising dread which accompanies a confcioufhefs of the divine displeasure,
doubly terrible in all her views of futurity! What Superlative wretchedness!!
imagination paint any diftress equal to that which thus arises from the racking perturbation of a mind ashamed of itself?? can all the boarted advantages of wealth, pride, and successful ambition (the trifles for which the tranquil Sweets of innocence are forfeited) Support the Spirits finking under Such a flood of complicated misery f
Here Lucius concluded, and Some ladies coming in at the same time, the conversation
took a different turn. I leave you now, my dear Charlotte, to make what refledfions you please upon what I have here related; the company Soon broke up; but 1 could not See Lucius retire with the rest, without feeling an uneasiness that let rne know the excest of my passion However, he had the address in parting, to slip the following letter into my hand
unper
  119
unperceived; he delivered it with an air of tenderness, saying with a low voice. Since I am not permitted. Madam, either to send or Speak to you alone, forgive the absurdity of my being my own messenger, I made no o there answer than willing him a good night, and as Soon as he was gone. Seized the first
opportunity of retiring to my chamber, when Securing the door, to prevent my being Surprised, I broke open the Seal, and read the following lines.:
“Dear Madam,
F you knew with what an excess of grief I have lamented your illness, while I considered you on the borders of the grave, ‘ you might perhaps form Some idea of that ‘ Sweet, that transporting joy, with which I ‘ find you returning to life, and all the fatif ‘ factions of health and ease. I can’t help ‘ regarding your physician as my dearest ‘ friend; I could hug him to my bosom for ‘ contributing to your recovery, at the Same ‘ time that I bless the unseen hand of provi ‘ dence, and pour out ray grateful heart to
** that mosc gracious being who has heard my
prayers,
<
C

120

‘ prayers, who has beheld with compaflioti ‘ my incessant tears amelia’s friendihip for ' my Sister, and the concern they have both in ‘ all that relates to you, have procured me an ‘ opportunity of learning every day the state ‘ of your difoider, without my running the ‘ hazard of discovering my passion to your ‘ aunt, by a Solicitude that would doubtless render me rufpecded. Yet what a multi ‘ tude of hopes and fears has this correfpon ‘ dence given I in a Swift Succession they have ‘ raised my Soul to Sudden rapture, and then ‘ Sunk me down into the most dreadful de ‘ Spair! Sad vicissitude! All my happiness ‘ Seemed to depend upon your life; and while ‘ that was at stake, a prospe6l of inevitable ‘ misery lay before me. All joy Seemed de ‘ partings A Solitary sadness, a dreary gloom ‘ hung upon my Spirifs, and hovered round ‘ the various beauties of nature; they had no ‘ chaims for me. Not wealth nor titles, With ‘ all their Splendour, could have calm’d the ‘ anguish occasioned by your loss. While I ‘ thought that the most lovely form, and the ‘ fairest mind were near being Separated, my “heartstrings were ready to burst, as if the “very Seat of life and vital heat was going to
“be

12 t
be torn from my bosom. Religion only had power to moderate my grief, and by “its reviving consolations disperse the dark“ “clouds which hang about my Soul.
“But how shall I be able to describe the “Sudden ecstasy, the transporting rapture which fill’d my breast, when I heard that ** you were out of danger? I ficken’d with “a Sweet excess of delight— — alas! to what purpose are these involuntary transports?? do I place all my happiness“ “Seeing and hearing you, since no Sacred ties will ever bind us together, and Secure the continuance of these innocent enjoy merits? Accept however of my warmest “congratulations, and while my happiness depends entirely upon your’s, believe me to be the sincerest and most affectionate of your Servants,
/
Lucius,
vol. I.
o
I coij
122

I CONFESS, my dear friend, that I could not read this letter without tears, and indulging Some refle<suons on the unhappiness of my iituation; but as it is time to conclude my long epistle, I shall pals over these unquiet thoughts, and subscribe myself,
Tour mojt hearty friend
Felicia,
LETTER XL
ROM Amaranthine bowers, and embrowning shades; from .flowery lawns,, and all the stlent solemn Scenes of peaceful innocence and harmless love, thy friend Felicia greets her other Self, her dear, her much loved Charlotte.
D NT you think now, my dear, by this beginning, that I am tolerably well read in lomance, and have drank deep of the Spirit of those extraordinary performances. At least I
think I .ought to have Some knowledge of them. Since I seem to be writing one myself. My plot now begins to thicken; and I shall certainly, if ever these letters come to light,
be xonsi4ere4 in Some .future rhyme,, as a little
heroine

123
heroine, while Lucius will have an undisputed % ^
claim to the honour of being the hero of my story. He has now a very formidable obstacle to encounter with, before he can even hope to arrive at the height of his happiness : but you need not be frighted, here are no fiery dragons to conquer, or enchanted castle to storm; my pastoral adventure will furnish no Such prodigies. I will therefore leave these marvellous events to the doughty wonder working champions of ancient date, and content myself with sticking close to truth and nature; and don’t doubt but that in the rustic Simplicity in which I Spend my time, I shall furnish a history at least as entertaining as theirs. And indeed whatever name is given to my story, whether of rural adventures, novel, or romance, I should be very well Satisfied, though all the world thought it fiffitious, might I at last (which I hardly dare hope for) have it concluded, like the most celebrated pieces of imaginary Scenes of love and gallantry, in a happy catastrophe.
As I am very fond of my cousin Polly, who is one of the prettiest little creatures you ever Saw, I frequently amuse myself, and divert her, with gathering flowers, making garlands, and sometimes placing them in her hair, oradorn
G %
mg
H

ing her head with a wreath, as agreeable for its odours, as for the intermingled lustre of its glowing colours. You can’t imagine, Madam, bow charmingjy the dear child looks when thus adorned; you would be apt to take her for some little Sylvan deity, or one of the inhabitants of the Skies. The wearher'being extremely fine, we went yesterday morning into the garden to divert ourselves in this innocent manner, when having Spent sometime in our childish pastime, a desire to indulge at large my own reste£lions, made me leave mv young companion, and retire into a neighbouring field; there I Seated myself on a rising bank, beneath which ran a stream that, flowing Swiftly with a gentle murmur, drew my attention, and fixed my eyes upon the various coloured pebbles which shone through the li ■<juid crystal. But sho’ these trifles engaged my looks, my heart was fixed upon an object infinitely more important; I was thiifking of my idear Lucius, and enumerating in idea not only his several perfedlions, but recollecting all the fine things I haa heard him say : and could I be entertained in a manner more delightful? But I had not long indulged these pleasing contehiplations, when I was interrupted by
itny Isttle prattler, who feeing nie ai a distance,
: came
Fflicia tot Charlotte.
f
i25 --
p
came running with her hands full of flowers. 1 was then So buried in thought, that I did not see her till file was almost come up to me, when calling: me to look at her treasure, and to observe Some carnations stie herself had been placing in her hair, I was so vex’d at being disturb’d in my pleasing dreams, that 1
could not help answering her a little peevishly.. destring her to leave me. She was justly surprised to see my humour so loon chang’d, and with a voice that Spoke her out'of breatff with running. Said, She wonder’d how she had made me angry; but that she would not leave' me till I had forgiven her. The tears now trickling down her rosy cheeks, made me in a moment ashash’d of my Sudden ill nature. I' took her in my arms, and fondly kissing her,, told her I only destred to be. a few minutes a -- lone, and begg’d she would tell me what she vranted. You told me, said she, resuming her usual sweetness - these flowers made me look very pretty j. won’t they. Madam, make you look pretty too? I wanted to make you as fine as you made me. won’t you let me dress your head? I could not help Smiling at this question; but upon her perststing in her request, I at last consented;; fancying no jsbdy could polstbly see me, resolved to do as
G
'N
126
she defined, and afterwards lead her through the garden, to divert my aunt and Amelia with her childish frolic. I therefore took a libbon out of my pocket, and enamelling it with the brightest colours I could select from those she brought me, bound it round my head; when an impulse of curiosity made me hastily go nearer the brook to place it to advantage, and see how well it became me. Here I stay’d sometime with my eyes fix’d on the watery mirror, holding the beauteous child by her band, and observing the different effects these fantastic ornaments had in the countenances of our shadowy images. I was now .in a most gay and lively humour, and lifting up my eye? with a cheerful Smile, was going to propose our return home, when I was struck with the sight of a well dressed gentleman, who stood gazing upon us from the opposite bank, and who had doubtless been a witness of all my fooleries. Innocent as my amusement had been, I could not at first recover from the confusion and disorder this fpefiator gave me. However, I turned hastily, and taking hold of'miss polly’s hand, began to move towards the garden, at the same time pulling off my various coloured tiara, threw it to the ground; when the stranger
having
Fslicia to Charlotte.
12
7
having stood still for a moment, Suddenly leapt from the opposite bank, basted after me, and Seizing the hand that was at liberty, > after a deluge of compliments, which discovered at least his good breeding, conduced me home. My aunt immediately by her behaviour let me see that she was far from being displeased with my companion; she treated him with the utmost refpe£i:, yet endeavoured frequently to dive into his thoughts, by examining his countenance with a Scrupulous and steady inspection. She Seemed to penetrate his very Soul; not the least gesture could escape her notice: yet she was So cautious in these
piercing regards, that it was impostible for hkn
(
to observe them; and indeed her looks all the while exprested a fatisfadfion that let me See that whatever discoveries she had made, they were far from being disagreeable to her; for whenever my eyes met her’s, I could easily discern an affedlionate kind of joy, which seem’d to arise from the tender glow of a warm heart.
THE gentleman behaved all this while with the most perfect ease and freedom, and without appearing under the least constraint by the old lady’s presence, entertained me with the confident freedom of an old lover, who thinks
%
G 4
h
C

228

he has a right to our tenderness and respe£lr. Nay, he told my aunt, even in my presence, the Situation in which he found me; the manner in which he said I attracted his eyes and heart; informed her of the minutest circumstance relating to my behaviour; deferibed the flowers which adorned my head j drew a comparison between them, and (to use his own words) the more lovely and altraifiive beauties of my cheeks. Nor was my shape, my
V
air, forgotten; he took me for Some goddess j I could certainly be no less than one of the immortals. Here he discovered all the heathen mythology he had learned at School; protested that he mistook me for Flora; and lest I should be too Simple to understand the honour that was done me by this comparison, told me that she was one of the most charming of all the goddesses;; could be equalled in beauty by none upon earth but me. In short, he even cflered to go himself and fetch the flowery wreath that So much became me; assured us, that the first moment he saw me, was the last f his liberty; and asterted, that if I would consent to be his, he should ever after our marriage oblige me to perpetuate the remembrance of that happy day, by wearing upon it a like blooming crown.
Thus
I
/
  i2, >
Thus he ran on for a quarter of an hour together, without giving either my aunt or me an opportunity of speaking a Single syllable j r he was all life and gaiety, and attempted to divert me at the same time that he strove to find a way to my heart. He thought it im ppffible that I stiould be insensible to the force of flattery, and therefore attack’d my vanity with inccflknt praises. One moment he feem’d*^ melting in tenderness; but then immediately recovering himself, as dreading ray taking an
r
u...
advantage of his weakness to use him ilst laugh’d at his own passion, and Seeming to triumph over it, turn’d it into ridicule, with a vivacity accompanied with abundance of wit and humour In short, he is the most sprightly unaffe£ied creature you ever beheld; for ■ even asteistation in him must lose its name;,.. everything is natural, genteel and easy.
But I had not been long in his company. when my aunt, fancying that she might possibly be a restraint to us bosh, took an opportunity to leave the room. However, his be haviourwas still the same, he smil’d and look’d, grave; he sigh’d and laugh’d; he sang a Ian guishing strain, the next moment hum^d a ri -- gadoon, and capered about the room; but yet it was not difficult to discover that though his
•
G 5
temper

/
120

temper naturally inclin’d him to be gay. It would have been now much more easy to him, and doubtless more pleasing too, to have as sum’d a behaviour more ag reeable to the litu
o
ation of his heart. In Spite of all his efforts, love still had the mastery, and methought his stghs appeared much more genuine, than those starts of airy sprightliness, under which he endeavoured to conceal them. He would have me constder him as a lover, though he was unwilling to appear with the languishing tenderness of one that felt the full power of that passion. Yet in his very attempts to show his liberty, he rattled his chains. I am Sure you would have laugh’d as heartily at his behaviour as I did; for indeed he is one of the most odd, fantastic, agreeable fellows, that ever assumed the tender name of a lover. But as I have given you lucius’s picture, you may expert
that I should give you his loo; take it then as follows :
He is pretty tall, and of the just mean between too fat or too lean; his shape is genteel and easy;; air, that of a fine gentleman who has seen the world; his complexion fair, his forehead large, his eyes brisk and full of fire; his nose of a moderate size; his mouth rather too wide, but render’d agreeable by a
constant



constant Smile which Sits on his lips, and dimples in his cheeks; and as to his chin, I assure you, it is not less regular than any other feature in his face. But I must not forget to mention his dress, which in this rustic part of the country appears very Singular: everything about him is of the newest fashion; nor does he want any ornament to Set off his perfom to advantage. This is an exact portrait of the gay, the janty, the confident Mellifont; and by the description I have already given you of him, you will readily imagine that poor Lucius has a very formidable rival.
After having diverted me for near two hours, with a thousand agreeable extravagancies, he bid me adieu; but before he left the bouse, had a private conversation of Some minutes with my aunt, who, as Ibon as he was gone, came to me; when Seating herself in a chair close to mine, she told me with a smile, that the gentleman had been begging her leave
to continue his visits;; she knew him to be of a good family, and possessed of an estate of three thousand a year; and added, that if he was agreeable to me and was really 'as much in love as he pretended, she thought I could not make a better choice. I reply’d with a good deal of truth, that however diverting his
G 6 company
\
1j2
b’elicia to Charlotte.
company had been, he had not yet made any impression upon my heart, and that agreeabl as his levity might render him to other women, I could not help thinking that a lasting happiness must be built upon a more solid foundation, than the airy flights of Such a giddy volatile temper. I must confess. Madam, Said I, that his person and behaviour would render his addresses acceptable to the far greater part of our Sex, who are perhaps too easily pleased with a gay appearance. His confidence might, in their opinion, appear heroic, and carry along with it irresistible charms; but I shall northeast think a man has any degree of tenderness for me, while I have not the power to Soften him too much, for him to discover all his fpright liaefs in my presence. My aunt finiled at this reply, and only answer’d, That she would not advise me to anything contrary to my inclinations; and Amelia and Polly coming in at the same time, we dropped the fubje^l.
I HAVE nothing further to add, than that
I am.
My dear Charlotte,
Tour moji obedient Servant
feliciai
Felicia to cha^rlotts. 133
LETTER XIL
SHALL not pretend, my dear Charlotte; to decide whether the extraordinary assurance of Mellifont, or the diffidence of Lucius, is the most excusable quality; they are both
certainly very great foibles when carried to excess. But as confidence and folly are nearly allied. So modesty is a weakness, if it Suppreiles a man’s virtue, and hides it from the world; if it fetters his mind, and restrains his actions when he desires to exert himself. But if Lucius appears even upon a. Superficial view Superior to Mellifont, notwithstanding the thick shade,, which instead of showing his merit to advantage, obfeures Some of his brightest excellencies, how much more amiable must he appear than that gentleman, if it be considered that his good qualities are Set in the most glaring and striking light, and that his very follies are some of his greatest perfe6lions I
I TOLD you in my last, that amelia’s entering she room put an end to the conversation.
I had with my aunt upon the merit and fortune of Mellifont; but I forgot to add, that upon our telling my cousm of the visit I had
received from my gay Spark, I perceived that
she
134


✓
she chang’d colour, and immediately her countenance, which at first had all the marks of ease and good-humour, discovered the evident symptoms of a thoughtful disturbance; nor should I perhaps have called this circumstance to mind, which I then took but little notice of, had not her behaviour Since that time a wakened my attention, and quickened my apprehension.
Tho’ her temper is naturally rather grave than Sprightly, yet I had always remark’d in her a most agreeable evenness of disposition, a flow of Serene and tranquil Spirits, which gave an engaging chearsulness to her behaviour, and rendered her equally acceptable to others, and happy in herself; this was an observation, shat her whole deportment had con firm’d, ever since I knew her; but now that placid Serenity, which Sweetned our conversation, and greatly enhanced the pleasures of our mutual friendship. seem’d interrupted; she
sought for opportunities of being alone, and discovered a reserve, which I really thought her incapable of I have had a visit in form from Melhfont almost every day. Since the date of my last. He comes in his coach, with a pompous equipage, and drelted with as much Splendour, as if he had prepared to appear in
she

135
the drawing-room on a birth night, while every visit Seems to increase poor amelia’s discontent, and coldness to me.
Two days ago as I w’as taking a turn in the garden, I found her Seated in a pcnfive posture in a painted alcove, at the end of an alley the
most obscure and retired. She seemed lost in
!
thought, and leaning her head upon her hands, with both her elbows fixed upon the table, was doubtless indulging Some Serious reflections; but whatever was the fubje6t of her contemplations, the rusting I made amongst the leaves of Some bows, which, for want of cutting, crossed the path, and which rebounded back as I forced my way through them, soon made her lift up het eyes; when coming towards me. My dear, cry’d 1, you will think me, perhaps, guilty of ill manners, for being So rude as to intrude upon your Solitude; but no matter j my affection for you gives me Some right to your confidence; and therefore, in the name of friendstiip, I desire you will either make me as grave as yourself, or permit me the pleasure of forcing you to partake of my gaiety. Come, let me know the cause of this change. — Some doleful ditty! tale of love!
Some tender
Come, come, out with it. Here taking hold of her hand, I began to lead
her
15^

her back to the alcove, when turning her head away, with an air of unaffeisted coldness, Ihe gave a deep Sigh, and then begged that I would be so kind as to let her go, stnce she was in an ill humour, and was very unwilling to infest me. Nay, Amelia, Said I, 1 have no right to detain you against your inclinations; I thought Tmight be So happy as to divert you. I hope you will not think an unseasonable attempt of this kind unpardonable. No, my dear. Said she; you are extremely obliging but as I shall be but a disagreeable compamon, I choose to retire : At this she left me, when standing still for a moment, to think whither I should ramble, 1 Saw her returning. She begged pardon for her ill manners, and make ^ jng Some apologies, alk’d at last,. How I lik’d Mellifont, and what I thought of his addresses? I laugh’d at her question j and readily replied, that I thought him a much' more agreeable companion than a lover. Nay, my dear Felicia, Said she, with jealousy in her eyes, donst
dissemble; are not you charm’d with his company?? as a lover, I assure you. Said I; he is indeed one of the most agreeable impertinents
I ever beheld'; bat. Why this question? Have you any private interest it), view, that
you ask it? Come be frank now, and if dt
will
Felicia to Charlctte.
^'3.7
will be any Satisfaction to you, I here resign all pretensions to his heart. I should be very glad of being excused from the trouble of receiving his visits; though I can’t deny, but
there is a pleasure attends the homage of a
« '
man of his humour and appearance; they Sooth our vanity, give us an air of importance, and flatter our prevailing desire of making captives. But this is a very ill natured pleasure, rc' plied Amelia, with Some warmth; and I thought you had too much good fcnfe, as well as humanity, to indulge it at the expense of the ease and happiness of a worthy gentleman : besides it is dangerous Sporting with the teni derness of a man of Such merit; for while you hover round the flame, you may possibly burn your wings.. No, never fear it, returned I j
I am in no danger, I assure you; but if he will pay his addresses to me, how can I prevent it? Am I answerable for his folly? I have used no arts to retain him; and indeed have been So far from indulging my pride at the expense of his peace, that I have endeavoured as much as pofltible to make him lose all hope of obtaining my affeffiion. amelia’s countenance now clear’d up, a riling joy Sparkled in, her eyes, and gave an agreeable flush to her cheeks; and in short, she had all
that
138

that air of ease and satisfa£fion which our looks commonly express, when we feel our hearts eased of a burden which distorts its tender fibres, and gives us the most racking pain; but presently assuming an air of foftness, she confessed with a low voice, (as if dreading, even in that retired place, a witness of her melting passion) that we loved the dear en gauging Mellifont; but she had no Sooner eas’d her bosom of this important Secret, than a rus tic blush, with all the marks of a confusson which Springs from innocence and artless Simplicity, overspread her face, and made her hang down her head; but at last recovering herself, she told me she had seen Mellifont a few days before he paid me my first visit; that she was charmed with his person, but did not perceive that he had made any extraordinary impression on her heart, till she found that he paid his addresses to me; when love, jealousy, and despair, contributed all their force to render her unhappy. She then assc’d me with a Smile, that demanded my confidence. If I was less fensible of the merit of Lucius, than she of Mellifont? and told me. That suspe<fiing it while I was Sick, from the tender things I Said of him, she Sent to let Marilla
know, that if her brother had a real affection
for

139
for me, it would be then imprudent to continue his visits j and that having learned from her friend the violence of his pafiion, she had used all her art to prevent giving him the uneasiness he might feel at finding me in the company of his rival. sensible of the advantages I received from her prudent precaution, and reflecting that my aunt would probably without her assistance tp keep it Secret, have been by this time fully convinced of my tenderness for Lucius, I returned her my Smcerest thanks. We then talked of his perfections, delightful fubjecv! in which she Seemed to strive to outdo me, in giving him the praises due to his merit; while the reserve, which for Several days had subsisted between us, now ending in a mutual open confidence, bound us closer to each other, by showing her the folly of her groundless distrust, and strengthening and enlarging my esteem for her, who, in the midst of her jealous fears, took care of my happiness, and provided against the difeovery of a Secret, on the concealment of which all my future felicity depended. We embraced with the utmost astection, and made reciprocal promises of treating each other for the future without disguife j the very appearance of which was now below the dignity of our friendship.
/

140

Ship. Our hearts were to lie open, and not the least circumstance relating to the happiness of each other concealed. What a pleasmg in<r tercourfe of tender passion I All jealousy being now removed, she strove to increase the ardour of my love for Lucius, by relating a thousand circumstances in his favour; while her praifes gave me a delight infinitely Superior to any flattery bestow’d upon myself. Wrapped up in the Soft satisfaction she gave me, I gratefully return’d the obligation, by mentioning all the agreeable things that could justly be Said of Mellifont, to which she listncd with equal eagerness, and the same excels of Soothing, pleasure
> •
now walk an hour every day to talk n the Same fubjerst; and I don’t believe we cither of us find our delight grow lest by the repetition. Love is an inexhaustible theme;, it furnishes our conversation with the most delicate, refined, and exquisite ideas; it raises us above ourselves, and not only inspires an elevation of sentiment, but gives us a very noble and shblime manner of expressing what it dictates; sh that were you to bear us on this melting subject, you would smile at our die? tion, and the tender cadence of our periods; and be much more ready to take us for a
ccupjec
Pelicia to Charlotte.,
141
icouple of theatrical heroines, rehearsing the arts of two languishing princesses, than for rural nymphs unaccustomed to high flights and lofty strains, whose only perfe<stion con
sssts in being pastoral lovers. Sometimes we
%
walk for two minutes together in eloquent ss lence; then, after a ssgh or two, still more eloquent, we burst into Some moving complaint on the Severity of fortune, in making her love a person in wealth her Superior, and me a youth unblest with the advantages I enjoy.
Thus I employ the time of lucius’s absence in a way most agreeable to that esteem and affection I shall always have for him; while absence, instead of removing the tender Softness of my heart, renders every thought of him still dearer to me, and presents him to my mind in every new charm which fancy or love ican invent.
I
But I woiild not have you imagine. Madam, that we Spend all our time in these useless lamentations; we have read novels, roi.
• ■ *
rtiances, and plays, and have therefore Some notion of plots and stratagems; but I believe we were neither of us formed for Intrigue, since with all our industry cannot yet invent any method to procure me the coinpany
of iny lover, that will not render us liable to
Suspicion
142

Suspicion from my aunt. besides, Mellifont is a constant interruption to my happiness by
N
his perpetual visits; for I can’t resolve to see Lucius at a time when we Should be so liable to be disturbed by that intruder’s presence. His company on this account grows distaste., full to me; and it is with the utmost disticuky that I keep within the bounds of good manners. But I am afraid of disobliging him, lejt he Should acquaint my father with his passion, which he would doubtless approve, and lest my refustng to gratify him in this
, should offend him so much as to make him cross me in the dearest interests of lily heart. 1 am.
Madam,
toufsf c.
Felicia,
LETTER XIII
Madam,
N

O T the cooling shade of Some friendly bower, the fanning breeze of Zephyrs, orthe agreeable freshnefs of lome limpid stream, cbuldgive greaterdelight to the laborious hind. Scorched with, the meredian fun’s too ardent beams, than I received from the news of your
being

*43
being already joined by the most Sacred bonds to the gay, the tender Philario, May all your days be propitious! May blooming joys, ever opening with new delight, perpetuate your felicity! May his lordship’s affection, instead of decreasing with time, ripen into that Soft esteem, that tender complacency, which are the natuial attendants of love and merit, and the highest Summit of all Sublunary happiness!! short, may you be bound to him with all that dignity of pastion which is necessary to render him ever as dear to you as now; while love shall have the energy of religion; and inclination the force of every Sacred dictate!
You See, Madam, what an awkward creature I would have you. To dare to be happy is a thing So unfashionable, that it may poshbly require Some degree of resolution to withstand the shock of being thought that dull thing (Called z. fond wife; but however impolite it is to have any degree of affection Subssst between those who ought to halve the greatest, you have too much good sense to be ashamed of what must now not only be the essence of your happiness, but your highest glory. How strange is it, that a name, a mere Sound, and a sound too to' which we have no fettled meaning,
should have Such an influence upon mankind.
as
144

as to make them cancel all the en?ag: ements
o o
of duty, affection, and happiness; and even forfeit all their hopes of a blissful futurity! what bewitching charm! what dire Spell t what strange enchantment is contained in the word polite that it should control our very passions,
and malce us Suffer greater pangs of self-denial to become vicious, than would be Sufficient to raise us to the highest attainments of heroic virtue! to be thought polite how many ladies are contented to be fashionably miserable? To be thought polite, an old fop, decripid with years, will keep a mistress, and have the insolence to boast of a thousand vices, which his years, one would think, exempted him from. To be thought polite, a man will contemn the too condescending affection of the stupid fool his wife, despise her easy virtue, and at the same time a door an impudent prostitute, who tyrannises over him, and insults him with impunity. While a lady for the same reason (out oij>o utenefs) will abhor the nauseous fond wretch Ter husband. Thus a confured notion of honour (another word of the Same kind, the letters of which 1 Suppose are a kind of talisman) will make a coward go trembling to de strudion, and rush with horror into a dreaded
eternity
You

^ 45
You will think this a very odd kind of a 'preamble to be addressed to a bride in ail the blooming pride of youth and beauty; but if you consider that we ought to lay down Some principles to Secure the continuance of true felicity, you will not think it an inexcusable piece of impertinence in me, to put you in mind, that if w’e would enjoy any solid happiness, we must be contented to distent from the maxims of the greatest part of mankind; it is certain that we are govern’d more by sound than we are generally willing to imagine. — — But I might have considered too, that your good Sense had undoubtedly diredied you to make the same observation. But let that be as it will, I know I am secure of your pardon; for you are now in too happy a situation to be offended at anything I can say, however common and trifling my thoughts.
To put an end to these grave remarks, I come to mine own affairs: and first I ihal! tell you that I have lately had an interview vdth Lucius, in which I gave him an opportunity
of indulging all the tenderness of his heart; a fatisfadston that was procured me by the kind assistance of Amelia. Upon hearing a few days since of the necessities of an honest but indigent family, about a mile distant from vol. I. H my

14-6

y'
my aunt’s, -! resolved to pay theni a vistt, to indulge some of that Sublime pleasure which it is the greatest advantage of a large fortune to procure us. Amelia only was acquainted with this visit; nor did I tell her of it till I was ready to Set out, when I desired her to accompany me, to which she instantly consented. We found the unhappy mansion situated at the foot of a hill. Surrounded with Several enclosures of orchards, pasture grounds, and corn fields: at the entrance leading to the door, was a short walk between two elder hedges, which enclosed a Small kitchen garden, with some stacks of hay, and near the main building, some stables and barns. But everything was in profound silence; for no human object was near, and nothing to be heard, but the warbling Songs of the airy choristers, who fluttered amongst the hedges, or sat making their responses from the distant thorny brakes. Xhe Solitary stillnefs of the place, added to the refle£tion of the bustnefs in which I was employ’d, contributed to render me thoughtful, and I could not help giving Some moments to the consideration of the various unavoidable
miseries which attend human nature; niife
#
Ties which neither virtue nor prudence can always
guard a
With a mind thus dipped
m
/
%

147
in pity, I could not help hesitating a little when; we came to the door; but at last rapping Softly, we entered the room, where despair and sorrow were painted in the strongest colours, and in every face Such an undiflembled sadness,
as struck me to the very foul: for notwithstanding the relief I intended to give them,
I could not forbear sharing in the general
\
grief; and, indeed, it was with Some pain that I assumed an air of ease and cheerfulness, in order to comfort a pretty boy who stood with his eyes fixed upon his mother, and pulling her by the apron, cry’d at feeing her weep, Two other children, too young to take the same notice, were playing about the room : but where ever I turned my eyes, everything was in disorder; nor was it easy to cross the room, or take a chair, for the confused heap of litter which was every way strewed about. Alas! the poor woman was in too deep afhic tion to attend to the management of her family; her mind too much discomposed to at tend to order and decorum; for a violent distress almost always renders us inadlive; it'finks and depresses the Spirits, and when no visible assistance is in view, even makes the unhappy incapable of thinking or using their natural
H 2 abilities.
14^

abilities, in order to extricate themfdves from the prelihre of their difficulties.
These observations. Madam, I have learned from my aunt, and have always found them agreeable to truth. At one of the windows sat a young man, with despair in his eyes, and a look that discovered he was grown stupid with grief: a book of devotion lay open before him, on which his regards were fixed; but fixed in such a steady manner, as showed that he was incapable of reading : he pored on the same place, and neither his eyes nor his head moved to take in the compass of a line. As soon as we entered the room, the good woman arose from her chair, and appeared surprised at the sight of strangers of our appearance, afk’d our business;; taking the little boy into my arms, I wiped away his tears, and kissing his pretty rosy cheeks, told him I wou’d wipe away his mother’s too if i was able; at this he fmil’d., when emptying Some lumber out of a chair, while the mother made one ready for Amelia, we both sat down At a loss how to introduce the cause of our visit, and - willing to oblige them in a way as little painful as possible, I feem’d mighty fond of the little creatures that were flaying around me :
then turning to she mother, defir’d that she
would
vw.

t
would look upon us as her Sincereft friends, and that we Should think it a pleasure to serve her; but Ihe thank’d me in a manner that showed that her hopes were at a low ebb, and too far Sunk to be rais’d by glimmering pros pedis, and airy vilions. However, she called her husband;; before he came Amelia arose, and leaving me to comfort the distressed as my humanity directed, elated with the a greeable surprise she hoped to give me, went oiit with the ruhic youth, and privately dispatched him to Maiilla, to let her know where we were, and that her company with her brother’s would be acceptable to us bosh. Meanwhile the master of the house, with more firmness in his countenance, but wish eyes drooping with care, came to us from a back room, and related the cause of his misfortunes,, with that honest f.anknefs and Simplicity, which always affects the mind, tho’ uttered in the most plain and homely language. He told me; That by the excessive rains, which had enriched the farmers of the neighbouring hills with several successive years of plenty, he was reduced from a state of assluence to jienury and indigence; that he should be o blig’d to sell the plentiful crop shat covered his Ihnds to a vast disadvantage to falisfy his land
id. lord’sji

150
lord’s demands; and that he had no other profpecfi than to lose the fruit of his labours, to be turn’d out of all his possessions, and perhaps, be glad to glean the fields he himself; had sown;; all this for want of a Small Sumj which his landlord had now a particular occasion for— — to shorten his uneasiness, 1 here interrupted him to know what Sum would remove his present anxiety, and as Soon as he had inform’d me, I told him wdth a smile, that I thought myself very happy at having it in my power to give joy to an honest family, and at the Same time emptied my purse upon the table. I now felt my heart overflow with a lympathetic ecstasy, arising from the transports I myself had occasion’d. Thus,
with a little gold that has long laid useless in my chest, and for which I have here no use, I have procured the happlnefs of a whole family, and given myself a delight more exquisite than I ever experienced from the like occasion; Since the advantage they have received from it (as they told me) may probably redound to their childrens children. What use could I possibly make of this hoarded pelf to procure me equal satisfaction?? what is the pleasure we receive from pride, the gratification of a luxurious appetite, or the indulgence

155
gence of the highest animal delight, compared to this luxury of the mind, the more natural rapture which results from the gratifications of our humanity? But while the good people were loading me with their blessings', I had the agreeable surprise of feeing Amelia enter the room, accompanied by Lucius and his sister; for as they lived but a Small distance' from the farmer’s, she chose to walk Softly after the young man in order to meet them, and to let them know that I was an entire stranger to the vifit she requested from them. Seized with a Sudden emotion, my heart fluttered with a painful joy, and throbbed with a sweet yet tumultuous ecstasy. I hastily arose, hardly having the power to stay to desire my
old friends to take no notice of what had pasted, and running to the door, in an eager transport embraced Marilla, at the same time shooting a glance at her dear brother. We
We talk’d
like friends who had not Seen each other for a long time, full of Spirit, full of affeiflion; till at last, after having taken two or three turns, Amelia and Marilla told me with a lauah that they would leave me for a few minutes, * and instantly striking off to the most distant part of the orchard, Seated themselves und
went into the orchard together.
^ \ o
er a
H 4
152

tree, and by their absence left room for a more delightful conversation;; tho’ Lucius was row very sensible that he was dear to me, he could not enter upon the tender fubjt£l: without confusion; he at first enquir’d after my health; complained that he was deny’d the pleasure of feeing me, and then with a sigh, let me know how much he thought himself oblig’d to Amelia for procuring him a fatis faffion he had so long languisti’d for. But why. Sir, said I, (willing to draw him to an explanaticn) do vou complain of your being deprived of my company; is that Such a terrible misfortune? Yes, my dear Felicia, rcply’d he, trembling and casting down his eyes, it is an insupportable misfortune. Did you but know. Madam, wdth what anguisti I support your absence; wdth what cruel inquietudes I count the tedious minutes; while my heart, (herehe paused, unable to proceed, while every joint quivered with fear, but at last resuming) while my heart struggles to be near you; vt^ere you sensible of that tumult of pafiion, and all those nameless dear sensations which fill my breast, O Felicia! your wonder would cease, and you wmuld rather be furptifed, that any consideration could prevent my flying to you? His embarrasiment now seem’d to increase,
while



&
while he waited for my answer, and indeed I was going to endeavour to rally him on his pretended Platonic friendship: to endeavour I Say, for I am Sadly afraid, I should have made but an odd appearance with my affe61; ed gaiety; for my heart was too much soften’d to permit me to laugh at him; however one touching glance chang’d my resolution, and oblig’d me to behave more naturally; that is, to thank him for what was So perfe£lly agreeable to me. I am obliged to you, Sir, Said I, for that deep concern you expreis for me; but were I more Sensible that I deserved it, I might give greater creditto what you tell me; however I can do no less than thank you for your complaisance. Ah! Madam, returned he with more resolution, (while a darting joy flushed in his cheek, and in a moment mingled’
an air of delight amidst the tender languish
inent of his countenance) your merit Sufficiently authorises the ardour of my passion. I feel the force of your charms; they run tliro’ my heart, and captivate every thought; but chiefly that anhiable virtue, that fan£lity of manners, and all those dear unutterable graces, which perpetually bloflbm with fresh beauties and undecaying charms, fill my ravish’d soul, and inspire a tender admiration and .distant
weh
S
?54
felsgi a to Charlotte
/
A.

■>
D'
You Ses, Madam, that ihese fllent lovers fwho struck dumb with a gufli of passion too Soft and powerful to be expressed) have their tongues no Sooner unlock’d, than they burst into heroics, and talk as differently from the polite gentlemen of the more stubborn mould, who have language at command, as if they were another species of beings. Here the heart says everything, and dictates not only the words, but the minutest glance, arid the
V
least motion : every feature has a voice, and the whole man proclaims the power of love. For my part I freely, confess that flattery never appeared half Ib charming as it did now. A Sweet enthusrafm possessed all my soul, and I could not help thinking how much better this
dear man deserved a compliment of this kind
%
than myself. But the next thought gave a bitter dasti to this exultation of heart, and made me ripply in a mild tone : You are much to blame to entertain such romantic sentiments of me, which, I assure you, I have not vanity enough to think I deserve; but however were I ever so worthy of your esteem, and tenderest affection, yet the thought that I am not at my own disposal' ' the difhculty you
may expe<st to meet with from my father, who has an undoubted right to difpose of me, should
'make
\
fsiicia TO Charlotte,
io
make you endeavour to forget me, and conquer a passion which I fear will prove fatal to your repose. This answer gave an immediate damp to his transport, and seem’d to throw hinti intq a fresh consuiion; however, fixing his eyes upon me, with a languid yet piercing air, O my dear P'elicia, cried he, do you indeed blame the unconquerable tenderness of my heart? Would you persuade me to erase your lovely image from my soul? Alas 11 am
too Senfibie that I have no reason to 'ssatter
. »
myself, that your father will ever favour my aspiring wishes, yet, whatever is the consequence, f must love you ssill ^ *'d must ever Jove you. Nor can I, tho’ Surrounded with difsculties that oppose my happiness, even wish thaf: I loved you less. But ah I Madaip, if you desire that I should forget you, I am wretched indeed!
With what irresistible sostfless were theso last words uttered! his eyes Swelled with' a
starting tear, which with conscious dignity and shame he endeavoured to call hack, as a mar qf a too effeminate weafcnefs. Every Speaking feature defcfibed the strong emotions which agitated his soul with all the torturing agonies that can arise frorn the tenderest despastj while pity aad love, and dear compassion shot shrough
N
j
>55

tny heart, and filled all my mind V ith a vlf tuous and decent foftness. I look’d upon him; but what did this look tell him? Certainly all that I felt; for my eyes were then incapable of Speaking a fallhood. O Lucius I Said I, need I tell you, that I am far from wishing it in your power to forget me? yet, methinks if that was necessary to your happiness, I could fusser a great deal to procure it; and perhaps a conquest of this kind would not cost me less than it would you. Could you but procure my father’s consent, we might both be happy — but that I fear you will never obtain. No; neither you nor I ought to hope for it. And I here protest that I will never be your’s without his approbation.' — Not even your merit, great as it is, shall ever make me forget that I have a father — a kind and indulgent father, — Never shall any conssderation prevail with me to forfeit my duty to God, or to him. This resolution you will not — — you cannot condemn. No, my dear Felicia, return’d he,
with his eyes Sparkling with a languid joy; my love is too pure to Suffer me either to involve you in your father’s displeasure, or to tempt you to offend heaven : So far from laying Snares for your virtue and honour, I would die
m their defence, and faciistce all that is dear
to

isf
to me, to preserve them inviolate. Diit O What transporting goodness 1 Do you indeed love me? — Is it possible? — Help me to Support the rapture of this ecstatic thought — or rather teach me how to merit your father’s favour. — What means would 1 not employ to obtain it. — Sure if he is Such a tender father as you describe him, he must have Some regard to .your inclinaiioas in an affair of Such infinite consequence to your happinesc But oh this disproportion of fortune? — that is the obstacle. — And can there be a greater in the opinion of a'tender parent? — Yes, sure, to a wife and tender parent there may.
But, Madam, I must not forget to mention one circumstance that I am sure will make you Smile. In the height of his rapture he Seized my hand, and Squeezing it with a strong and Sudden grasp, hurt mr fingers So that I could hardly forbear crying out; I am Sure if
he had observed my looks, he would have
\
found that I made most frightful faces: he then pressed it to his lips, and taking it from thence, grasp’d my poor fingers again with the same convulfic n of passion, still stackening the tender pressure as his thoughts return’d to my father, he at last held my hand So loose that my numm’d fingers could Scarcely feel
that

that he held them at all. But a shame on niy extreme infensibility, that gave occasion to these intolerable extasies! What tender words had I uttered! dear Madam, let no prudes or coquettes ever read my letters, for I shall certainly never be able to stand the censure of she one, or the raillery of the other. But to proceed:
Melting with the high wrought rapture which seemed to Sublime our souls, while it raised us to a degree of felicity almost too ex quisite to be supported, we mutually open’d our hearts, and with a confidence of being beloved, reciprocally confessed she tender fenfai tions that fweu’d our bofonas. All my soul was delight! A delight pure as the rapture of aesherial Spirits? his, transporting ecstasy!!
not the coarser tie of human laws,
** Unnatural oft, and foreign tp the ntind.
That binds our peace, but hartpony itf?lf»
Attuning all our passions into love.;
Where friendship full exerts his softest power;
i "
perfeq: esteem and I'ympathy of soul.
Thought meeting thought, and will preventing
will,
With boundlefsconfidence j for nought but; love
Can answer love, and render bliss fegure.
Thompson,
• i
But lost in this charming intercourse of
, we forgot shat it WRS time to depart,
till
\
V «*-
- •••f
Fflicia to Charlotte.
till my cousin with an unwelcome intrusion, and more unwelcome meisage, came to put us in mind that the Sun was Setting, and that it was time to return home; when with reluctant hearts, after bidding a tender adieu, and embracing Marilla, I tore myself from them, and hasted back with Amelia to my aunt.
You, I hope, Madam, will excuse the weakness I So freely confess to you; Softened by the scene of distress I had just been a witness of, the unexpe^ed prelence of my dear Lucius had probably a much greater effecl
than it would have had, if my mind had not been thus previouhy intendered. However, nothing can ennoble the soul like a virtuous passion. It inspires a thousand delicacies, a thousand virtues, which, without it, we should
inly have no idea of,
I AM, Madam, with my Sincerest refpecls to his lordship, and my most ardent prayers for the continuance of your mutual hap piness,
Your ladyship’s
(tbedieni Servantj
Felicia,
io

LETTER
Madam,
5T *
1
H O’ your impatience to hear from me is very obliging, yet it lays me under a necessity of entertaining you with abundance of impertinences; but if trifles can entertainj you have no reason to be diltatisfled. Wrapped up in obfeurity, I hear nothing of the fate of princes, or the fall of contending nations. I have now no ambition to inquire after such important events : an humble swain engroites all my attention, tho’ I hardly ever see hitiii 1 converse with few besides the people of the groves, who fpretty warblers!) are my constant companions; yet you would have me incessantly writing. Upon my word, Madam, you are quite unreafonabie. I can hardly' think it possible that a month’s Silence can give you all this impatience. But your friendstiip' is an exgufe that 1 must admit. I therefore leave the rooks and daws, which with theic harsh difcoidant pipes, aid the concert of the warbling linnet, the thrush, the wood lark, who prodigal of harmony, run through their wilfl variety of notes. Nor shall the rofy breasted robin, emblem of innocence! the
mellow

ii
mellow bull finch, or the dying cadence of the high foaring Songster of the Iky, nor all the w'ing’d choristers, who chant their loves, and in “stuttering courtihip pour out their ‘^ little fi)uls in mellistuous numbers, ’’ prevent my being impertinent when you command it.
My mind is nowin an unaccountable situation, strangely divided between hope and fear, and tossed with avariety of contending passions. Still teased with the addresses of Mellifont, his company becomes every day more insup
portabl

his vanity grows insufferable, and
the very means he employs to irfinuate himself into my esteem, heightens my aversion. Not that he is really a disagreeable companion; but while he is a perpetual obstacle to my feeing Lucius, it is no wonder if his gayest flights, humorous and diverting as they may appear to others, only Serve to increase my fisteen and heighten my disgust. I'he consideration that his unwelcome intrusion deprives me of that dear and Softening pleasure I should otherwise enjoy from the cordial glances, and all the pleasing intercourses of lo ve that might pafs between Lucius and me, poisons the fatisfa<fiion I should otherwise receive from his Sprightly airs r airs that have not
the
i62

/
the least conformity with the tenderly pensive difposition of my mind.
One day last week being disturb’d with abundance of gloomy reflevslions, all turning upon the absence of my lover, and the opposition I expeist to meet with from my father, Mellifont glided into the room with a dancing step and his usual assurance, and an affedlation of all that ease and negligence, of behaviour, that can only, Spring from a mind entirely Satisfied with itself. He sung rofy bowersy bumm’d an Italian air, and every minute di grested from the Song, either to make an application to me, or to utter Some tender thing, which intruded upon his thoughts; but everything was exprested with Such a mixture of the Soft and the ridiculous, as would have forced a Smile from any one that had less reason to be melancholy. But I was too perverse to be moved by his fantastic behaviour, to show even by my looks the least mark of approbation.
Deaf to the music of his vpice, which is really very harmonious, and untouched by all his arts to charm me, he insensibly became, more grave, when laying aside his frolic airs. Will nothing Satisfy you, my charmer. Said he, unless you see me Sighing at your feet Wpuld you have me in dull languishment admire

  163
mire your beauties, and with a heavy sobbing heart tell you all my pain? Well, Madam, I confess myself your flave j but at the Same time beg, that, cruel as you are, you will not triumph in your conquest, and insult over the
victim of your charms.
Here he threw himself upon his knee, and taking: one of my hands, which he tenderly pressed in his. See, my dear, fa id he, as great a conquest as ever love has made. In vain I have struggled to regain rny liberty. All my' wishes centre in you; I love you with all the passionate fofnefs that can fill a human breast : as tenderly as — as — Nay, Madam, for heaven’s sake don’t laugh at me, continued he, feeing, me smile;; tell me Sincerely now, don’t I look very Silly. I ssgh like the fam’d knight errants of old, and like them bending before the divine object of my sublimest wishes, beg, O thou adorable fair, that thou wilt mitigate the Severity of my unhappy destiny, or fuster me to expire at thy feet. Here making a pause, he gently sunk his head upon my lap; when snatching away my hand, and precipitately rising, he could not prevent his falling upon the floor. Not all my melancholy could now prevent my laughing, had I not endeavour’d to hinder it in order to carry on
this
164

this comic fcencc Lie there, cried I, thou unworthy knight, nor ever more appear before me, till thou b: ingest me the heads of those Savage monsters that infest the woods, the trophies of thy prowess and renown. At this I Hung out of the room, as if in a mighty passion, and stepping into the thickest part of the garden, indulged for a few minutes the burst of laughter, which I with difficulty restrain’d till I was out of his hearing
How dreadfully afraid is poor Mellifont of rny abusing the power I have over him! he was just distblving in softness; but in the moment when he was giving way to his passion, and throwing aside his sprightliness, which was now become unnatural, a Smile recalled back his fears; his dread of my tyranny returned, and to prevent my taking advantage of his weakness, he was willing to turn all he. had Said into ridicule.
However, when I began to rested! a little, I could not help being afraid that I had affronted him by my ill manners in leaving him foabruptly^ and therefore having now been near
an hour in the garden, and imagining he was gone, return’d to my aunt, in order to make my excuses to her; to whom I fancied he had complained, and who, probably, would'
blame
  165
blame me for carrying the jest too far. But in my way stepping into the room where I had left him upon the floor, I found my doughty knight strutting about with an old rusty helmet on his head, and in his hand a pike, which Served for a Spear, upon which was fixed the head of a fox, which he had luckily run down the day before. When stamping with his foot, his trusty Tquire enter’d with the stuffed skins of several badgers, and other beasts of prey, the spoils of his hall, when Mellifont bending one knee, laid them at my feet, and resting upon his Spear, See, fair princess, said he, bowing low his head, a knight renowned for affs of chivalry, who lays at your divine feet ihe ravagers of the mountains and the valleys,
but lower still he would lay his heart. Incomparable lady, you see a stave whofemag..
nanimous arm has made these horrid monsters tremble; yet his life depends on the radiance of your Smiles. Soften then with pity the beams of your eyes, lest their lightning, with too refugent glory, should burn his shrivelled heart to cindets.
This Set Speech, which he uttered with the utmost gravity and Solemnity, he had doubt !efs studied before i entered the room, and which he concluded with bending low to kiss
my
166

my feet; when struggling against a Smile, assum’d an air of inexorable sternnefs, and looking down upon him With a lofty Superiority and contempt. Avaunt, caitif vile, cried I, and think not to abuse my ears with thy audacious forgeries. Are these, wretch, the trophies of thy valour! where are the distressed virgins that thou hast delivered from the poi sonous talons of fiery dragons, or the dreadful gripe of monstrous giants. Fly, coward, and attempt not to abuse my credulity with the carcasses of insects, or my weak arm shall chastise thy temerity. Here I turn’d hastily from him, and walking with a majestic statejinefs, Seated myself at the other end of the room, in an easy chair, with as much dignity as if it had been a chair of state. But I had no Sooner turn’d my back, than throwing away his masking ornaments, he stepp’d up to me, singing“ “do you sty, my dearest, ” and immediately dropping his Song, don’t you think. Madam, cried he, that we have acted our parts to perfection? Upon my word, you do everything with a grace. Your every air is charming. I only am defective; for I find I shall do no wonders in the character of a redoubted champion for love; Since after all my endeavours, 1 have been shamefully degraded,
and

\
167
and cast from the dignity of my Sublime station. Yet, Madam, you are fensible it was in disguise that you made me a convert to love? adorned like Flora with all the blooming graces of the Smiling year, and encircled with the united
fragrance of every opening flovrer, you
%
captivated all my Senses, and instantly made me that odd creature, called a whining. Sighing lover. Upon my word, Madam, you could not have made a stranger metamorphosis had you fix’d me a statue. Here he paused, but instantly recolledling himfelst O Madam, cried he. Smiling and rubbing his hands, I have a lucky thought; permit me to assume another disguise; as you first appeared to me agodstest, let me for once be dif^uised like a god j you shall receive me crown’d with ivy, and the glowing cluster of the Swelling vine. In shis appearance who knows what vvonders I may perform! Besides, can anything better ex press the felicity that would, I am Sure, arise from oiir union, than an emblem of that paradise, where the Soft beauties of the openiitg year shall be blended with the yellow fruits of .autumn, and all the charms of the luxuriatit
howl. In what exquisite happiness should we Spend our days; you ever blooming;
I, like'bicchus, ever frolic, gay arid Sprightly.
No,

i68

No, no. Sir, Said I, the Seasons may take their course for me; nor will I have anything to do with your drunken god fliip. I therefore beg it as a favour that I may not be disturb’d with such fooleries, which are very disagreeable to me. I had hardly uttered these words when with the utmost furprise I saw Lucius and Marilla enter the room; but it was a surprise accompanied with delight. I view’d his looks with conscious innocence, while no fufpedling fear dim’d his eyes, nor wan jealousy difcolour’d his cheek. While I was embracing Marilla, Lucius and Mellifont met each other with the freedom of persons who had been long acquainted, and turning to me, I have heard, (aid he, that you are to have a little diversion, and if it is not over, would be glad to have a part in it Hail L noble knight, cry’d he, clapping Mellifont on the Ihoulder, what mighty seat of arms is to be done with your helmet and lance? Melhfont feern’d here a little confused, while 1 began to fear that my lover was acquainted with the palhon of his rival; but examining again his countenance, my uneasiness vanished, for it had not the least tincsture of disorder. But finding that Mellifont made no reply, Come, my friend, no evasions, rejoin’d he, I met your
Servant

i6
9
\ 1
Servant an hour ago running home with all possible Speed, and in Such haste that he had hardly time to tell me the whimsical message you had given him, to strip your hall of its grim ornaments, and to bring them here with thole rusty pieces of ancient heroism your helmet and lance. And the lady of this house, doing my Sister and I the honour to destre our
4
company, I came filled with the hopes of feeing Some of your diverting extravagances.
Here Mellifont, assuming a cheerful air, began the relation of the odd piece of q^nxot ifm which he had carried on with such humour, and my aunt and Amelia cominj in could not help joining with Lucius and ma rilla, in frequently interrupting him, by bursting into a general laugh; and indeed it was impossible for any one in the company to forbear. For tho’ the story was comical enough of itself, yet the Severe manner in which he lashed himself, with the romantic leflediions he made upon his disgrace, rendered ir infinitely mote extravagant: Nor indeed is II pos fible to give you any idea of this part of our diversion, except I could give you the varied tone of his voice, his looks, his air, and his nii nutest gesture.
The evening was Spent with abundanc; of; gaiety, while lucius’s good fense, and melli vol, I. I font’s
\
lyo
LL I CIA TO .DH AR LOTTE.
font’s agreeable vivacity, furnistied a great part of our entertainment. Nor were Some of those Soft and refin’d pleasures wanting, which I now find make up the most exquisite part of human happiness, ’tis true, I could not enter into, a particular conversation with my lover, much less indulge the innocent Satisfaffion of a private interview; but yet I sat near him, and rethought my heart beat in that Situation, much more freely than when he was far distant. My soul itself was all harmony I and inspired by his presence, every vein was harmony too. Strange I that the mind can be sensible of Such delight from only a confcious ness of a dear objedi’s being near! what magnetic influence, what attradlive power is in the person beloved, that from a circumstance So Small can inspire Such tender joys. Such delicate fensibilities of happiness?? true, I law him with pleasure, I heard him with p’eafure too; but yet I had an additional delight, more constant and uniform, from my being aeon Sc ious
that I was near him, which every seat farther
#
from him would have fensibly decrcafed. You, Madam, can perhaps account for these pleasing emotions; and I desire you would let me know if you think it unreasonable, that upon these occasions there should be feme Secret
Sympathies,
Fflicia to Charlotte.

Sympathies, Some dear inexpressible ways, by which Souls expand themselves towards the dear person, and join in a Soft aethereal embrace.
I know you will laugh at this whimsical conceit V but no matter. The evening, I say, was Spent agreeably, tho’ we were obliged to be very cautious in our looks, to prevent Suspicion j and indeed I was quite Sparing in mine, for I Seldom indulged the pleasure of examiriing his countenance. A precaution that was now absolutely necessary. However, might I frequently enjoy lucius’s company in the same manner, I should be more contented; but badly ever to see him, and at the lame time to have no profpeist of having the difficulties removed, which obstruil thishappineis, i freely confess is more than I am well able to bear, I am afraid of having our mutual passion discovered, I tremble with the most dreadful ap prehensions for fear it should come to my fa ther’s ears; and yet without this should be the cafe, it will for ever continue imooffible for me to taste any true felicity.
O MY dear fiiend, if my happiness is really dear to you, give me your advice, and teach me if possible to unite my duty to my father, with the tender Sentiments I feel for Lucius, and to make shem both fubservient o. the
I 2 highest;

5*72
 "
liigheft pleasure I can enjoy on earth. By what means shall I attack my father’s heart? By what means shall Lucius procure his favour, and make him fensible of his merit? To effect this will be a talk hard and difficult, and to have a share in promoting my happiness, will be an employment worthy of your friendship, and the most endearing proof you can possibly give me of your esteem and affection. With the sincerest and most tender re spe61, 1 am
Your ladyship’s
Moji obedient Ser vant,
Felicia.
LETTER XV
S it possible. Madam, that you can really give me such advice? W hat, to forger my dear father! to steel my heart against the soft impressions of filial duty I to be infensible of she strong and tender ties of nature, of the affectionate cares his heart has felt for me, and
all those numberless instances of paternal kindness which I have so often received fi-om him 1 Shall I throw a cloud over the flattering prospects he has raised for me, and dilap point all his fond views for my happiness, by
casting
\
Fslicia to Charlotte.
17
casting off that right w’hich nature, and the much more prevailing force of tenderness and love, have given him over me! No, Madam, I ssiali never be guilty of Such ingratitude. I will never difpoie of myself without his consent; nor (hall all your arguments how plau -- Sible soever, prevail with me to give him minute’s uneasmefs.
P/\RDON the freedom with which i rejecb your proposal;; never knew what it was to have parents, and therefore can have but faint ideas of that foliicitude, that unwearied concern which employ their thoughts; much less can you be fensible of the unspeakable obligations I am under to mine, the hest of parents! and the best of fathers! — But Sure I am mistaken; you must have very strong ideas of paternal tenderness, to say, that however offended he may be at first, affection will foori take place of resentment, and at last Swallow up all thought of difpleaftire; when his eyes will be open to the merits of Lucius, and he may postibly be brought even to approve of our union. A reconciliatioiv wdiich vou kind
J
Jy promise to use your utmost endeavour to procure for us. But, ah 1 my dear friend 1 can I presume on that affection which makes him dear to me ^ Can I offend him, from the
c -
3
thought
3 74

thought that he is far from defervlng Such is Sage from me? And can I difdaim his authority and counsel, from the reflection that he deserves all my confidence, and my most grateful and affectionate regards? No, my dear, you must excuse me, your friendihip blinds your judgement, and makes you give me advice that you would be far from taking yourself, were you in my circumstances. You would then have considered the vexation that must arise from a disappointment of the fondest hopes I the just provocation of feeing goodness abused, and the painful mixture of anger and love, arising in the mind of an indulgent father, as the greatest evils : nor could you, I am Sure, think of being the cause of all these dreadful perturbations without starting back, and instantly recoiling into duty.
Your ladyship finds now, v.shat a trouble some persecution your kindness brings upon you : instead of acknowledging your goodness, and thanking you for the obliging concern you express for my happiness, I have been haranguing for 1 don’t know how long on my duty to my ever honoured papa, in order to let you see what a good girl I am. But don’t be offended. Madam, I have only been anticipating your own thoughts on the rights of
parents,.
 "
v75
parents. You will Soon be of my mind; and a few months hence, I hope, will be able to write on this subject with a much beter grace than I can pretend to do; Since you will then, it is likely, find abundance of those tender cares, those dear undescribable follicitudes a rismg in your heart, which I form but a dii tant idea of, from the impressions I have received from the paternal affection of one of the best of fathers.
The generous pity you express for melli font, proceeds undoubtedly from your humanity and natural goodness j but I find this pity does not deprive you of the pleasure of diverting yourself with the oddness of his behaviour : and the ridiculous manner in which he pays me his addrelses; but I am going tofurprife you by letting you see that he is no longer to be pitied, since he is in a fair way of regain ing his liberty; or at least of falling into a more supportable bondage.
If you remember, Madam, I gave you in one of my letters an account of the concealed passion Amelia entertained for this gay spark of mine; but hopeless as it then appeared, the engaging softness of her behaviour, and the natural sweetness of her disposition, added to that easy, unafredled freedom, and artless innocence
I 4 which

 ,
which attends everything she does. Seem at length to have made an impression on him.. But you could never guess from whom I received
this news
from Lucius. Madam.
He made his rival his constjant. And here follows the letter I have just received from him on this occafton.
<{

“Lovely Felicia,
E L I G H T F U L as the refleaioti
of your goodness is, while I indulge “the transporting remembrance of that charm“
“air with which you frankly confelted the
“tender regard you should always have for
-- -- you love! you return my
“my happiness;; -- -- -
“! what an ecstatic thought! yet it can“ “enable me to support the tedious delays “the painful absence, the torturing fufpcnfe, “and the pleasing yet dreadful mixture of hope “and fear with which I wait to know that fen“ “from your father, which must confirm “me blessed beyond expression, or throw the
“thickest gloom over all my joys. -- -- -- O my
“dear! with what ardour do 1 long to see you!
I have a thousand things to say.
“Yesterday my friend Mellifont came “to see me, with an air more thoughtful than “Seemed consiftent with bis sprightly volatile, “temper;

Or
  Tyyf
temper; when our friendstiip, which begaa very early, and which upon his late return “from the tour of Europe, has been revived with all its warmth, engaged me to press him “to commumcate the cause of his discontent“
“told me, that was the design of his visit“
“proposing our going into my study, where “we might be Secure from interruption, began
I
“there a story V hich filled my mind with every
“wild ao; itation. It is with shame, said h
that I confess my'weaknefs, .I.iove Felicia.
“O what a stab did these words give me! his
“wealth, his form, his wit, his humour, with
every qualification capable of charming the “fair, rushed upon my mind, and gave me ths «
“first pangs of jealousy; tormenting pastion •
“but recolletsting that he was certainly ignc^
“rant of my being his rival, I endeavoured to
“arm myself wish patience: he then enumerated..,
your fevtral perfedfion?, and dwelled upon your
“charms, while every commendation increas’d^
‘' my dilquict: O Madam, can you forgive my :
“ujijust fears? -- fears injurious to, your ho “~
“-- -- but while I made the comparison“
“him and myself, how was it pos“
“to help being alarmed, since I myfdf:
“must have justified your choice in rejecting’
“me for him. But thde fears ■ were short'
'5 " “lived:
vip A, ^
d
r'

 "
CC
CI
lived and transient, they Icon gave way to ^ healing joy, which composed the impetuous “tumult of my soul; and with the utmost de light I heard him add, Yet you would ad mire, Lucius, to see how cold, how insensible ‘t: she is of all my endeavours to please her. “I meet with nothing but perfe<st indifference. “Her very looks speak her infensibility. — Ah I:
“had she but half the winning foftefs, the ten“ “graces of Amelia! — but she is incapable “of softness— — — don’t you think Amelia pretty near as beautiful as Felicia? — It must “be confessed, however, that this lady has “a much more agreeable temper. — What a pleassng air! what a charming ssmplicity!
“don’t you think it would pique felicia’s “pride to see me change the obje6l of my ho“ “and pay those assiduous addresses ta her coussn, which she with so much fcor» ** contemns? — It is a pleasing thought, and I am resolved to punish this haughty beauty, “by letting her see, that it is now out of her “power to render me that whining ridiculous “fellow she endeavours to make me. tell me now, Lucius, am I not in the right? “They are both ladies of extraordinary merk, replied I with the utmost calmness; but
y you ought not to impute felicia’s dissike to
“a want


r
** a want of natural goodness;; Mellifont, “is it Such a crime to be blind to your perfections?? would doubtless approve of you
“as a friend, tho’ not as a lover; and I think
** I know her well enough to affirm, that So
“far from being offended at your transferring
your affections to her cousin, she will use
her endeavours to promote your mutual fe
^ Do you think So? returned he; then
“I am relblved to try the experiment, I have
“found Something So engaging in amelia’s
behaviour, while I paid my addresses to her “coussn, that I have long looked upon he
with the highest esteem; she pleases without
‘* dessgn j and does the most trifling a£lions
with Such a grace, that they forcibly inss
“nuate themsestes into the heart. It is, I “am Sure, in her power to make me happy.
I endeavoured to fix this resolution, and af“
“several other things being Said on the
“same subject, he took leave, with a firm in“
“of transferring all his tender Send“
“to Amelia.
“O my dear Felicia! tell me what I must “think of myself for this behaviour. What“ “will you form of it? Sure it can“ “offend you I You are too artless to dif semble either with him or me. But how
16

ever
io  '
ever, I beg to See you, and with the most '‘ affectionate ardour, entreat you to give me an opportunity of expressing my gratitude, and telling you how much I am.
Dearest Creature!
Your obliged and
affectionate Servant,
f

LUCIUS:
\
A £ Toon as I had read this letter, I left my chamber, and made haste to communicate it to Amelia, who I did not question would be highly pleased with the contents; but to my no small surprise, as well as Satisfaction, I' found her engaged in a close conversation with Mellifont; So returning to my apartment. scrawl’d over the above in order to Send it a way by this night’s posh I have hardly time now to thank you in form for your many favours, and’ therefore with my affectionate prayers for the uninterrupted continuance of your felicity, I, in haste. Subscribe mysels,
Your ladyship’s
Moji obliged Friends
Felicia



18 I
LETTER XVI
AST week, my dear friend, I informed you that; the gay and janty Mellifont, finding himself unable with all his airs to ingratiate himself So far into my esteem, as to prevail with me to listen with pleasure to his addresses, was So poor a hero as to change his mistress, and diredi his Smiles and stghs to a melia, a thing which however common in real, life, is Seldom or never heard of in romance; et this instance of his prudence, So far from, alarming my pride, is a constant Source of fa tisfavslion and joy. And if you have yet read over my letter, you must .have observed too, that I told you I left them together while t
V
wrote you an account of this change in my, affairs.
As soon as he was gone, Amelia came running to my chamber with her eyes Sparkling with joy, and an air of the utmost Satisfaction What do you think, my dear, cried stie, as soon as she enter’d the room; the engaging Mellifont has been Saying Some of the most agreeable tender things to me. — O he is a charming man I He came, today as usual, when shinking that it was to you we owed his,
visit,
.
ls2

visit, I told him I would let you know that he
was here, at the Same time turned in order to
go and Seek for you; but he prevented me.
He took hold of my hand, and desiring me to stay. Said that his business was now with me,
I went with him into the parlour, when Seating himself by me with such a soft look as I have sometimes Seen him fix upon you, I know, Madam, said he, you will be surprised at what lam going to say to you; felicia^s rigour and
your charms have cured my passion for her. I have been unable to Support that lady’s constant indifference, and am not of a temper to indulge a softness that can be of no service to me. 1 will never be the dupe of a girl’s vanity, nor whine in doleful ditty the dismal story of despairing love. I arh resolved to be happy, and would have you observe that it is out of the power of any of your fair Sex to make me miserable. This, Madam, continued Amelia, was to prevent my using him as you have done j for he immediately added so many agreeable compliments, and Such strong protestations of the Sincerity of his love, that I could never be weary of hearing him. — O he is a charming man! This change is happy for us both : Is it not, Madam? — I dare say,
he is perfectly Sincere,
Here
r
14

I §3
Here Amelia took time to breathe; for her
ecstasy had carried her on with Such rapidity.
that in the exultation of her heart, she hardly
knew how to give a inomenss truce to her
Her whole soul overflowed with
transport.
joy, and it overflowed So fast, that her utterance
could hardly keep pace with the Swift course of her ideas. The most trifling word had the air of rapture, and every sentence the
dignity of triumph.
However, she no Sooner gave me leave to
Speak, than embracing her with much affe<5l; ign,
Yes, my dear, cried I Smiling, this revolution
is happy for us both, and I sincerely congratulate
you on the conquest of a heart that has sh long been dear to you. Lucius has lost a rival
that he had reason to fear, and I have no longer
the dread of disobliging my father by refustng
to marry a gentleman I cannot love; but I
have yet no profpe£l of his ever giving Lucius
his conlent; that is as far off as ever : while
you, who yesterday were ready to envy the
poor felicity I enjoyed, of having my almost
hopeless passion returned, have in a moment
obtained your wishes. My aunt will approve
your mutual tenderness, and in a few days cement

your happy union; how vastly is your
happiness Superior to mine! O my dear Felicia,

I
Felicia to Charlott: e.
licia, returned she again; can’t you rejcnce with me, without these bitter reflections? Exr pex the Same delightful turn in your affairs, and depend upon my aflistance in procuring it. A father’s compliance is not Sure So hard to obtain, when the felicity of a dear and only child is at stake. Let us communicate everything to Lucius. I will engage my mamma, as Soon as possible, to take us with her to pay his mother and Marilla a visit, We shall find him at home. He shall know he has had a rival, and we will, tell him the reason of its. being kept so long a Secret. — He knows ast ready the state of our affairs, replied I, and had acquainted me with them, before you knew your own happiness. — Here are a few lines that I received shorn hiin on this fubjex, just after I rose nom dinner.
At this she took the letter out of my hand with an eager surprise, her face was covered with a modest blush, which discovered Some confusion; and her eyes were. in a moment glewed to the paper, which Seemed to renew her joy. She read it over Several times, and Seemed to dwell with ecstasy on that past which related the conversation between my lover and Mellifont; but at last reluming it. T his is a proof, cried she, with a fresh kindling fatisfacr ' tron
  i8

/
tton in her looks, that he is Sincere in his pto feltions. It is not a rash hasty fit of dlfguft that makes him fly to me! He has examined his heart; he consults his friend; he loves me almost as well as I do him! This authorises the delight I feel, and proves that I have not been mistaken in thinking him Sincere, — has fixed his choice, and J stiail be happy 1.
These words were inspired by a transport that made her exalt her voice much above her
v
usual manner of Speaking, so that my aunt, who was entering the room at the Same time, heard her very diiunfuy. We both saw her in the same moment, and both were under Some confusion at this uncxpedftd interruption. Since we could not guess how much st.e had over heard of what we were unwilling to inform her of. However this disoister was very shorf; for she came forwards with a Smile, act

Companied with an air that had not the least mark of displeasure. Heigh day! cried she, (with her eyes alternately fixed upon her daughter and me) what is the matter, pray? What, all in raptures? mayn’t your mother, Amelia, partake of your Satisfadlion? I am come to claim a share in your confidenco, and to desire you would let me know mellifont’s business with you' today, and the Substance of that long
conversatioa
i86

Conversation you had together. Come, Be' free, mv dear, and tell me all.
Here I found that she was still ignorant of lucius’s paffi jn, when observing that Amelia cast down her eyes, and with a visible disorder hesitated how to reply, I inftamly removed her enibarrasment, O Madam, Said I, we have strange things to tell you. Mellifont finding my heart too flinty to be Softened by all his endeavours, has shook oflr my chains, and Seeks for happiness from the more gentle disposition of amelia’s soul. While paying his addresses to me, he discovered a thousand charms in
her, and therefore wisely consulting his own bappinefs, has changed the object of a hope -- less passion, for one who he has reason to flatter himself will prove more favourable. And I dare say. Madam, Since you approved of his being your nephew, you will be not less willing he should be your Son. No, child, returned she. So far from having any objedlions to him, I freely confess that 1 shall be proud of his alliance. But are you Sure that he is sincere in his pretensions?? as amelia’s fortune will be to his, I should highly resent my daughter’s being made a property of. This is perhaps only an artifice by which he hopes
to awaken your jealousy. My jealousy I Madam.

187
dam, cried I with Some warmth; no, he never could have the vanity to think it, I dare say he is in earnest, and sofar from being offended at his preferring my cousin to me, I rejoice in his change, and look upon it wi'h a peculiar Satisfaction. Well, whatever is his design, rejoined my aunt, a little time will discover it. However, Felida, I would have you believe that I am not much less concerned for your happiness than lam for amelia’s j you are both very dear to me; ^ — but your affections are perhaps already engaged, — Here I blushed in my turn, which I fancy she took notice of; for after a short pause, she only added. But it is not my bufiness to examine you on this Subject; tho’ I should be very glad to have a share in your confidence. As for you, Amelia, I hope you won’t Scruple to difeover to me the situation of your heart. You know I am too tender a mother not to consult your inclinations as well as my own, These last
words were expressed in a most moving tone; while my cousin, v>^ho had been hitherto Silent, could not conceal the rising tear, which with mute eloquence expressed her gratitude, and thank’d her for her indulgent goodness;;, starting up she Sprung into her arms, and gave her a feeling eaibrace, which the fond mother,
’ with
is
 '
with conscious happiness in her looks, return’d with equal ardour.
You can’t conceive Madam, how much I was affected with the goodness of the parent, and the confidence which it immediately produced in the mind of the child. Amelia dissolved in filial tenderness, acknowledged her regard for Mellifont; while my aunt approved her passion; approved it with an air of joy, though still doubting the Sincerity of his preten sions. When to remove her scruples, my cou sin promiied to make her a judge, by giving her an account of his future behaviour.
I WAS all this while a stupid observer, and was almost ashamed not to have a stare, in these pleasing caresses. Do I indulge a passion, said I to myself, that I am afraid of acknowledging to a person so well worthy of all my confidence? Will a lady that has so much consideration for her daughter, as to tell her that ste is too tender a parent not sto eonfult her child’s inclinations rather than her own; a woman that is Such an excellent judge of real merit, be insensible of the perfedlions of my dear Lucius, and disapprove of my passion for so valuable, so worthy a man? One whom she treats wist so much refpedi, and on whose virtue, strong sense, and other valuable accom
plistments.
Fbucia to Chaklottb.
io
phihments, I have heard her make So many encomiums. I canst believe it : — she will be pleased too with my confidence, approve my discernment, and give me her assistance to work upon my father. Well then, I will boldly confess my tender Sentiments for this engaging youth; and unternfied at the Smallness of his estate, will plead the cause of virtue against that of wealth; I will gain her over by my respeasul confidence, work upon her pity, and engage her to give us her friendly affis tance, her compastionate and endearing advice.
his was my final resolution; but though I had no reason to prevent my putting it in execution, yet I no Sooner attempted to open my Hps upon this too interesting Subject, than my courage failed, my heart with Soft and fluttering timidity rebelled against the dilates of ic ason; a thousand Scruples instantly arose;
1 blush’d; conscious shame held fast my tongue; the first word died upon my lips; my confidence vanished; and I found the words, //o yf, so hard to be uttered, that I was forc’d in Spite of myself to continue Silent, and leave unattempted the too Softening confession; while all the advantages I so reasonably expected from her assistance were unable to Surmount the
weakness
IQO
 ’
weakness I labour’d under. What a painful perplex’d situation was this! and how hard is it for a virtuous mind, to prevent that shame which ought only to accompany vice, from attending the most laudable passions! The mind, enfeebled by custom, is taught to regard that as a weakness which is its highest perfe<5lion j nor is it strange that the most honourable and decent love should be accompanied with a modest reludsant shame. Since we are taught to
^ o
blush, at being discovered in the practice of the noblest and most Sublime virtues,
my aunt did not stay long; Softened by her own affe£hon, and the tenderneis of her daughter, she left us with all that Satisfadlion in her looks, that could arise from the contemplation of the felicity of her child; when the percur, baiion of my mind, occastoned by the struggle between my diffidence and reason, insenstbly difpersed, and at last left me at leisure calmly to Sympathise in the happiness of my friends. Hope now gains the ascendant in my mind, and the indulgence of this good mother make? me flatter myself with the Same from a father, no less affeistionatdy concern’d for my interest.
With
Fsucia to Charlotte.
191
With
I am. Madam, with all possible affe<fiioji,
See.
Felicia.
LETTER XVII
Madam,
T is not without the appearance of reason that you are Surprised at the unaccountable manner in which we difpose of our hearts; but if we look around us, we shall find cause to vindicate the grave, the Sedate, and tranquil Amelia, for loving a person of a temper So widely different from her own It is not always a resemblance of ourselves in temper, any more than in features, that constitute the strongest attradlive. On the contrary, the thoughtful mind, confeious of its own incapacity to render itself happy, is naturally charm’d with one whose airy sprightliness is best adapted to give it relies, and vary its pleasures by inspiring the delightful relaxations of the more lively Social enjoyments; while she vivacious volatile temper expedls the lame satisfaction from the Sagacious, and more Sober refledlions of Solid shougbt, .and docent pr udence. Thus
we
rg2 ■  ’
r
rwe
trequemjy find that a contrast of this kind,
gives a variety, which adds a poignancy to
their joys, while those. «. souls nature
Seems to have formed in the same mould, too / ^
often drag on a dull insipid life; or trifle it a way with a mixture of alternate levity and Spleen Yet after all, it must be' confeflted, that however various their tempers, it is absolutely neceltary there sh iuld be a conformity,
at h ast, of pastion and sentiment.
Me THINKS 1 write now with the gravity
of a
opher; and that in accounting for amelia’s tenderness for ‘vlehifont, I have very handsrmely apologised for that of your trifling friend, for the g ave and learned Lucius.
Yesterday being the time we had appointed to pay maiilla’s mother a vifir, my aunt, Amelia and I, fet out on foot, as soon as we had din’d, after having given orders for the coach to fetch us back in the evening. T ae day was exceeding fine; and the air ren deied cool and refrestiing by a gentle breeze, which just waved the yellow corn, that opening in a narrow path gave us an easy and delightful passage;; the bearded ears hung their heavy heads stucharged with myriads of glittering pearls, the fruits of a hasty ihower, which before we had fet out, had refrelh’d the
earth,

19
0|
0
earth, and embalm’d the air with a fragrance, infinitely more pleasing than that which arises from the powder’d toupee of an accomplish’d beau, or the odours which scent your ladyship’s gloves. A thousand clouds with intermingled gold and purple, of various lights and shades, adorn’d the wide, the blue expanse, or dimra’d the too ardent rays of the dazzling fun; while the insatiate eye greedily survey’d the wide stretch’d plenty, or the distant woods embrown’d by Autumn, or glowing with a lengthen’d verdure of various hues. Here friendly chat and innocent gaiety kept up our
Spirits, deluded away the time, and help’d to
{
increase the tender joy. which glow’d in my bosom, at every thought of my Speedily Seeing Lucius. I Saw the farmer, to whom I had given so seasonable a relief, wkh honest front giving orders to his Servants. My heart Sprung again with a bounding joy; I found myself in the fields I had preferv’d in his poltefilon, and felt more charms in the great abundance that Surrounded me from the reflection of its contributing to the advancement of an honest, though unfortunate family, than the most rapacious miser in viewing his hoarded treasures.
He perceived me, when with an humble Scrape vol, I, K and
 ’
and grateful look, he Silently expressed his acknowledgments.
At last we arrived at the end of our walk, when as Marilla had been privately acquainted the night before with our intended visit, we were sure to find Lucius at home; they both met us at the gate, accompanied by their mother, where they all with glowing ecstasy paid us their compliments, and condiusted us into a iueat and Well furnish’d parlour. Here we took Some refreshment, which being over, Amelia Judging by her own heart, that I should be glad of an opportunity of a Separate conversation, afk’d me with a smile, if I was not too weary with my walk, to take a turn with her in the garden, while Lucius and Marilla, with a Sparkling intelligent kind of satisfaction in
their looks, offered their Service to, accompany
/
■us.
her e we had a most tender interview; f explain’d the reason of my conduct, in concealing from him the addresses of Mdlifont, and thanked him for the assistance he had given me, in sparing me the trouble of being any longer teased by his importunities. We thee eonfulted how to procure my father’s consent; but had come to no, determination, wshen, we
were interrupted by my aunt, whom we saw
coming

coming down the alley to meet us. However, she did not discover much surprise at Seeing us together without our companions, who wc^ immediately told her were gone to gather Some fruit, which indeed was the excuse they had made use of in leaving us; but we had hardly made this apology for their absence, when we perceived them returning; and my aunt telling us that she was afraid we should fatigue Gurfelves too much, desired we should walk in; we consented and immediately followed her.
sophronia, lucius’s moshcr, entertain’d
me with all that ease and polite freedom, which
\
is natural to a well-bred woman; and the part she bore in the conversation Sufficiently discovered her good Sense, and the delicacy and justness of her Sentiments, while an air of sweet ness gave a grace to everything she Said. Wc were entertained with Several Subjects, without the least connedlion, most of which were very trifling; but at last, the clergy being mentioned, and several shiart stories told of the jocose manner in which the worthy vicar of a neighbouring parish conferred the greatest benefits, we insensibly became interested in the Subject From the clergy we digrested to religion, an easy transition; when Some of the
K 2
errors
Jq'6
 '
errors of Christians, Sandlified by the venerable name of orthodoxy, were proved inconsistent .with reason, with all our ideas of moral beauty and natural harmony; with all those en gauging portraits of the Deity; with the Swell of humanity which expands our bosoms, refines our ideas, and makes us partake of the divine pleasures of beneficence and conscious
with the kindly imprestion we every
virtue;
we acknowledge to be divine.
w’here receive from a view of Nature, equally lovely in all her works, and equally conspiring to an universal happiness; and, in short, with the plainest discoveries of that revelation which
Man, the noblest part of this lower creation. Said Lucius, is Sunk from the dignity of his being, and represented as naturally incapable of pleastng, by his best a£lions, his kind and benevolent maker. What a resteition on the divine artificer! our very virtues are crimes, and the most perfedit use of all our powers, merit no other reward than eternal damnation! what a preposterous opinion to think of pleasing the Creator by degrading his works! So from having any moral fense, any in wrought love of virtue, we are, say they, form’d with a thouy fand propensities to vice; and there is not a
.crime which ever was committed, but what
lurki
 "
lurks in the breast of every man, as he is
form’d by nature, and to which he is particularly inclin’d. If this be the cafe, a manly
affion and a villainous one are Synonymous
terms; and to say a person behaves like a man,
is to Sav he is a Sodomite, a murderer, a parricide
; and what, if possible, is a greater con
tradi(stio.n still, it is to Say, that he is to the
last degree penurious and extravagant; that he
destroys himself by debaucher)', and yet pines away for want. In stiort, that he asts from
vicious principles So opposite, that they muss; necessarily destroy each other. Sentiments
that in ihemselves are not more monstrous.
than inconsistent with experience, and every .dictate of rcason and common sense. But the
beneficent Father of the universe, whose invariable
2; oodncss is infinite and boundless, has
been So far from cursing his offspring by inspiring
them with Such baleful invenom’d dispositions,
that he has strongly connedied, by
the very starae of our minds, vice and cruelty
with hate, shame and horror: virtue, with a
thousand charms, a thousand lovely attradtives.
Supreme and unrival’d in glory, and glowing
with a conscious sense of his own matchless.
unfading felicity, he creates, to communicate
happiness, and forms a wondrous Scale of be
K 3
mgs,

iqs
fetieia to Charlotte

/
ings, widely to extend the glorious emanai tions of his goodness, He makes it their duty to be happy, and the glory of each individual, like him, to diffuse happiness around him. Ha places them in a state of trial, with every tender Social affection in their hearts, to struggle with each stlfish thought, and gives a ray of his wisdom to direist in what manner to exercise the particular exertions of these Intendering dispositions. What a Subjeist for gratitude;
for the most devout, the most humble and
#
elevated piety! This is the religion of Nature; the generous, the friendly religion of the Bible : that one invariable religion, which will ever be a law to every Species of moral and accountable beings, from men up to the highest order of eelestial Spirits.
Nor can there be a religion, I could not help interrupting, that gives us more exalted Sentiments of the Deity. What Surprising Hiunilicence! The noblest pleasures that can swell our minds, are those which accompany i the pra£iice of virtue; and yet, exquisite as these delights are, they are only a prelude to diviner raptures j they restne the soul, and fit us for that state of being, where our joys (hall be unmixed with care, and uninterrupted by the, struggle of contending palfions? where
 '
99

friendship and gratitude stiall be refined into the purest ecstasies!! every Social ast'effloti ■ attune the soul into the most perfe£i harmony! delightful thought! how lovely is the Deity,
r
and how worthy of our highest esteem; and ' veneration!
You would have Smiled, my de‘ar friend, had you Seen the delight Lucius expressed in' hia countenance at finding my sentiments So" agreeable to his own : his eyes', while T was Speaking, kindled’with unusual brifkness j and " tempered the tender softness of his glances with '
an air of the highest fatisladtion.’'
but these enthasiasts', replied my aunti'whb frorn an affedlation* of humility, have treated their ov/n Species with Such insolent reproach,, 'have not had less regard to the most Sacred'
We can hear without afionish
y
ment the charming ties of virtue blasphemed Ft the foundation of all public and private happi ness, treated with contempt? Strange indeed, ‘ that men should be So insenfible of the strikin graces of a virtuous character 1 that that fa cred law, to which the Deity himfelfpays obedience, should be loaded with the vilest re" " even from the pulpit! A good-natured
Iftfon must feel alsthe humanity of his bosom ^
4/ rise -
ab ligations
200

rise with indignation at the impious prosa nation.
\
However Surprising this may appear, re ply’d Sophronia, yet our wonder will in a great measure vanish, if we consider that the same persons discard the use of reason from religion; for wdiile this is the cafe, nothing can be too absurd to be embraced; nay, absurdity itself, continued stc, has been made a mark of truth, and people have stretched their faith sofar as to give their assent to what they themselves acknowledged to, be impossible. What could the utmost bardarifm of ignorance do more? The Deity, all lovely as he is, glowing with every vinue, and surrounded with the dazzling radiance of a heavenly Smile, is represented as stem and inexorable, weak and partial, as pleased with idle compliments, empty praises, and little tricks of devotion; as supreme in fell levenffe, with relentless malevolence, consssn mg irretrievably before the world began, ninety-nine of every hundred of his future offspring to eternal horrors, and the utmost extreme of au emizing' torture: while’thev, the destined few", happy favourites! triumph in his mercy, and extol this superlative instance of his paternal goodness, and kind partiality. Horrid thought]
cry’d Lucius; what a tyrant I what a monster!
Fflicia to Charlotte.
201
Her I what a devil! — Can we Sorm, an idea of a being more tremendously terrible? A harpy or cerberian monster, with more envenom’d rancour? This is the height of daemonifm; but let the poor heathen howl and tremble before his pagod; let the barbarian pollute with, human blood the altars of his idol; let the ignorant mandarin, the bigoted dervise, or ro misti zealot, wound and torment themselves to please a being who has no existence in na
C
ture; or the lalsty reform’d Christian strive to outvie the pagan, in the frantic reveries of his enthusiafni, virtue and harmony will still b

/
the same; and the Almighty, unpolluted by their praises, will look with pity on the errors of his children; they are all the objects of his impartial regard, and equally entitled to his favour; for as Vir. Hill justly observes“
“and Russian differ hut in name;
“In Natiirds sense all nations are the fame: -
Strange absurdity!! T, that religion should be brought to overturn all the obiiga
D. O
tions of religion! for it is incredible that any revelation should be thought to be true, which supposes the author of it false, malevolent, and cruel. But while our priests declaim again!
u
^ s
moralsty
202
felrcla TO charlottgr
morality, it is no great wonder that it should? be defpiled by the laity; Such gloomy represeu’' tations of religion, Such contemptible difco*urses f virtue, must needs corrupt the minds of the; multitudej and six. the strongest; prejudices against everything Sacred; make our duty looked upon as a burden; and the most pleas ing exercises of grateful piety,, regarded^as an. irksome drudgery.
Our conversation was here interrupted by a Servant, who entering with a letter delivered! it to my aunt, at the Same time telling her,, that as it had been left for her just before our coachman Set out, he thought proper to bring it with him,, She received it with an - air off joy, when breaking it open, and casting her. eyes at the bottom, she told me it came from? my father, and a minute after added with a Smile, and a tone of Surprise, that he was preparing to take a journey to See me. What a t Sudden confusion did this unexpe£led news give me! 'The joy that I was ready to receive,, was Suspended by the shock of a rising appre hension, that Something extraordinary was the caufe of this journey. Sure, Said I to myself,. he cannoti be acquainted with ours mutuaff n! What an alarm did this doubt give sne 1 my heart trembled with a .very painful?
disorder
feucia to Charlotte.

202
disorder; and it now flutters in the same uneasy manner, while I acquaint you that I dread to see him. But what have I done, that I should be afraid of feeino; my father’s fac€? “Oh my my dear Lucius! — to be deprived of the hopes

to see thee no more!
of living with th Oh! I cannot bear to think of it.

It was then --
impossible to prevent my apprehensions from, making some alteration in my countenance.
I endeavoured to conceal them under a look of surprise;; in spite of myself, that surprise had some traces of uncasinefs, — I struggled with myself in vain — my aunt perceived it. — I saw she did; and that increased my disorder; but she had too much goodifiature to increase it still more, by seeming to take notice of it. — Lucius too had his eyes fix’d upon
mine, while I perceiv’d that he every moment
chang’d colour; and appear’d not less alarm’d than mvfelst However it was now time to retire, and I was soon mistress enough of myself to take my leave of these dear friendsvvith
a tolerable good grace. -
What will be the fubje'^l: of my next letter 1 can’t guess; my father’s presence will undoubtedly make a considerable alteration in my affairs, and I am now in the utmost suspense, yet dread to know the reason of his
u


K

204   '
journey. Dear Madam, if you can inform me what I ought to think of it, let me hear from you by the next post.
With my ssncerest reipeffs to his lord’' ship, I am,
Madam,
Tours. &: C
Felicia,
I. E T T E R XVIII
Oh Madam!
H A E strange things to tell you. My father arrived this morning, and has thrown me into Such confusion that I am hardly abile to write to you. I was looking out of my window, bewilder’d with a mazy crowd of useless reflections, and had stood for Some time without motion, when I was rouz’d from this stupid Situation of mind, by a coach and Six, which drove in a cloud of dust at a great rate towards our house, attended by Several Servants, I did not see them till thy were near. They alighted at the gate, and almost in the same moment I heard my father’s voice. forget full of my fears, every care was in an instant swallow’d up by duty; my heart glow’d wish
affection.
  205
ion. It is my father! it is my father I I cry’d allow’d. He lifted up his eyes and Saw me, when starting from the window, I ran downstairs with the utmost eagerness to embrace him. I met him in the hall. I flew into his arms, when turning from me to avoid my embrace, he desir’d me coldly to walk in; but at the same time gave a sigh, and fixed upon me a look, which discovered how much he Suffered by this restraint. Ah, Madam! you can’t conceive what a shock this behaviour gave me. I burst into tears, and went into the parlour, followed by Amelia.
Tell me, my dear cousin, said I, as Soon as I could Speak, tell me what I shall do. How must I Support my father’s anger? Do you think now, I deserve to be treated in this manner? — I can’t bear to think of offending him. I know it is hard for him to use me unkindly. — But Sure he has no cause to give me Such a cold reception. — He has heard of my loving Lucius; but is that Such a crime? Alas! I must be unhappy, and Lucius must be So too!
I WAS interrupted in this bitter complaint, which was intei mingled with Sighs and tears, by hearing my father at the door, who enter’d the room just as Amelia was going to endeavour
20^


your to comfort me. She sat near me, with
her looks fixed upon mine; he saw us both in
a moving situation, and when we lifted up our
eyes to his, the mutual tears that for a moment almost stopped our sight, trickled down
our cheeks, and Seemed to make a strong im
prelfion on his countenance. When turning
to my aunt, who stood behind him at the door,
told her, he desired to be a few riiinutes
alone with me. At this, Amelia arose..
after pressing my hand with the utmost tenderness,
retired with my aunt.
My father, as if he knew not how to behave, and perhaps wanting time to compose his mind, in order to treat me with asternnels Suitable to the Subject of his complaint, and which, I dare say, he had need of all his resolution to Support, took • a few turns about the room, with the appearance of the utmost disorder; but at last growing more composed, he fastened the door and Seated himself by me, giving me a fixed look, which had a mixture of anger and sensibility, while I held do wn my head, drown’d in tears, and almost stifledwith my Sighs; and indeed T was So intimidated by his presence, that 1 hardly durst list up a glance, to observe his countenance., My heart ached in the most painful manner, and Seemed to
struggle

•»*

Feltcm to Charlotte;
e to vent its complaints. At last Seeming to recolle<st myself.... it is with shame. Said he, in a grave tone, that I See you the disgrace of my fan>ily. Foolish girl! what could induce you to forfeit your honour? my fondnefs made
flatter myself with abun f dance of pleasing hopes. I have‘ tonsidered; you as my only child, as the picture of your dear mother, and you mult have been sensible that my whole happiness was bound up ia
yours
What
>7
induce you to thrmv off my authority, and to Suffer yourself to be seduced by an artful designing villain. Alas I is this the fruits of that virtue, and good fense, in which I have prided' myself? Is this the effects of that delicacy and; innocent wit, in which I weakly fancied that, you resembled your dear mother? This the reward of all my tender cares and pleasing? But you shall know that a father’s re fentmept is to be feared. It is still in my
power to punish you. -- -- -- And I affure you,
the rascal that has coir up, ted your innocence,
and made me an unhappy.parent, shall leel the cffedts of my rage.
How was it possible. Madam, for mc to Support Such reproaches from a father, whom I, shad never injured even in thought? To hear
Lucius,
2g8
Felicia to Ckarlott

Lucius, my dear Lucius, reproached in the coarfest epithets! to hear him charged with Seducing me 1 to be thought ungrateful I to be regarded as a moniter, who had no Sense of • honour and duty! my heart rose with indignation. — I could not bear these unjust reflections. — But in the same moment observing the agitations of my father’s countenance, and reflecting upon what he now Suffered for me, I dissolved in affection, and with a precipitation, inspired by a Sudden impulse of soul, threw myself at his feet. Hear me, Sir, hear me, cry’d I, (with a resolution inspired by my innocence, while my eagerness to vindicate myself, filled me with an impatience that made me instantly lose sight of all that dissidence and restraint which had before kept rne filent) let me know
V
of what I am accused— —
(
my honour ?~
— Tell me, dear father.
In what respect I have •how have I offended
?
Can
you r — 1 eii me, aear ratner, — tell me in what instance I have abused your goodness ?~ you alk me that question? returned he in an
inexorable tone? — Have I not fiiflicient reason
to be offended ?< — There, read that, cry’d
_ •
he, and blush to think, that you dare presume to impose upon me by an air of innocence; I know the world too well to Suffer myself to be
deceived by these artifices. You will shere
find
  209
find, that however Secretly you have managed your intrigues, I have been but too well acquainted with them.
Here throwing me a letter, and aiising hassily, he walked to the door with an air that stew’d him not in the lead Softened at the Simplicity of my behaviour; when flopping stort, as if blaming himself for leaving me on the floor, he return’d with equal speed to help me up. But I arose before he came to me, when Snatching up the letter! thought, Sir, cry’d I, in a resolute tone, that I should never be so unhappy as to be refused to be heard by my father; but however unkinily you are now
pleased to treat me, it Shall never make me forget my duty. At this I opened the later,
and he went out of the room. In a few minutes I no longer wondered at his treatment; my whole refentmentwas levelled at the wicked author of those malicious lines; and I could not
help acquitting my father, and thinking his condudi highly reasonable, on a fupposition that he believed those vile afpersions. You yourself. Madam, shall see the letter, that you may judge how grossly I have been abused, and 1 now tranferihe it with the utmost examine fs.

Sir

T. 9.
210
CC
“Sir
« **1^ HO i am intyriy unnown to you my
“^ regard for your onner makes me lay
“before you an afare in which you are parti“ “confarnd though i must confess i have a “uast deal of reluktans at communikatin the “Secret intreges of miss felisia for vrom I have “a grate affecshon but you will no all Sooner “or later i am uery sorry to tell you that un “nown to her aunt Ihe kepes company with a yung gentleman of little fortin wen com“ “with hers but it wud give you too much “confarn to say that her uarty is entirely lost “i hope it is not quite So bad yet howiuar he
“has don her a still grater ingury by korruptin
her mynd god nos nothing but my regard for “her cud make me send you this afliktive neus “euery word of which I ashur you upon my “onner is stridtly treu i wud aduise you to send “for her up to toun as priuatly as posible her “ant loves her as euery body dus that nos her “and it wud be a astikshon to the gud lady “to find that he shud behave So badly while “under her care and as this wud be a confarn “that cud do her no gud it wud be better not “to let her no it i have won more thing to ad
and .that is .that however gilty you find her

\

t

211
you wud treat her gently this my affekshon “for her makes me beg of you remember she « is your child so concluds
Tour and felijtas
sincere thd unnown friend.
“P. S. the yung mans father is a doun “rite lybertin and not wurth a grant.
I AM Sure, Madam, your generous concern for ray happiness makes you now feel much the Same risings of indignation at reading the vile inllnuations of this ridiculous letter that I did, and therefore I need not particularly describe the various pangs of working antipathy it occasioned in my bosom. What gross, what infamous refledhons! But a heart filled with confoious innocence, is the best support against Sander. What little reason have we to boast ef the Superior advantages of education, when persons of the meanest attainments can destroy our peace, and make Such bitter inroads on ®ur happiness I The stupidity and ill spelling of the letter, I was fenlible could not give my father the least reason to fufperst the sincerity of the writer. Since a person of the meanest sense and most illiberal education, is equally as good a judge of faffs, aa those who are pos
i!


Seffed of the most rm'able accomplhhments. And indeed, so fan stom this being an objection, it must appear to him as a circumstance that confirm’d the harefui uisinuations it contained, since he w?'uld naturally suppose, that
a percn who appeared so much beneath me, could have no very particular acquait>tance with me, and confecjuently could have no interest in view in attempting to deceive him, These were Some of the first refledlions I made on this part of mv misfortunes. But who is the writer? said I to myself; this I am particularly interested to know. Since it is of the greatest importance towards clearing my injured innocence, and regaining ray father’s esteem. At this I fix’d my eyes again upon the letter, and fancied it was a woman’s band, while the false orthography convinced me that my conjecture was well founded. But then who had 1 offended? There are none, said I, that I have seen here that I dare fix Such a bale suspicion upon; besides, could malice a lone Seek to ruin me without Some deep laid Scheme of rankling felfistinefs? But whose happiness do I oppose?? know nobody to whose felicity I would not contribute. What must I think? How can I clear myself, without being able to find out the wicked author of this
heavy misfortune?
Thus
 '
21 j
Thus, Madam, I reafon’d then, and thus I reason still, while every reflection, instead of giving me the least light into this dark affair, wraps it in a still deeper obscurity. But
alas! had the whole been as great a falsehood as that part which charges the virtuous Lucius and me with guilt, I should have less to fear; My aunt is ignorant of our tender pastion j I have Seen him without her knowledge; encouraged his addresses without my father’s permission; and still love that worthy Son of an unworthy father; the amiable Son of an abandon’d libertine. How can I confess this without making him suspect that the person to whom he owes this information, is too well acquainted with my weakness to be mistaken in the least particular. The truth of one circumstance will give credit to the rest, and give all too great an air of truth, while my father’s
opinion that Lucius is the author of my ruin,
* ^
will root So deep a prejudice against him, that he will be deaf to all that can be Said in his favour, and hardly ever be brought to hear him vindicated with patience.
All these resseclions passed thro’ my mind with the utmost precipitation; for impatient to find Something to fix upon, that might lead me out of this labyrinth, and teach me how to
calm
214
Felicia to Gharlotte.'
calm my father’s anger, I in an instant collected every Scattered thought, and sought all around me for Some pleastng friendly hope on which I might Support my Spirits, ready to fink under my father’s difpleastire : but my Soitl could glance its eye upon no comfort except •my innocence; and as often as that occurred to my mind, there beam’d through it a ray of peace, which preserved me from finking under this heavy load of difficulties. Amidst these various agitations, my thoughts frequently returned to my father, to the almost infinite instances I have received of his goodness. Intendering thoughts! delightful ideas! though now attended with bitterness. ternefs that melted my soul, and filled my eyes again with fresh stowing tears. But here again, my innocence, Sweetest comfort of the distress! returned again, and made me restest that I was still as worthy of his indulgent regards as ever. Happy, delightful thought 1 O virtue! thou noblest Source of fortitude, thou Sweetest Support of the human mind, how unspeakable is thy value, and how much more than wretched is the mind that wants thy aids!
employ’d in this manner, I Spent a considerable time alone in the paddur, expecting
every moment my father’s return; for which,
however.
A Soothing bit
r
fslicia to CHARLOTTE;.
215
however, I was not yet prepared; when at last a Servant came to tell, me that dinner was upon table, I had hitherto been too deeply engaged to think of dining, and was therefore unprovided with an excuse to prevent it, tho’ in the Situation I was in, it was natural to feel
s
a great deal of reluctance against Sitting at the Same table with my father; and besides, the emotions I had Suffered had entirely taken a way my appetite. My mind, yet too disturbed lor company, made me look upon follitude as a relief, I therefore Sent word that I was indisposed, and desired to be excused;; the next .moment, considering that it would appear very iingular to the family, and perhaps fet the Servants upon Searching for the reason of my behaviour, if I alone should be absent from the table at my father’s coming; and that nothing could appear to them Sufficient to excuse my refusal, I hastily wipm my eyes, and arming myself with .all the courage 1 could collect, made haste into the diningroom, in order to overtake the Servant before he had delivered shis mestage.
; I TOOK my Seat with the rest, with an ait, as calm as possible, tho’ it is not to be sup pofed, that my countenance could be entirely
Jr.
divested of every trace of uneasincfs,
My father
2i6  '
there had his eyes continually fixed upon me with an earnestness that alternately expressed his anger and pity, while I endeavoured to Support his looks with an easy humble confidence. Mv aunt and Amelia regarded us both with
J O
a Silent kind of admiration; and I dare say, there never was an elegant entertainment paf sed over with fewer words. As Soon as the desert was taken away, I drank my duty to my father : this was the first syllable that I had spoken;; though I had not eat a mouthful, neither my aunt nor cousin had pressed me to it. They saw my disorder, and did not question my having cause for uneasiness. Since my father appeared no more at ease than I. I drank, I say, my duty to my father; but my heart was too full to Suffer me to speak it plainly; these words trembled on my quivering lips; for my heart so strongly felt the force of duty, that it would Speak it too : it struggled to Speak it, my fofrnefs would not be restrained, a gush of filial piety started into my eyes, and the moment I lifted up my hand,
hardly knowing what I did, the tears started and fell into the glass. I then Set it down un touch’d. At this circumstance my father seem’d greatly affected. My aunt with tears in her eyes filled me another glass, when looking

2 lying
at her, while the rising swell again almost intercepted my Sight, You wonder. Madam, cried I, at the manner in which I welcome my father — Here she interrupted me, by ordering the Servant that was in waiting to retire : and he being gone I continued; And is it not a thing, to be wondered at? I have not Seen my father before these Six months — that dear father, whose tenderness for me has been too great to be exprefs’d : but alas! his mind is tainted with the foulest Suspicions. O help me to vindicate my honour, and to find out the monstrous author of these infamous lies! I am sure he will be glad to find me innocent 1 — -- -- 1 know he will!
t
Here I threw the letter upon the table, and unable to retain any longer the impetuous glut of Sorrow that now arose too high to be
concealed, I drew out my handkerchief, and
/
hanging down my head, gave free Scope to my tears j my grief would not now admit of restraint, I therefore neither stifled my sighs, nor groans; I fobb’d aloud, and every one in the company bore a part in this melancholy entertainment; they all Sympathised with me, and wept without reserve; even my father could not help joining with the rest; I lifted up my eyes, Swimming In tears, and Saw Some vol, I. L big
/
i


big drops roll down his awful face, when rising hastily, as if he feared being Softened too much to be able to retain his rigour, or dreading that he should lose his judgement in his affection, went out of the room with a countenance that exprels’d more tenderness shan austerity.
As Soon as he was gone, my aunt, taking me by the hand, and laying down the letter j I have been much surprised. Said she, wiping her eyes, at my brother’s behaviour, and have in vain endeavoured to find out the cause of it.
t
He would give me no reason for treating you as he has done; but you have difeovered the mystery. He has been informed of your passion for Lucius: and don’t you really love him? J have for Some time sulpe6led it. .Come, my dear, be stnccre; there is no crime in loving a man of his character. You need not tell me, that you are innocent of what is here laid jto your charge. — I am Satisfied that you are so, and have too good an opinion of you both, 10 entertain the least Suspicion injurious to his Jhonour or yours. You are both virtuous, and both worthy of my brother’s esteem. Ah! Madam, cried I, with a resolution inspired by my grief, will you forgive, my injuring your gqqdaess by concealing it from you? this is
kind
/


i
kind indeed. I do love him — tenderly love him ^love him even more than myself j but indeed. Madam, our mutual passion has been always regulated by the stristeft virtue; — it is an innocent passion; and I assure you, that he loves me too well to propose any ssep that would disoblige my father; nor would he, great as his love is, accept of my hand without his consent, who alone has a right to dis pofe of me. This I know to be true; he has told me To himself, while I have rejoiced in his virtue, and considered it as a moss convincing instance of the purity and Sublimity of his soul.
I don’t question it, my dear, returned ssie, pressing my hand; but who is the author of this malicious letter? I should be glad to be inform’d of that; but Lucius may possible be able to give us some light; I will write to him tonight, and enclose this in it; meanwhile I will take upon me to clear up your virtue, and to give my brother better Sentiments of this amiable young man. — But it is fit he should appear himself; let him be his own advocate, he will plead the cause of his own heart with prevailing eloquence. Dear Madam, cried I, embracing her, is it possible that you can be So very good? Do you indeed think we shall be
h 2 able?
■n 20
Felicia to Charxotte
f
able to remove the invidious impressions that have been made upon my father’s mind? O how happy shall I think myself if I can but regain his affection! for the uneafiness he Suffers on my account is more painful to me than all the effetsls of his displeasure. My aunt embraced me in her turn, and endeavoured to recover my Spirits by her caresses. And, in short, having called for a pen and ink, wrote in the following terms to my dear Lucius,
tt
Sir,
/

ic
Y my brother’s arrival this morrilng, I
find that you and Felicia have been much injured; but to remove the [pain this
news may give you, I offer my best endea
“yours to undeceive him; nor shall my utmost
efforts be wanting to do you justice;
by convincing him that you have a mind “that Scorns to be guilty of what is laid to “your charge in the enclosed libel. Let it be your care to find out the wicked author.
and let us see you as Soon as possible.
pours), c.
US’
'/

This

Ve' — i'

221
This note, I Say, was wrote in the wrapper, Sealed up, and Sent away by a Servant who bad orders to deliver it into his own hand. You See now. Madam, the Situation ot my af sairs; I am upon a crisis which must deter
V
3
mine my Suture happiness or misery. ’ti true, the satissa6iion I have received from my aunt’s goodaess is too great to he exprefted; she has given me hopes, which counter bal lance my Sears; and in the midst of all my un~
3
easiness, my gratitude and affedliomfor her ha Some charms. Some engasinff Sweets, which
engagmo iweets,
o C o ^
will make themselves Sek. But yet, while my father is So offended, I must have a claim to
your pity: and theresore, with the greatest propriety, suhscribe mysels,
Your Ladyship
’3
Moji unhappy Servanty
Felicia
LETTER XIX
Y the last post. Madam, I gave you an account of my father’s arrival, and of the die adful turn his presence made in my affairs;
l3
and
\
222

and I imagine that, fill’d with a friendly impatience, you long to hear whether I have yet,
; To far vindicated my honour, as to recover his esteem, or whether I am still oppress’d with the Same uneasmefs I then labour’d under; I will therefore make haste to gratify your curiosity, and repeat my letters, without waiting the return of the post for an answer;; did you but know how much I need your advice and consolation, you would be as expeditious in writing as I am.
My dear astli(5ied father, I told you, unable' to withstand his natural astediion, and resolving to be guided only by the cool di£iates of bisjud gment, was constrained, in order to keep a mastery over his passions, to retire for Some time, to colleff his spirits;; I took advantage of his absence to write to you my last melancholy epistle, which took me up the whole afternoon; having transcrib’d the ridiculous' letter 1 Sent you a copy of, while my aunt was writing to jlucius,
In the evening, this good lady had the precaution to order the Servants not to enter the’ room, lest they should be a witness of any ex pressions that might shock my delicacy for them to hear, A behaviour that shew’d at once her prudence, and regard for my reputation.
Even

Even at Supper, a dumbwaiter fupply’d the place of an attendant, so that we were entirely at liberty to enter, without restraint, upon the injustice of my father’s suspicions; nor couldi my aunt let stip this first opportunity of affuring’. him, that, notwithstanding the malicious letter which had given him so much uneafiness, fly still retained the highest opinion of my virtue and difcrecioit. But to clear felicia’s imio cence. Said she, it is necessary that we should try to find out the wicked writer; - but as this will probaly require time, you must endeavour meanwhile to divest yourself of prejudices, which may prevent your discovering the truth. It is not whether my niece has placed her af feffions upon a person of a fortune something inferior to her’s, that we are now to inquire aster, but whether it is upon an unworthy ob jeiss;; whether she has violated her regard for virtue; behaved, in any instance, inconsistent with a decent modesty; or had any thoughts of difposing of herself without your consent? In short, it is your felicia’s honour and duty we are to vindicate; and I don’t doubt but we shall be able to do it, to the fatisfaffion of any disinterested person. What then, returned he, would you insmuate, that there is no crime in placing her affefstons upon a man beneath
E 4 iier I
224


X
her? — a very pretty story truly! If she has no more regard for my authority than privately to favour the addresses of a worthless fellow, what ought I to think of her? Is this any instance either of her duty, or modesty? — Nono, I am not fit to be consulted— — old fool her father would be too Scrupulous; he would perhaps consult his daughter’s honour to the prejudice of her inclinations; and it would be time enough to Seek his consent, when it will be of no Service to him to refuse it. Severe as these words were, the manner of bis uttering them added a double sharpness: : touched me in a tender part, arid penetrated my very Soul. What could I do then but burst into tears ?- — into bitter tears, that arose from an agony too painful to be endured. These were all the answer that I could make him; only as I rose to go to bed, I fobb’d out; Indeed, Sir, your suspicions go to my very heart; but it is my satisfaction that I don’t deserve them. Indeed I have never injured you, even
in thought.
You will readily believe that I was now too much indisposed to taste the refreshing Sweets of steep. I was no Sooner laid dowm than I began to give way to a whole crowd of painful restedlions. I considered myself as the most
unhappy

'«

2?5
m
unhappy creature upon earth; and as worthy of the pity of the meanest peasant. My father, said I to niyfelf, looks upon me with stiame! my dear, my tender father hardens his heart against me! I have lost his esteem — lost his affeffion — Had I sacrific’d my palfion for Lucius to him, I might have made a merit of my obedience, and the pleasure he would have received from the refledlion of my duty, would have been Some recompense for the violence I should have done myself. But I have now lost both my father and my lover. What a shock to nature? what a violence to love! Like a wretch the most desolate and forlorn,
I find myself deprived of every comfort — of every comfort except my innocence. — What a group of miseries has this day produced IJ when fill’d with joy at my father’s presences while nature, struggling in my bosom, m me sty to his arms, longing to embrace hiir'f and eager to welcome him upon his arrival, turn away from me with disdain, to treat r |
as a guilty criminal, as the disgrace of life f mily!
Omy heart! how have I been able Sustain the shock I vshat would I not give find out the author of all my troubles? O my dear Lucius!
•<
thou ■ but know ^gony,. the • distraclion of my soul at
» *
$
u

{
L 5
mome
Felicia to cuarlotte *
moment, how nearly would thy despair re jfetable mine! alas! — thou wilt know it too Soon — I stiall never be thine! 1 must bid adieui, to all my pleasmg prospe^s of happiness; they they are vanished, and I shall be miserable!
» - — Q my God! pity my distress, and vin* dicate the cause of my injur’d innocence f Thou art still my friend; and to thee I can appeal as a witness of the purity of my paffiom, of the stnceriiy of my duty, and the integrity of my heart — I must, I will confide in thy goodness— — —
refiedions like these I Spent the greatest part of the night, while steep seem’d to sty from my heavy eyelids, parch’d up and drain’d, f every tearnor was it till my usual time of lifing, that, compos’d a little by some pious thoughts; I fell into a stumber, in which I continued ’till noon. I then arose, extremely in difposed with a violent pain in my head; when Amelia, thinking the air, which then blow’d; with a pleasing freshness, might give me Some; relief, engag’d me to take a turn in the fields. But I shall omit the conversation which pafs’d; between us, which indeed was as gloomy as possible. The thoughts of her own happiness, fa sincere is her affedfion, could not prevent hei bearing an engaging part in my af
stidions


Fslicia to Charlotte.
22t
si(stions; and though the day is fix’d for her union with Mellifont, she seem’d to lympa thife in my griefs with as real a sorrow as is her heart likewise was devoid of all joy;
Upon my return I found myself much more diforder’d than when I went out, and? therefore, by my aunt’s advice, had a light dinner provided for me, and brought into my; chamber, where I din’dwith Amelia, and that being over, was persuaded to try if sleep wtuld give me any relief; - and indeed, after an hour’s repose, found the pain in my head much abated; I then went downstairs, and inquiring for my aunt, was told, that she was in the parlour with my father and Prudilla, who had just come to pay us a visit I hesitated at first to confider whether I should join them or not; but considering that to a void my father’s presence w'ould only encreafe his opinion of my guilt, I resolved, in spite f my reluctance, to bear a part in the conversation; or at least to make one of the com* pany.
As Soon as I enter’d the parlour, I could Slot help taking notice of frudilla’s extraordinary complaisance, which was the more remarkable as she had lately treated me, whenever I chanced to see her,. with a referveff
L - 6- cddnestt;,
%
\
22s

coldness, that made me fancy I had offended her; but now she oppressed me with her caresses; and seem’d to strive to outdo herself by the excess of her complaisance. My dear. Said she, aster inquiring my health, L am extremely Sorry to See you So much out of order. Really you are more indifposed than you are willing to think yourfeff. I am afraid our country air don’t agree with you. don’t you think so too, my dear? I think you feel a little feverish; God forbid a relapse!! are not yet recovered of a fever, that had like to have prov’d mortal. I thank you. Madam;
for your concern for my health, returned
\
but indeed I have no apprehensions of that kind. Mine is only a slight indifposstion. A pain in my head and lowness of Spirits, which I hope will Soon be removed: I am pretty subject to these disorders. You have; I think, a very delicate constitution, she replied, but even that is a great mercy, when it has Such a happy estedi as I observe it to have in you. For a person so young, to have a mind fix’d upon abetter world! to give Such early proofs of your being one of the elect— — Sir continued she, you are a very happy rpan ia beina; blefs’d with a daughter who has So
much grace and piety
Every bod'r here are
charm’d.
h ..y
.. d
Felicia to Charlott^'
229
charm’d with her behaviour, and I don’t think there is a person living, that can give her an. ill word.
My father here shook his head, and gave a Sigh, and at the same time fmil’d with an air that feem’d to thank her for her good opinion of me. My aunt fmil’d too, but with this dif ferencej that her looks did not express the ledst degree of gratitude; for the Smile which in my lather’s countenance discovered a Secret plear Sure, imprelted only upon her’s a fatyrical cash She knew Prudilla j my father was entirely ignorant of her character; and tho’ she could not, as she afterwards told me, dive into her motive for giving me Such devout panegyrics, yet she could not help thinking there must be Something at the bottom of. all this that she ought to discover. She shrugg’d up her shoul
I
ders with an air of distrust, her eyes ran over each of our faces, as if she sought to know, by the traces she found there, whether our thoughts were conformable to her own. Meanwhile
Amelia, who sat next me, jogg’d me with her elbow, and looking in my face, bit her lips, and feem’d. to say : Observe— — egregious flattery I
I AM glad, said my father, after a moment’s kesitation, to hear So good an account of my
daughter;
fieucia TO Charlotte
daughter; but the opinions of our friends are no always the most just; they are blind to GUI foibles; and those few perfections we have, they are So complaisant as to magnify much above the truth. But did you never. Madam, continued he, hear the least reflection upon felicia^s character? No, Sir, upon my word; not a Syllable, I assure youj Said she, with the utmost: earnestness; there is not a person living that can give her an ill word. She is So much beloved, that if the consideration of her health, or any other reason, should engage you to take her with you to town, everybody that knows her would be extremely afluicted, But if her health makes it necessary, it would be an injury to hex to deflre her stay; however, we should be extremely Sorry to Sole her agreeable edifying company. I don’t doubt it return’d my aunt, but do you talk of removing her from the fragrant breezes of the country to the Smoke of London, for the sake of her health? the doclors are here all against you; in my opinion Felicia is much better where she is. Nay, rejoin’d my father, I have no objection to the place. This house stands in a very delightful Situation } and the bloom upon amelia’s countenance is to me a Sufficient proof of the purity of she air, I shall
mt

5




V


advantage she would re
not dispute the point with you, return’d pru dilla, all constitutions, you know, are not a like; and for my part, I am so much convinced that London would agree better wish
#
Miss Felicia, that I could consent to lose her company, for the ceive from it, in recovering a more perfect state of health. don’t you think. Mils Felicia, said she in a fawning tone, I should make a considerable sacrifice in foregoing the pleafure of your conversation, purely for your advantage? But my good friends here don’t seem to be of my opinion : whatdoyou think, of it? you are the best judge j were you not stronger, more brisk and lively when you lived: in town than you have been Since? I think I: heard you say you were. No, Mad am ^ I never said any such thing, replied!,, in a peevish tone, (Surprised at what could be the reason of her desiring me to return to London.) Did not you? I really thought you did, returned she again, I am glad to find I was mistaken; for indeed I desire nothing more than to be bless’d; with the continuance of your improving conversation. I was saying t’other day, to a certain lady of my acquaintance, that it would, be a great misfortune to us all to lose you; fox. positively, said I, a young lady of such a
holy.
2 St

holy and virtuous life is 'very hard to be met
with. She was of my opinion, and tho’i
% _____________________________________
don’t love to praise people to their faces, I
can’t help saying, that we talk’d I don’t know
#
how long on your piety.
But I weary both you, Madam, and my' self, with relating tattle of no consequence. Hitherto everything went on smoothly. Pru^ dilla had attempted to persuade my father to take me with him to town; but for what reason I could not then imagine; her arguments however, prov’d unfuccessful; \yhen feeing me discover Some marks of uneasmest, ssie tried again to cajole me with the most ridiculous kind of flattery, which was the less insupportable, as it employed my father’s thoughts, and prevented him from entering upon a more painful fubjetst. All this w’hile everything had the air of mystery; but her dark designs were Soon to be staid open, when the very praises she So liberally bestowed upon me were to turn to her own confusion. I .should have
told you that the Servant I mentioned in my
« * _
last, to have been Sent to Lucius, with orders to deliver the letter, which has been the cause of all my sufferings, into his hand, returned without an answer, he not being at home;
he was therefore Sent again yesterday at noon,
and
Fflicia to Charlotte.
233
and returning about three hours after, Kiy aunt was call’d out to Speak to him, just at the time when Prudilla was in the midst of her devoutly fulsome panegyrics, in which I let her proceed without interruption. My aunt’s stay was very short, for she returned in two minutes after she left us, with a countenance inflamed vyith anger; her eyes Sparkled with resentment, and every gesture exprefs’d a rage tco violent to be restrain’d; when Sitting down for a few minutes, to recover herself, she perused a letter fly had in her hand, while we all kept Silence, and, big with expectation. seem’d to wait for the difeovery of Some important Secret. For my part, 1 knew not what to think; I was unacquainted with the servant’s being Sent this last: time to Lucius, for he was dispatched to him, while I was in my chamber. H is true, as I had nothing to reproach myself with, I had no reason to fear my aunt’s reproaches; but yet, as I had already been greatly injured, I could not help dreading Some further practises against: me; I therefore observed her behaviour, in order to anticipate a difeovery, in which I did not doubt my being concerned; but I had not watched her a minute, before I guefs’d the whole, and thought
myself able to difeover the'eaufe of those strong
emotions
^34-
 '
emotions which agitated her generous Soul, She frown’d, she bit her lips, she cast a Scornful glance at Prudilla, that expressed both her anger and Surprise; and then with a look of difguss, continued reading for half a minute
longer; when, as if unable to proceed, she re ‘ peated the Same marks of aversson and asso nishment: at lass, laying the letter upon the table, and looking at Prudilla, Did you ever hear. Madam, said she, the least refle<stion upon Felicia's character?? you ever hear her virtue, her prudence, or her reputation call’d in question? non — o. Madam, returned she, with Some confusion j at the same time changing colour, while my aunt rivettinghereyesto her’s. seem’d to increase her disorder? But why do you alk me that question again? added she, with a hesitationthat shew’d she was greatly alarm’d : you don’t fuspedl me of -- of — —
injuring her So much as to Say the contrary You then Sincerely believe^her to be perfectly virtuous, resumed my aunt? Yes, Madam,, indeed I do, said she, upon my word, i do 5 as virtuous as myself. Here her face,, whicst a moment before was covered with a livid paleness, was now all of a ssamsi Yes, and a:, great deal more So, Madam, replied my aunt,, or I am much. mistaken- -- — -- do yoit
mean
am
  235
mean. Madam? cried Prudilla, rismg, and casting a glance at the door, have you a mind to affront me? A great deal more So! I protest I don’t understand you. — A great deal more So I — A great deal more virtuous than I! — Is this the manner in which you treat your friends? — Somebody has told you that I
have writ — they have told you that a — I
have Said Something to Miss felicia’s prejudice and you are unwise enough to believe them; but it is a lye, Madam, continued stie, raising her voice, an arrant lye; as great a falfliood as ever was invented. I thought. Madam, you had too good an opinion of me to fufpe£l: my being guilty of Such a thing. But ladies, your Servant — your Servant, Sir. I shall know how to resent this treatment! ha! mighty pretty! more virtuous than I!
Here she flew to the door in a violent rage; possibly to avoid any farther explanations : while Amelia jogg’d me with her elbow, and whifper’d; Did you ©bferve the word writ? She had like to have confefs’d all at once; she knows the contents of the letter; and that there is no name fubfcrib’d, as well as if she had read it this moment. O guilt, continued she, shaking her head, what a fool dost thou make of ws! In reply, I only smil’d, and shook
my
236  '
my head too — In the mean time, Prudilla was
pulling the lock, while she found all her endeavours to open the door prove fruitless; for my aunt in coming in, forefeeingthat it would be difficult to detain her long enough to coii vince my father of her guilt, had wisely turned the key, and put it in her pocket,
Prudilla was now enraged almost to a
degree of madness, and turning about, called
/
out aloud, Open the door. Madam. By what authority do you pretend' to detain me here? Open the door, I say, or i’ll break it open. She here thundered at it with her feet, while my aunt. Smiling, cried, in a Soft tone. Come,
— Softly — pray don’t expose yourself to the derision of my servants. Pray, Madam, be advised; this passion don’t become you — Indeed it does not; 'it would almost make one fufpedi you of something very bad. Dear Madam, be so good'as to Sit down; you must not leave us so Soon; upon my word we can’t part with you yet. My father all this while Seemed fill’d with the greatest astonishment; he appear’d neither to know how to at, norhvhat to say; however,, reflecting at last, perhaps, that my aunt must have Some extraordinary reason for this change
of behaviour to a person, whom a quarter of
an
come. Madam, Softly, Softly
faicia TO Charlotte. 237
an hour before she treated with much politeness, he arose, and taking Prudilla by the
hand, led her to her chair; at the same time entreating her to compose herself When, feeing it was to no purpose to make any farther resistance, she peaceably refum’d her seat; and fixing her eyes upon the floor, waited with the utmost uneasiness for what my aunt had further to add. Her looks were now de jedled and melancholy, and it was easy to See the relu£lance she felt at being obliged, in Spite of herself, to hear the mortifying things Sne had reason to expedf.
What is the matter? cried my aunt, feeing her Seated; you appear strangely difcom pos’d; but however, I must have Some farther discourse with you,, You have been saying abundance of agreeable things of my dear niece, for which she is undoubtedly extremely oblig’d to you; but is sly really so virtuous, pious and difereet as you have represented her? pray tell us all ou know of her, (and then putting on her fpeilacles, and taking the letter to my father out of her pocket, she proceeded in a slow, reading tone) and don’t show Such vaji deal of relubtance at com mu~
ni eating the secret in trigues of Miss don’t know y^hat you mean, Madam, replied
228

plied she. You treat me very unworthily: very unlike a gentlewoman. Why, is not this letter yours? return’d my aunt. No, Madam, she replied : how should it be mine? I Scorn to use anybody ill, much less miss Felicia. ’twas barbarous to suspedl me of a crime of this nature; but we are all liable to be llandered, miss Felicia, added she, wiping her eyes, why don’t you take my part? I have often vindicated you on the like occasson, I could not bear to hear anybody use you ill; ’tis cruel then in you to hear me treated So monflroufly on your account. I humbly thank you. Madam, returned I, tho’ I can’t see that you could be put to much pains in vindicating my reputation, when you have never heard, as you say, the least ill word of me. This produced a general smile, only Amelia, delighted with the thought of Speedily feeing my innocence cleared up, in the presence of my father, could not forbear indulging the ill natured pleasure of encreastng prudilla’s confusion, by a triuniphant laugh. When my aunt refum’d, with that Superiority in her air, which conscious virtue gives over the meanness of de tedled guilt. Come, come. Madam, these Subterfuges and low evasions Serve only to Set your crimes in a more glaring light: Nor do I ex

^39
pesi to hear anything else but Such absurd contradictions, while you endeavour to clear yourself of those base and Scandalous aclions, which it is in my power to prove against you. This letter, this vile, this infamous and malicious letter, which equally shows the abandon’d character and ignorance of the writer, is yours; I know it is nor will anything you can say persuade me to believe the contrary. — .Dis your hand — and it exactly agrees with another I have here, that discovers the motive of your actions, and lays open and naked the wickedness and deformity of your corrupted soul. Is it for this you affect to
appear virtuous, to practise the blackest vices with a better grace? to give an innocent mind all the distress, and shame, and Sorrow, which .only a guilty one, like yours, ought to Suffer? To etrange the affeciions of an indulgent pa .rent from an only child, the delight of his life, the object of his dearest hopes and fondest wishes? To throw a damp over all his pro specls of joy, by representing her as guilty, as a disgrace and reproach to his name, whom he has justly admir’d and lov’d for her virtues. Blush, Madam, if you have any sense of shame, or the least degree of that extraordinary modesty, to which you make Such mighty pretences i
/
'A....

 '
man
tences j blush, and look into yourself with horror. O my stars! for one of your years to attempt to delude a young man — a very young
and to attempt to frighten him to a compliance with your lewd desires, by threat ning to deprive him of his mistress!! impudence! — And to dare to attempt it too! — to attempt it by such base methods! — But to finish your shame, and convince my brother, that what I have Said is but too true. i’ll read this vile letter.
Here, putting on her fpe6tacles, she began in the slow tone of a person reading a hand almost unintelligible.
Unkind Lucius,
IF I dejtred to meet you in the dark lajl night, it was only to save my blujhes. — How modest this was 1 interrupted Amelia, while my aunt proceeded, come tonight, and Sit refuse you nothing
Prudilla had sat all this while in a stupid kind of amazement, with a countenance on which was painted all the horror, and rage, and mortified deje6uon, that guilt and unmalk’d hypocrisy could give it. Her mouth was open, every feature distorted, and her whole frame
trembling and convulsed. She continued unable

24. r
able to Speak, unable to interrupt what gave
her such pain to hear. But now a Sudden impulse
of shame made her start from her seat,
and Snatching part of the letter out of my aunt’s
hand, in a violent pastion, tore it to pieces: crying. This is too much. Madam; nobody
could bear it: -- -- It is a forgery, -- -- a curled
forgery. While my aunt. Smiling with an air
of contempt, cast her eyes upon a Small piece
she held fast in her fingers, which presenting
to my father, he read the following words,
which I have now before me,
fuse my requeji or tell
w to be revenged on your
acquaint her father with
Tour blujhin
You are ready now. Madam, to wonder how I could think of giving you this unintelligible fragment, under which was remaining the three first letters of her name, for I can’t now be suppos’d to be in a disposition to puzzle you with riddles; but however insignificant it may appear, it not only serv’d to convince my father, that the hand was exactly the Same as that in which the letter was written, that had given us So much uneasiness, hut assisted my aunt in recolledling the whole lines, of which these were a part j which she might ea
V QL. I, fily
242

Sily do, as it was hardly half an hour Since she had read the letter entire j and then indeed.
they appear’d of the greatest confequenee, stnce they explain’d the motive of this dark proceeding.
My father having compar’d this piece with the letter on the table, return’d it to my aunt, who looking at it with attention, after a moment’s consideration, told us, she remember’d the lines ran thus :
BUT if you refuse my fond requejl, or Ull anybody what you know I would have a fecrety I know how to be revenfd on your idol, that you dote so much upon, and w'nl pofuvely acquaint her father, with everything you would hide from him: Your blujhing, c.
These I affure you, continued my aunt, were exactly her words. O monstrous I cried Prudilla, throwing away the paper, which she had tore into Small pieces, monstrous indeed! what vile insinuations! that I should be suspected of Such crimes! but my piety and modesty are too well known for anybody to believe it. I charg’d with thinking of a fellow! an odious, nasty fellow! But i’ll still be reveng’d : I will make him Smart for it. I that never had an indecent thought in my life!
I think of a filthy fellow! No, no. Madam,
my
/

243
my reputation for chastity is too well established for anybody to imagine it. It is a lye j and for what I know, you, Madam, may have a hand in it: but I can see through your plots. This, Sir, is a contrivance between Lucius and your wicked daughter, whom I never fufpe£led ’till this moment; they would be reveng’d because I was enough your friend to oppose her marrying such a villain, Such a debauch’d, lewd villain. And so having my letter there, they must needs counterfeit my hand. Here she forced a ridiculous, affcdled laugh, and then proceeded. La! Miss, I did not think you had been so cunning. But you shall know that my character is above censure.
It would be impossible. Madam, to describe ail the strange contortions, the convulssve gestures, and affcdicd airs, with which this speech was utter’d. She had at first the very look of a fury; she grinn’d, she star’d, she stamp’d and walk’d about the room, stuttering her fan, while her countenance, as well as every action, exprefs’d the Swell of rage, the sting of confeious shame, and all the mortifying pangs that could distort and rack a corrupted heart, asham’d of being difeover’d, too proud inge nuousty to confess its guilt, and too much heated by passion to attend the little decorums
m2 of
244

/
oi her character. But at last, thinking, m the heat of her rage, she might throw all upon Lucius and me, and perhaps persuade f»y father, at least, that she was ignorant of those crimes which touched her most to the quick, she chang’d her part, and Swallowed up by the thoughts of revenge, forgot 'shat by this con tradidlory behaviour she took the most effectual way of destroying at once her character, and discovering the deformity of her black, a bandon’d soul. But she was incapable of re stedlion, and hurried away by a torrent ofpas sion, catch’d at she first relief that offer’d; a relief shat made her forget her shame, and feel a shadowy dawn of triumph. Good God? can there be worse miseries than those which arise from guilt? what destrudlion does it occasion, while its very reliefs plunge us into more aggravated wretchedness, into deeper horrors!
My father now unable to contain his indignation arose, and damping the triumphant Smile, which just began to quiver on her countenance, by a stern and contemptuous glance. Madam, cried he, don’t think it in your power to impose upon me by thcse low artifices; I can see through all these doublings, the weak Subterfuges of an abandon’d' mind. If my
daughter
Fslicia to Charlotte.
245
daughter has no crimes but what Such a vile
vp
hypocrite as you can reproach her with,. I (hall do her the justice to think her innocent.: What a beam of joy, atthefe words, shot through my soul. My aunt now arose, and opening the door, cried. Begone, Madam, for your brother’s sake 1 shall be more tender of your reputation than you deserve, but never presume again to enter into my house. Go, and blush in secret— — am sorry that ever I knew you. Here Prudilla left us, hanging down her head, and muttering Something we could not perfectly understand.
But I find I must break off. When I began this letter, I fancied it would be very short j bat I am got before I am aware, to my usual length. Sure I must be an excra vasant lover of writing to send you Such long epistles; the post is ready to fet out, andt have but just time to repeat my assurances that I am, and ever shall be.
Your ladyship’s
Miojl affedlionau Friend,
Felicia.
Ms
L E T
v46
LETTER XX
• ^
/. ■
t
S fc^n, Madam, as Prudilla was gone, i with the thouphts of what had
past’d, an^rcharm’d with the delightful pros pe£f of a speedy reconciliation with my father, I was going to embrace this favourable moment of throwing rnyfelf at his feet, and begging to be restored to his esteem; but I no Sooner rofc up in order to make these fub mistions, than, stopp’d by the pride of virtue, I restectcd that I had already made too many attempts to Soften Kis unjust anger; and that,
i‘^^ be was now convinc’d of my innocence, it did not become me to entreat, for what I had
Shall J, like a
criminal, laid I to myself. Supplicate for for?
? — what have I offended $ — It is
a right to demand from him.
for goik to stoop So low, innocence has no need
At this thought i Ikt down a

ain, attd my father and my aunt, ftdl warm with lefentment, being now seated too, could not help making Some refie^ions on the odious deformity of prudilla*s mind
What an abandoned hypocrite! cried my father, with a look still disturbm by paon, what a vile incendiary I but how ridiculousty inconsistent was her conduct! I confess I am
not

247
fiot able to think it, in any instance, agreeable to common sense;; can I determine which is the most remarkable, her folly, or her wick edness. What a heap of contradlffions 1 of absurd, palpable contradictions! Really, Sir, replied my aiint, I can’t think her So inconsistent with herself as you do; her artifices appear to me all of a piece. Thinking Felicia an obstacle to her criminal desires, she endeavours to prevail with you to send for her up to town; you unexpectedly come to Search into the truth of what she had alleged against your daughter; when, dreading a difeovery that Miight prove fatal to her reputation, she comes
to clear herstlf of shipsdon, by comtra
everything she had laid in the letter; and at the same time colouring over her artifices the grostl'st flattery, endeavours to
persuade us, that our air dont agree with her
'i,
and thus, by a concern for her
ion of the strictest friend

health, and an ship, she flattered herself with carrying on her grand design, which is still the removal of your daughter. And, as to the rest of her condudf, contintied my aunt, it is easy to be accounted for, from the strong perturbations of a guilty mind, terrified at the thoughts of a difeovery,; ind therefore in too great a ferment to attend
M 4
to
A

to the nice decorums which were ncceffarv to carry on Such a difecult design, and too much perplexed to Secure herself by the Subtle aids of a ready imagination. She affects to appear a lady of the stridlest piety, aird most unble milli’d Sanctity of life; stie is the censor of the neighbouihood j and not the Smallest fault Can escape her notice; judge then, how hard it must be to carry on this difguile when so
closely attacked,, and how terrible the apprehension of being Seen in her true deformity.
ri&ht, right, cried my father, she is more Subtle than I imagin’d, at least I ought to think S, added he, in a tender tone, in vindication of my too easy credulity. — I have then injur’d my Felicia ~r could hear no more — 1 flew into his arms, while he, feeing my intention, arose and stepp’d forwards to receive me. What a delightful, painful moment!
O MY dear friend, you can’t conceive even a distant idea of half the satisfaction and joy I felt ?.t this instant. s(«3iething like the voice of nature hush’d my troubled soul into a peaceful transport, into a rapture less tumultuous, though not less pleasing than that of two meeting lovers. My life seem’d to run up to its
source, and to return back again in a Sweeter
and more tranquil stream.
I embraced my
fasher
  249
father as if I had not Seen him till that moment, as if that was the happy instant of his arrival. Every care, every trouble was then forgot; my present joy took up all my thoughts, and all those thoughts were ecstasy. My father, having tenderly embraced me, with the affe£hon of a parent who had found a child more than doubly lost, while nature rising in hrs eyes, fwell’d into a tear, and roll’d down his awful cheek's. Seated me in a chair that was next his own, and taking hold of my hand, M}'’ dear Felicia, Said he, while all the parent gusti’d in his e^'es,. I have dearly suffer’d in too easiiy believing thee guilty; but canst thou, forgive the disquiet I have given thee, and overlook
this weak credulity, that -- ^ — Dear
Sir, cried I, interrupting him, unable to hold out any longer, and almost asham’d of his con defcension, I can’t bear to hear you.. Is this the language of a father to. a daughter.? No, Sir, it shall never be.yours to me; .you .oppress me too much by this unmerited, goodness. The terrible difqi/iets we have bdtb felt, - must be plac’d to prudilla’s account. But I hear tily forgive her; she has been fufficbniiy morr listed: we will think of'her thieii no.more. My condu(st, my resignation toyowr will, shall
sufficiently show how little I delervc her flan *
M. 5
ders
250

ders. You shall know me to be dutiful; I
^ ■«
will obey you in everything you can desire.
Here he pressed my hand, and after a short Silence, turning to my aunt, alk’d who the person was, on whom I had plac’d my affections. He is. Said she, (for here, Madam, I can’t help repeating her words, she talk’d So charmingly) he is a young gentleman, of a family not inferior to ours; but this is a trifling circumstance, when compared with his personal virtues. He has a noble dignity of Sentiment, a generous and humane heart, a delicacy of soul that renders him equally beloved and admired. This, Sir, is the charatster I give of him - and I don’t question. Sir, but you’h find it stiiifily just. If you inquire a broad you will hear too of temperance, affa bility, an engaging temper, and, in short, of
4
: fall the virtues you would wish to see in a son-in-law. I am Sorry to hear it, returned my father; it will then be So much the harder for my daughter to comply with what I have to propose to her. I have engaged my word to solicit her consent to marry the Son of one of my most intimate friends; and have altur’d him, that she pays So striif an obedience to my will, that he need not doubt of my success. He has a fortune Superior to her’s, a
circumstance

ti
circumstance that I cannot overlook, nor does he want any qualification to entitle him to the chara^er of a worthy man, or a gentleman. Let me see now, Felicia, added he, ad drefiing himself to me, that you can obey my inclinations rather than yovr own; for I will not do you the injury to imagine, that you have So far engaged yourself without my consent, as to be unable to go back. Sir, replied I, with my eyes fix’d on the floor, I am all obedience. I never propofedj to marry without your approbation; but let me at least beg that I may have time to conquer my heart, and Subdue my rebellious inclinations. I will study to obey you, and do all In my power to render myself worthy your esteem. This, my dear, returned he, is all I desire. [It would indeed be a shock to decency and virtue, as well as the greatest injury to the man thou wouldst endeavour to render happy, wert thou forced into his arms, while thy tenderest affections were placed upon another, ssut time, and the perfedions of the gentleman I have chosen for thee, will, I hope, make that deiirable change, which will be necessary to complete the felicity of you both.
Could our happy reconciliation be concluded with a Subject more capable of civingi
. M 6
252

damp to my rising joys, and to the exquisite fa tisfa£iions of filial affection;; heart, though dissolved in duty, fdt the whole force of this lass demand, and at the same instant that I gave up all power oer myself, and consented to foifake my dear Lucius, he appeared present to my mind, in all his charms, in all the radiant charms of virtue, drooping under his unhappy lot, while the tender languishment of his soul feem’d to reproach my too ealy compliance. But what could I do? could I refuse anything to a father, who had a right to demand everything from me? No; that was impossible, I was then in a difposition to pay him the moss rigorous obedience. Nor iiideed could he have made any request that wot Id have given me equal pain to grant: for wealth and splendour, and all the alluring gaieties of life appear but trifles, when compared with the more important interests of our hearts. Love, in the very instant whfcn I endeavoured to give up the soft, the tender passion, resumed its empire, and in spite of all my refolutipn, flow’d in upon my soul, and embitter’d the generous efforts of my duty; nor could T thus formally resign the ecstatic thought of Spending my life with Lucius, without feeling Some of
ihe most cruel pangs. However, endeavouring
to

255
to collect myself as much as possible, by recalling the pleasing ideas of our reconciliation, I assiimm an air of ease and ressgnation; but as this was a situation very difficult to Support long together, and as I found myself still disordered with the pain in my head, I feiz’d the first opportunity of retiring to my chamber;
where ray Supper being brought to me, I went to bed.
I SHALL not. Madam, attempt to deferihe the opposite passions I had to struggle with, now I was retir’d from company, and was at liberty to indulge all the various refledhons that intruded themselves upon my mind. It is Sufficient to Say, that I felt a confused and disturbed mixture of pleasure and pain. But whether the reliefs I found from the consideration of having regained the favour of an indulgent parent, together with the thoughts of the joy he felt at finding me still innocent, were more powerful than all the cause I had for uneasiness j or whether my Spirits finking under the pleasing .flow of those dutiful affections which I had indulged without restraint, made me more heavy than usiial, I Soon fell into a delightful slumber which lasted till morning, when I f und myself perfectly recovered from every indispofition: but the moment
!
254

menti open’d my eyes, the dear idea of my lover returned again upon my mind; while I recoliesed his air, his words, his gestures, the; parity of his soul, and the Sublimity of his virtues, all had a thousand winning graces; pleasing in the review, yet painful in the idea of their being nothing to me. Since I must forget to admire, forget to love this dear engaging man, whom my heart represented as all lovely.
I WAS in this sttuation. Madam, when I wrote you my last letter, which I began as Soon as? had slipped on my clothes, and which took me up great part of the day in writing; and indeed, though I then fill’d two sheets of paper with my Scribbling, I ought in stridl pro priety to have carried it thus far. But my adventures come in Such Swift succession, that I can’t pretend to keep pace with them. I have a very interesting Scene to relate, and as I foresee it will take up too much time for me to give it you now entire, I chuse to defer it till my next.
With my most humble respects to his Lordship, 1 am,
Touriy c.
Felicia.
LET

25.5
LETTER XXI
Dear Madam,
HAD Such a variety of painful and agreeable things remaining, when I concluded my last, that it was with the extremest relu£lance I found myself obliged, either to break off, or to give you Such a loose general account of the changes in my affairs, as would be entirely unaffe£l: ing j or elfe, after having rais’d your curiosity, to break off, and give you the pain of waiting several days in a tedious Suspense. But I have now an opportunity of continuing my story, without any of those inconveniences.
The day after that in which I was restored to my father’s favour, and lost to the pleasing joys of love, and all the flattering delights I had form’d an idea of, the Sweets of the most innocent Sympathies, and the uniform transports of a blissful union of souls; the day after this impotent one, I say, I Scarcely Saw my father ’till the evening : for having Soon after
I arose in the morning, tenderly inquired into
%
the state of my health, he left us to Spend the day with Some neighbouring gentlemen. Upon his return we were all Surprised to find him
ruifled
35^

ruffled and disturb’d by, pafflon; and naturally
inquiring what was the cause of his uneasinefs,
how great was my astonishment and concern
to hear him tell me, that he had received the
grossest insults from lucius’s fasher 1 ’tis true.
Said he, he was disorder’d with wine j but it is also true too, that he has affronted me in
the presence of Several gentlemen, ina manner that I can’t help resenting. As I had given him no cause of offence, everybody took my part; and, as is usual on Such occassons, freely gave me an account of the Several debaucheries of his life j he is guilty of every extravagance; and is, they tell'me, just upon the brink of' ruin. Can I think of being allied'to Such a' wretched family! No, child; I must repeat my request, that you would never more entertain the least thought of his unhappy Son;
Tho’ I had before hardly any hopes of ever obtaining Lucius, yet I could not hear this repeated injundion, without feeling a great addition of pain. My father was now confirm’d in his opposition to my desires, and had fdme reason to be averse to out union. Could I
'I
then entertain the least distant thought of a
• • I
change in my affairs? I durst not even think ' it possible. I had not the least glimmering * hope of ever being happy, uhlefs I could erafc j
from
Fslicia to Charlgtti.
257
from my heart, the tender impressions I found there of my dear Lucius, and that seem’d as great an impossibility as that I should ever obtain him. I was So much struck with this thought, that I was hardly able to make an answer, and only replied, I am extremely Sorry for it. Sir; but rf you knew Lucius, you would be far from thinking him guilty of his father’s crimes, of which he is perfectly incapable; but 1 shall say no more, I will study to obey you.
My aunt, perhaps thinking this an improper time to vindicate my lover, as my father was not a little disturb’d with passion. seem’d to avoid entering into the fubjetst; but melli font, who as he was upon the point of being united to Amelia, had been fully let into the state of our affairs, and who was now present, could not help vindicating his friend, with a warmth that greatly increased my esteem for him; and which I law, by amelia’s eyes, was not much less pleasing to her; but all he could say had but little effect on my father: his most forcible arguments could not persuade him to believe, but that the vices of a parent must have Some este^l: on the minds of his children. Tis true, he was not now in a difposttion to hear reason, especially on a fub j[e(st lb opppstte to the tumultuous state of his
own
258

own mind, which had fix’d prepossessions almost unconquerable. But he was Soon in a better disposition;; himself removed all his prejudices, and convinced him of his innocence, and in a happy moment inspired him With the highest estee«.
The next morning, as I lay longer than usual I breakfasted in bed; a thing very uncommon in this part of the world • where, as I have told you, it is not unusual for fine ladies to rise with the fun; but I had Scarcely drank my chocolate, when Amelia came running into my chamber, to inform me that Lucius was just come, and that he was now in in a close conversation with my aunt. seiz’d with a Sudden flutter and perturbation of Spirits, I leap’d out of bed and fbp’d on my clothes, with as much Ipeed as possible; at the same time afldng her abundance of questions all in a breath; as whether he had Seen my father? if he had informed him who he was? what passed between them? and Several other things I was desirous of knowing : and So great was my impatience toshe informed of these particulars, that I could harldly stay for an answer. I would be informed of everything at once, and was almost angry at her making sine lose the time of asking her. And was not
this
Fflicia to Charlotte.
255
this eagerness very natural. Madam? Indeed I could not help it; I acted meeely from in stin£i:. It was my heart that wanted to be informed, and the strange emotion I felt there caused such a swift fuccestion of ideas, that every moment’s delay Seemed an age. Amelia talks with as much fluency as most people ever conversed with, yet I thought she dream’d out her Syllables to an unnatural length; and though I was never drefs’d So quick in my life, I could not be persuaded that I ever was half So
long about it. But I do not consider, that
I am describing my ov/n impatience, I am still increasing yours. She told me that my father,
not kn®wing who he was, had behaved with the politeness due to a stranger; and upon my aunss saying he was one of her best friends, had even gone sofar as to tell him, that he should be glad of the honour of his acquaintance, and that it would be a particular favour if now he was there, he would give him a few hours of his company.
What a happy omen! cried I — Is it possible?? — you Sure he said Co? — Well, and what elfe Come, quick, my dear — With what an ecstasy were these words uttered | Whatelfe, Madam, returned she, what should he say dfe f — He said nothing more I assure
you
200

you. You will easily imagine that Lucius accepted the proposal. ^ Well, hut my dear Amelia, returned 1, with the Same rapidity, are you Sure you have told me all? — Come, begin a gam, and don’t forget the least particular. Here Amelia, with a Smile, did as I desired; only adding, that my father feem’d agreeably surpriz’d at lucius’s graceful manner of ex pieffing himself. Did he? cried I with a fresh transport?? could you forget Such a charming circumstance? But what then were lucius’s Words?
Thus I employ’d my time ’till I was ready to go downstairs, when reflefhng that what I had considered as a Subject of joy, was but an airy viiion, a deluston of fancy; Since the eale and politeness of my father’s behaviour to Lucius proceeded only from his not knowing him. My fears now returned with double weight, while my heart ach’d and stutter’d with a painful palpitation, which increased at every step I took, as I drew nearer my father and my lover. In what a terrible stifpence thought I, is poor Lucius! how will he be able to make the important discovery???, thought I a again, how is it important? Since it will only
V
raise my father’s resentment. And the next.
moment, 1 imagin’d I law him pale and trem
  261
$«
bling, at hearing my father’s stern command to forbear his addresses— — these torturing re flections were in a great measure put an end to by my entering the room, where Lucins, my father, and my aunt were in full conversation on Some indifferent fubjeils. Lucius, the moment he saw me, arose with a bluff, and bowing low. Seated himself again, and continued the conversation. What a strange concourse of wild and incoherent ideas now distradled my heart I my soul, filled with a confused agony, was Scarcely able to attend to any distinct sensations. I was bewilder’d in a maze of thought. What a strange situation of mind! Is this the last time, Said I to myself, with a Sigh, as Soon as I was capable of giving the least order to my ideas, the last, the very last time of my feeing this dear man? the last time that I ff all hear his voice 1 that voice that has so often awak’d ail the powers of my Tout to harmony and love! that voice which I have so often heard with rapture, while, as if all ear, have hung upon his lips, and listen’d to thetender, melodious accents of Ms tongue! Oh! how shall I Support his absence?? tear rnyfeif from this dear person for ever! never more to converse with my fellow mind’ never more to hear and see his heart Speak to me. To forget
\
262
get him! to forget the dear Sympathies of love!
to be ignorant of what passes in his breast 1 How hard the talk! Oh duty! how rigorous are thy demands! — But ’tis resolved, and I will, I will obey.
Had I not been Seated in the darkest part of the room, and at the farthest distance from my father, it would have been impossible for him not to have taken notice of the disorder these cruel thoughts imprinted on my countenance. But I was Soon diverted from these gloomy images, by Lucius, who trembling, with a Soft and timorous air, chang ’d all at once the fubjevsl that had employ’d the attention of all in the company but me; and fixing his eyes steadily on my father. You have pro fefs’d an esteem for me. Sir, laid he, which neither my merit, nor the small time I have been in your company, can justify, I am quite unknown to you; you are ignorant that I have rais’d my ambitious hopes to the happiness of being allied to you : but however you receive this confession, do me the justice to believe, that I have never prefum’d to harbour a thought of obtaining your daughter without your consent; I love her too tenderly to injure you, or to think of depriving her of your affershon, by persuading her to forget her duty. You alone
have

263
have a right to difpose of her; and. Oh! Sir, it is in your power to render me happy or miserable. With what pain did he utter these words! and with what an earnest beseeching look were they concluded! As for my father, the moment Lucius, softening his voice, began to change the difcouife, he started, and viewing him with an earnestness mixed with surprise. Seemed to hear him with patience, and even let him conclude without once attempting to interrupt him; while I, swallow’d up in attention, felt for Some time a fufpenlion of all thought, of all sensation and idea. My soul seem’d a void, every passion was hush’d, and every power waited the next words to teach them how to ast, and to Set all in motion again. When my father reply’d, I shall neither take upon me to inquire how far you have carried this regard for my authority, nor whether you are worthy of her affcdlion. She is very dear ?o me, and I have chosen a hus band for her every way capable of making her happy. You will oblige me then, if you promise never to see her more. Well, Sir, I cannot complain, returned he, with a trembling
voice
this is no more than I ought to have
expected. — I must lose the lovely Felicia then or ever! — well, you shall be obey’d — whatever
264
ever it cost me you (hall jc — here he paused, as if unable to proceed, and then continued. No, i’ll never be an obstacle to her happiness; (he shall never more be made uneasy by my presence, nor tempted to disobey you, by knowing my despair.
was
port the effeists of Such generous, painful Sentiments; a flood of tender Sorrow pour’d into my heart, my head grew giddy, a thick film in an instant overcast my eyes, and trembling, and sick, while everything ran round, I Seemed finking into death. My aunt perceiv’d me, while my head was yet Supported by the back of my chair, and my looks steadily fix’d on Lucius j w hen observing my paleness, and crying out, Felicia is fainting! she ran to Support me in her arms, just as I was ready to fall upon the floor. It was a considerable time, I believe, before I was brought to myselfj but being still very sick and low Spirited, my aunt advis’d me to be laid upon my bed, when Amelia Supporting me by one arm, and one of the Servants by the other, I was convey’d into my chamber, where I remain’d for Some lime, in a state little better than that of an entire insensibiliiy, during which my aunt was So kind as to keep me company, sitting all the
while
/

2%
while by my bedside with a bottle of Salts III her hand.
As Soon as I had perfectly recovered my fcnses, and began to look about me, the first question I afk’d was, if Lucius was gone? but my aunt could not Satisfy me. I then desir’d her to tell me how he behaved, and what impression my disorder had upon him j but she. avoided answering my question, by saying, Phay, my 'dear, don’t make these ufeless inquiries. — As you must now endeavour to forget him, it would have but an unhappy effect to store your mind with thoughts that would only increase the dishculty of conquering your affection. But she had Scarcely made this prudent reply, when Amelia came running into my room, and embracing me with an extasy of joy, Omy dear, cried she, with tears starting from her eyes, Lucius has conquer’d; my uncle Submits, and gives you up to your lover! — —. It is impostible! cried I, fill’d with an amazement that almost deprived me again of my just recover’d fenses. It is true! — it is true! I as fure you it is true! resum’d she, with the Same transport. Here my aunt check’d her friendly ardour, which she fear’d might overpower my Spirits, and forcing me to take a glafsof wine and drops, to prepare me for what I had to, hear, desired Amelia to relate everything that vol. I. N had
FE L I CL A T O Gh A'RL OT tei
iiad pafs’d; when, s^izin^ her hand, I treated her to make haste, but not to forget the least parfigular, She fpil’d at rnjcea^er; 3iess, and with that fatisfa^ion io her looks,, which always appears when a good ipind hag
it in its power to confer an extraordinary joy,
* * *!
without any further ceremony, began thus.: The moment mj mantma ran tp prevent your falling from your chair, Lucius cast hig eyes upon you too; but he no Sooner beheld you, my dear, in. that frightful Situation, than iic appeared in a difotder very little different from ypurs; but immediately recollected himself, he joined, with my uncle in using all hi endeavours to recover you. He ran himfest to fetch water, and gave it tp your father, who sprinkled your face; he ran for more; he flew into the diningroom fpr my mothers smelling bottle, then fpr Some drops. In short we wad no need of any of the servants, he himself was nipre aclive than they ail put together
could have been; and did a thousand mean
■; ’ » * ^ * ' *
oieces for you, if any thingean be called mean that is done for a person in such a Situation. His life, his happiness, bis all seem’d at stake. And though he could not have the least hopes, pf obtaining you, his looks exprefs’d a tender jiefs and Solicitude thaf I could not help think ing even exceeded your father’s. Though he,
idurst

Fflicia to Charlotte.
S
267
idurft not approach you with the Same freedoms as he did, yet he stood behind him, with his eyes fix’d on your faded cheeks, while the tears ran down his, that with his fright wanted little of being as pale as yours j but the instant your colour began a little to return, his came in proportion j and as his apprehensions vanish’d, hts countenance entirely chang’d. You opened ypur eyes; we Said you would recover; he was in a fresh transport, and seemm at that moment to have forgot that that was to be the last time of his feeing you. Ah! my dear Felicia, continued she smiling, do you think Mellifont, in the same cafe, would have cxprefs’d an equal teiidernefs for me — L ean hardly believe it.
O I MV dear Lucius! cried I (shedding Some
cxtatic tears) hut proceed. Well, resumed
she, as Soon as I came from helping you upstairs,
having ash’d me how you did, he turn’d
to ray unde, and giving him a Supplicating
look, Since I must never more. Said he with a
Sigh, behold your dear Edicia, permit me. Sir,
to stay ’till she is come to herself. I don’t ash
to See her again, but — Enough, Sir, returned
my uncle, you may stay and welcome; and I
take this opportunity of thanking you, for the
Service we have received from you, in giving
us your astistance : it was generous, and what,
after the declaration I had made you, I had
N i, not

ft

not the least reason to expert; but instead of being reproached I was to be obliged. My filler has done you justice in saying you have a mind very different frona your father’s, and therefore I believe you will not vindicate his extravagancies; and it is his character, more than any disparity of circumstances; that makes me averse to your having my daughter; but i you are an honest man you will not justify him.
'The savage brute had -- Who, Sir, what my
father? cried Lucius; while I was surpriz’d to hear the person who had hitherto spoke with Such fubmistive refpe6l, now assume a tone So resolute and lofty. Yes, your father! return’d my uncle, as loud as he. He insulted me— —
insulted me, in the presence of Several gentlemen, who turned him out of the room. They gave me his character, related many of his outrages, and convinced me, that he is a. debauch’d, abandon’d fellow— — villain— — father a debauch’d abandon’d fellow! refum’d Lucius, in the same tone : my father a villain. Nothing but your near relation to Felicia could prevent my resenting the opprobrious epithets. Heavens !my father call’d a villain, and can I hear it with patience? Oh! Sir, continued he. Softening his voice. Spare my father! Why, is it not true? returned my uncle — Is he not
my father? cried Lucius interrupting him : Oh........
........ :
\
 '

Sir! can I have So little delicacy, fb little sense of duty, or honour, as not to resent Such language? Can I be a Son, and yet So void of filial affection, as not to feel my heart rise with indignation, and every passion Twf^il to justify
my father? Then you justify your father, re' plied again ray uncle. I beg, returned Lucius, you would not’ press this subject. You are Miss felicia’s father, and he is mine; I would therefore preserve a respect for you both. Mine has, I confess, his faults, but he has his virtues too. His faults r would d^nceal from all the world; I would bury them in eternal oblivion;
I would blot them' even from' my own remem " brance; I would Wipe them from my thoughts,. to Save myself the preposterous shame of blushing for apparent: But yet, whatever he may deserve, I am Sure I don't deserve to hear him treated for
Mv uncle here, continued Amelia, sat fix’d in admiration, while friendship and surprise were mingled in his looks; he was filent; he seem’d at a loss for an answer, when at lash givinglucius his hand. Your sentiments are admirable. Sir, cried he, and I can’t help thinking him very happy, in having in so generous a fon, fogood an advocate. I beg pat £ don for my want of delicacy in shocking yoursi
N 3 Hero; ■



Here hesitating a moment, with a friendly disorder in his countenance, that fliewm him
stopp’d by an affecting thought, which he waited to indulge, he refum’d. But if a father who has taken So little care of his family, can inspire in a Son Such tender duty, such noble friendship, how great would be that son’s affection, had he one who employ’d the whole bent of his soul in contributing to his felicity? You can’t conceive, my dear Felicia, continu’d
^ i
Ihe, how feelingly these words were exprefs’d, Lucius himself, notwithstanding his disappointed hopes. seem’d extremely moved with them, when with a colour as red as Scarlet, he hastily replied, ’twas in you. Sir, that I hop’d to have found Such a father; but why did I hope it? that is now impossible, I shall See your dear, your charming Felicia no more. ’tis true, my presumption in daring to love her is inexcusable j but I will try whether ab ience and philosophy can teach me to conquer my passion. If they cannot, I must be unhappy. Here he arose with a visible confusion in his looks, and added with a Sigh, Pray Send to know how she does, for I must retire.
Lucius having taking a turn or two about she room, with a disorder that I don’t know
how to express, but which Seemed to arlfe from
his
TO
ft'
Si? thi'hkiiig he had Said too much, by cohfes fuig the pleature he had felt in hoping for a fat

of my uncle’s virtues; (for those words Seemed to break rather from his heart than his
tongue) Lucius, I would Say, turn about the room, and
taken a
■ t > t
ing my


make no reply to His desire of knowing how' you did, opened the door; saying, Your Servant, Sir; I wish Felicia'happy. I will send myself, to know if she is recovered. When feeing hihi going, your father arose, desired him to stay a little lottger, and told him, he could not part with hiin So suddenly.. this your lover returned; arid they both being again Seated, after a short Silence (for your father, thy dear, contiriuedshe, appeared buried in thought) he feremed, I confess. Sir, I admire your virtues, and am persuaded We shall part upon much ' better terms; pray let rne know the eifeutn' stances of your family, arid whether you have ' aiiy estate in your own hands. Here I took Upon me to reply,. and endeavoured to give him the characters of Sophronia and Marilla, tvhich I told my uncle I could do with a much better grace than Lucius, as his modesty might be offended should he do justice to perfeins Wliofe inefit was so nearly allied to his, that he could riot be Supposed to praise them as
NU,

272
feticia TO Charlotte.
they deserv’d, without reflefling great part of the honour upon himself. But, mv dear Fc
^
licia, this was not my real motive; I could not Sit by and See Such a charming reconciliation Carried on, without desiring, at least, to have a Small share in it. 1 had waited a good while to put in a word that might be of Service to you, but could not find a better opportunity than that which now offered.
Well, thank you, my dear, replied I; but pray proceed. You might have told me that tomorrow. Come, make haste. Your father, Mils, continued she, appeared extremely delighted with what he heard; nor was he much less pleas’d to hear Lucius tell him that he had an estate (which though much less than yours, might Serve to vindicate his giving him his daughter;) and indeed he was no Sooner inform’d of these particulars, than taking lucius’s hand, with an affedlionate Smile, he cried. Your virtue, Sir, has conquer’d. I admire your Sentiments, and approve felicia^s choice. I give you my daughter, and wish you both all imaginable happiness, With a rapidity as quick as thought, he now threw himself at my uncle’s feet. He was unable to speak j he grasp’d his hand, wetted it with tears, and I having waited for a minute for
Some


/ S'
fdme ecstatic rapture, and perceiving him still filent, flevi to be the first mestenger of this delightful news,
O! cried I asoud, Sure This is ali a dream am I — am I So‘ happy! So very happy? where is my father? where is'my Lucius? I will run' and indulge‘my fohdnefs for' them>both Then, feeing my aunt laughing at my rapture, I stew into her arms, embraced her, and then Amelia Come; continuedi 1, let us go; I canst stay a moment They 'humoured my

A ^
k ' vi,



Or
\
impatience, and all of us ran together into th parlours My father was standing with his eyes affectionately fix’d on Lucius, who stood by him holdinghis hand; and I suppose giving a loose to all the rapture of a transported heart; • when breaking from himy my 'father flew to receive me with open arms. Come, my child, cried he, share in my'fatisfa<slion.* — r approve your choice. It shallnow be this gentleman’s study to render you*happy. Here having embraced me with a tender affe6tion, he took hold of my handy‘ when alking Lucius for his, ' hd laid mine upon it, and then grasping both: together, God bless you both, my children, ' cried he, lifting'up his eyes while the tears stole down his cheeks; God bless you both
and render your happiness eternal.
N .5 -
Do you,
2 74

my Son, remember added he (still holding ear hands, while he suffer’d Lueius to close his upon mine, with a tender pressure, which my father render’d yet more pleastng, by holding bosh ours between his) remember, that as by your virtues you now arrive at the height of your wishes, fi only virtue will render your happiness complete and durable. Then turning to me, he proceeded, and do you, my dear, remember, that now all your felicity in this life depends on your pleastng Lucius. He is your own choice, and I command you, as you expel to be happy, never to mention, or by the least action let him think, that you believe him obliged to you for the gf t addition that, by your means, is made to his fortune.
bless you both, my children! To this my aunt aird Amelia gave a hearty Amen j when j giving us an affectionate shake, he let go our hands, and Lucius embraced me with transport, while my aunt and coustn drew near to congratulate us on this happy occaston. Their
f
eyes fparfcled wish joy, their faces glow’d with pleasure, and every word and every look spoke she sympathy between their hearts and ours; wherever we turned our eyes, the soul of hap j)inefs fat beaming in every look, they beheld
us
fkcrcra to Charlotte.
27^
'^
us with the transport Mr. thomson describes when he says.
»

9mr
^twai ffttndjhip heighte'ffd by the fniiitial wijjj TP enchanting hope and fynipafheiic glow.,
** Struck from the charmful eye, 'j)evoting fadr T a kite. — — i — • -
While mv father ftdod lopkihg 6n, with a Superior
degree of conscious pleasure in his air Supremely happy iwdp dwakepd power ■'
THE evening wss ■ “
delight. sophroma and Mkrilla were fehtsor and bore a part in oiir comrtion fatisfai^idn And nothing then feemeid wanting to
I
/ '»
com
hot all this' delight cohld prevent fny
you
news, nor crase stoin my
thoughts the remembrance of how hauchdl im,
%
’t
Your ladyshtp s ■
Mss obliged Servant f
■ ’

2y6

LETTER XXII
My DEAR Friend;
HILE I was reading yours, every line of which, exprefs’d the most generous and tender Sympathy in my distress, I could not help being extremely delighted with the thought, that you were perhaps the same
moment engag’^d in perusing my last, where
\
you would learn, that you might freely banish all your fears, since I must now appear greatly
above your pity. It was a pleastng refle<stion,, Madam, and f assure you, I could not enter tain myself with the satisfaction you would receive on this occasion, without feeling a great increase of my own. Sure nothing can be more natural than to share in the joy we ourselves occasson, whea self-love and friendship both conspire to aid. the Sympathetic delight; and to ressedt back the pleasure another feels from our happiness.
But what a strange Scheme I could anything be more extravagant! to f^nd all my letters to my father, to open his eyes to the perfedubns of my lover, and to convince him as you say, from those unguarded overflowings
f my heart, that our passion fias been hitherto
carried
, vc^ it
 '
277

carried on with the striisteft regard to virtue; and all the obligations of duty. Really it was an excellent artifice, to remove his prejudices; and, for what I know, might have been ats* tended with fuccess. I was present when my father received the parcel, and could not help being a witness of the Surprise he discover’d at feeing a large bundle of letters enclosed; when having given me that dire<sled for me, and read yours to himself, he call’d my aunt aside, and Smiling, retired with her to read their contents, while I was under little or no apprehensions of the consequence of having those tender tram fcripts of my heart discover’d; for tho’ I had entirely forgotten the contents of most of my litters, a conscioufnefs of the sincerity of my duty kept my mind at ease, and would not Suffer me to fear that I had wrote anything
that could possibly offend him. But I had no Sooner read yours, and indulg’d for a confidera ble time. Some of those pleasing thoughts due to friendship and youj than a Sudden reffleft impulse of curiosity made me long to know what effe^l of my letters had on those intereffedl persons, my father and my aunt; I therefore arose, in order to attempt a discovery, which I had not patience to wait for, ’till they made ft
sheaiselves, Hound them in my aunt’s closet,
„
ays Felicia to Charlotttb's
fet, and the door not being lock’d, I gently plifli’d it a little o^eh, and Saw them blithe Seated with their backs towards mcj with the eseru tbre, before which they were sitting, cover’d With papers. The good'lady was listening to ’
my father. Who continued reading with a low voice, while she look’d over him; but I had not stood a minute in this situation, whenturn ing their heads So that I discovered half their faces, on which were imprinted Some lively ‘ traces of fatisfa<3: ion, they gave each other a * ■glance, my fasher crying out at the same times in a transport, O the dear girl! Elated with ■' ithi^ tender exclamation, fl took a step farther.,.,
tnat 1 was only a kino dr a ipy, and ought therefore to be conceal’d, 1 push’d^ the door a little too rudely; which grating 3r gainst the stoor; shey both started, and turning : their eyes to the place from whence the noifb"
.proceeded, discovered
I was now quite
disconcerted, and you may be sure had an air not a little ridiculous; for my curiosity now" appeared worthy of shame j and therefore casting down my eyes, was at a loss whether to ‘ go in, or retire;, but before I Could determine, my aunt put an end to my embarraffisient, by calling out, What, Felicia! is it you? I could be
almost angry with you We were
ypup
Felicia” to Charlotte;
your Soul, it was talking to us; and here yol^ like a little impertinent, must come and interrupt the entertainment you yourself was giving us. At this I boldly entered the room, when they both joining in their caresses, and making Some 'apologies, frankly confefs’d the motive of my coming, and the effeist my father’s goodness had in making me unattentive to the essary precautions of being conceal’d. They laugh’d at my ingenuity; and having, at their request, brought sthem your letters, and plac’d them in the order I receiv’d them; I left thenr to their entertainment; and going downstairs, took a walk with ameha In the garden; where we for Some time indulg’d the pleasure of discoursing on each other’s happiness. We then made a comparison betweeii love and friendship, talk’d of you, and in short, were very merry with your expedient for promoting my
O mai>am I when our minds, after a dreadful storm that has threatened the wreck of all that is most dear and valuable, perceive themselves entirely at ease, and wafted by the ehearful gale of every pleassng passion, we find new charms in all around us; a thousand open ing joys, that would otherwise pass unheeded, break in upon our Souls, and contribute to
\
Felicia TO ckarlottev
heighten our’fatisfadllon; we have a quicker taste for every new accession of delight, and' fill’d with that complacency, which makes us look upon everything with a Smile, every ob je61: in return feeras to Smile upon us. And'
while we are in this Situation, not only friendship and love wrap the mind in. the mostpure ethereal delights, but the glittering sunbeams, the balmy breeze, she verdant groves, and alf the lavilst bounty of nature give us a sensual pleasure. O' how sweet are she. delights which heaven has thus prepared for mortal st but how much more exquisite are she charms of innocence and conscious virtue, which give a pleaf irig relish to all these natural beauties I Affliction and distress, in rankling .care, and all the paihful bitter gush of grief, the darkforae shades of providence I like she clouds and storms of nature, roaring round she high rais’d mountain,, and echoing with a horrid yell through' all her distant caverns. Serve to beautify the variegated Scene, and heighten the glow of her returning Smiles : out tears, “that rain of “eyes, ” Swell she humane bloflom; she kindly shower cherishes the hidden seeds of virtue, opens the lovely foliage, and with she next returning fun the fresh budding graces stand
c©nfefs’d. But; to return; from this long di
greffioiv

V ♦ V V


281
greffion, which I hope you will think not altogether impertinent.
At dinner I had the pleasure of lucius’s company, a happiness I now enjoy every day; when I took notice that my father, who could not yet have read half my letters, behav’d with a peculiar complaisance, and treated him with a refpe6t I had never obferv’d before j and indeed if his esteem and affe<stion for Lucius increases, as it has done stnce our grand reconciliation, he m'zy postibly be in greater haste to complete our union than I destre he should be; for between you and I, I begin to grow a coward, and am a little afraid ol entering into the awful awkward state, from whence, you know,
'as from the regions of death, there is no return. However, your example, and that of amelia’s,
4
I don’t doubt will give me the courage necessary to go through the Solemn ceremony with. a pretty good grace. — But I find my happiness makes me grow lazy, and as Thave nothing ‘BOW very material to add, shall conclude.
tbursf c.
Felicia.

LET
LETTER

Dear Madam,
Y father’s affe^ion for L uclus is iibvv^ arisen to Such a height, that I hardly know whether he or I have the greater share in his heartthey are become almost inseparable, and are united in a friendship that appears very extraordinary in persons between whom
there is such a wide diffiirence with respedl to age. He is perpetually at our house, and the company of the lover is pretty equally shared: between the happy father and the still more happy daughter. Methinks this indulgent parent is more lavish of his carestes to me than:
* A •
usual, he is continually approving my choice,.

and giving me instructions to regulate my aeon dud by such rules, as he says will render my felicity complete. He has read to me several Spectators on this subject, to which he has subjoined many observations that have fallen within his own notice. And I assure you, Madam, it shall she my care to put all his wife maxims in practice. To study our own happiness, and that of those we love, is an affair of the utmost consequence, nor can we take too much pains in, the noble employment, whichm

is at ence both our duty, our honour, and the Source of the most Solid diid lasting joys. My soul is too delicate, and my tenderness for the
amiable Lucius too Sublime, to Suffer me to
I
think without, pain, on those little jars, those
petty quarrels, which interrupt the felicity of
* #.
Some of the most happy pairs, and Sometimes make breaches dreadfully fatal to their future repose. They are upon their guard as to things that seem of importance; but while their minds lie open tottrises, those trifles Soon become affairs of the utmost consequence. To these little incidents we are continually exposed, and therefore, as my father says, they are much more to be feared than those, that at first view appear of the greatest moment. However the talk which he hath inculcated cannot be very displeasing. Since all his rules are peffe<stly agreeable to my inclinations, and only consist of Such maxims as must, if observed, perpetuate our mutual felicity. O my
f '
dear friend! tell me (for you know) if there can be greater pleasure than that which re
.4 • •
Suits from the refledlion of pleasing a person
dearer, infinitely dearer to us, than ourselves
•• » /
grateful look, the kindling glance, the cxpreflxve glow of tender fondness. Silently shot
d _ I
from the thankful eye — — O can there be a
greater
«
Sa

\
greater reward, to Soften the charming toil, if that can be rail’d a toil that will gladden the heart we love? For this I will read and study to enrich my mind, for this I will dress, for this I will plot new arts, to please, while virtue, innocence, and truth, shall lead the way, and mark my path to lasting bliss What delight the distant profpe£l beams upon my soul! my Lucius I my husband!! friend! dear
— sounds fwel
O All Gfa
epithets! — enchanting sounds! ■ ling with every thrilling joy i cious Being! may my abilities be equal to the ardour of my soul! may the wife be lost in the friend;
friend!
the Soft, the tender, the generous
These last thoughts arise in my mind whenever I entertain myself wish the grateful fub
jeist of my father’s inft'ru£lions: but the pleasure I may be supposed to receive from these resolutions is extremely damp’d by abundance of intruding fears that dash my joy with a mixture of bitterness; I tremble lest in the un
k I ^,
guarded moments of my life, I should drop she guard I resolve to keep over my temper; lest
‘ t 4 \ 4 ^
I should forget to please, or lose the power of
doing it. Thoughts shat are always attended •with, pain.
Tslicia'to Charlotte;
28^
'You See what a fond unfashionable creature I am grown; but as your ladyship has given me Some reason to believe that you are not less weak than myself, I boldly brave your Satire; So that if you make'^merry v^th me on this occasion, I shall freely join ir the laugh.
My iiappinefs is now so^eat, that there Seems nothing wanting but the consideration of its being per^uals to render it complete: Nor does amelia’s appear less exquisite than mine; we are furroundeci with every laughing delight, every Social endearment. The congratulations 6f our friends, the caresses of our parents, the tenderness of our lovers, and the pleasing Sympathy in each other’s felicity, all contribute to heighten our joy; while rapture itself grows more pleassng, by fettling into a Serene and moss charming tranquillity. Everything is prepared for the ceremony that is to unite us for ever to the dearest persons on earth; and next Thursday Amelia arid I are to be hailed under the title of Brides, and initiated into the dignified state of venerable Matrons. And between you and I, Madam, we ' both heartily wish these Solemn doings over, for really they have Something terrible in them that frights at a distance.
Thus
« (


Tiiys far, mam I had written y^er day» at whlclli tiiq^ I had no other care that? h()w to render Lucitis and myself aa happy aa poihble, except fonie little intruding thoughts of the aulcward appearance I should make at church, and shofe natural inquietudes which are apt to perplex the mind uppn the view of
t
an inaportant change iri our circumstances, all which were counterhalanced by abundance of most charming restedlions : but the Scene Soon chang’d. Alas I what is life, but a perpetual round of vexations and disappointments! a rapid succession of intermingled pleasures and ps^ins I these cares and these delightful thoughts Ibpn vanished, they gave place to other cares of a more bitter kind, unmix’d with the least thought that could alleviate their force, or stili the tumult of my troubled mind.
Yesterday we had mellifont’s company as usual. The tiny pafs’d away very agreeably; and though I had not Seen Lucius all the preceding day, I felt little uneafiness on account of his absence. I knew if he was ill I should have heard from him, and therefore did not question but he was detained by some extraordinary business, which would be no fopner finished than I should see him again, with a fatisfa<stion that would be greatly increased by
our
i eiur being deprived for. a short time of each
Thus, while anticipating the eagerness with which I fancied he would ‘fly to me, the pleasure I should observ e in his countenance, and the tender apologies he
would dpubtlels make on this occasion, I recompensed myfelffor the loss of a present gratification, with the pleaflng thoughts of the future. Though Mellifpnt, Amelia, and even my aunt could not help censuring him a little Severely, while I took his part with a good deal of vivacity, and let them know that I did not think I had she least reason to be offended.
However, in the evening, I had the Satis taflion of feeing him enter the court; my heart bounded with joy, and a Sudden thrill of delight darted through every vein. He entered the room, he Saluted me, but it was with Such a kind of cold restraint, as at pncealarm’d -- and piercm my soul; 1 knew not what to think, nor how to behave. I felt ajti; ernotion which I know not how to describe, a painful flutter of Spirits: when haying made a short apology, by saying be had been detained by Some affairs of the utmost consequence, he took his seat, and join’d in the conversation, with a distraffion that was too visxble for rne
not to take patticular notice of it, while methought

2h
 "
thought he had an air of constraint that seem’d quite unnatural to him. He avoided looking at me, and whenever his eyes chanced to meet mine, he Suddenly cast them down. O what could I think? could I imagine that he was grown perfidious, and that I had lost my empire over his heart? No, I could not believe it; I could not entertain a thought So injurious to the fair idea I had conceived of his truth and goodness. However, all that engaging frankness, which had hitherto appeared on his countenance, was vanished, and I was ignorant of the cause. Some strange event, thought I, must have happened, in which I am greatly interested. 1 was ready to imagine anything rather than that Lucius, my dear dear Lucius, could be false.
At last, Mellifont and Amelia leaving the room, my aunt Soon followed, and we were left together, without the interruption of company; a Situation which I had long’d for ever since I observ’d this restraint in his behaviour,, though his coldness would not Suffer me to take any measures to obtain this fatisfatstion. His eyes now Softened, while drooping with fbme Secret care, every feature had an air of relu(stant languishment. His tenderness had a mixture of fear, and compassion, and methought

1
••

I
Fflicia to Charlotte.
289
thought he even seem’d to dread my reproaches. We both continued Silent, his eyes were steadily fix’d on mine. A sigh, a tear efcap’d him. He held down his head to stifle his sighs, to hide his tears. O how nearly did they touch me! what a violent emotion did .they raise in my breast! my heart throbb’d a pang of grief and lost Surprise struck through my soul. I long’d to know the cause of what I Saw, yet dreaded to alk it. When at last breaking Silence, O my dear Lucius, cried I, unable to restrain my tears, tell me, for heaven’s sake, tell me what is the matter — What is it that disturbs you? I must know it. Have you a care that I have not a right to .share with you? Let me know what dreadful misfortune it is that gives you this pain. Indeed if I can, I will remove it. and wip’d my eyes, while he, with his still fixed on the floor, echoed back my sighs, when, as if struggling to conquer, the glut of Sorrow which choak’d up his voice, O my Felicia! my dear, my lovely Felicia! laid he, let me persuade you to forget me; I will never involve you in the miseries of our unhappy family. — Whatdo you niean, cried I, hastily interrupting him, and scarce able to believe my ears, I don’t understand you, — Alas, my dear,
V ol, LI O rejoin’d
At this I sigh’d
2^0
 '
rejoin’d he, in a Sorrowful tone, you can’t be
I don’t deserve— —! interrupted I
mine
again, stunn’d at his words; but immediately my pride helping me to recolle^l myself, I coldly rejoin’d. Well, Sir, just as you please.
Here I was going to fling out of the room, when a Sudden glance, in a moment difpell’d my indignation, while Love, with all its humbling powers took entire possession of my foiil. I Saw him with his eyes greedily fix’d on me; they overflow’d with a melting foftness, arid at the same time, Sparkling through the crystal Swell, with awful dignity. Seemed to express Some great. Some hidden purpose. Every degree of confuhon was vanished, not the least tindlure of shame remained. His countenance had an air of open frankness, and no other traces were visible there but those of perfect tenderness and soft regret. What could I nov think? or what could I say? 1 perceiv’d that there was Some extraordinary cause that forc’d him to behave in this manner; I perceived (or at least I thought I did) that it was with re lufiance he struggled against his love, and endeavoured to forget me; yet I flatter’d myself, that if I did but know the motive to this jpainful talk, I should be able to give him Some
relief, and perhaps let him see, that there was
no
  291
no occaston for Such a victory over his passion : yet, however glad I should have been to have heard his reasons, I had still too much pride to Suffer me to inquire into them; the shame of meanly stooping to destre to be inform’d of these particulars shock’d me immediately; I Saw plainly, that this would appear too forward, and too evidently express the difficulty I should have to overcome my tenderness.
THESE reflections, which glanced through my mind in moment, kept me filent, and prevented my alking to be inform’d of what I impatiently long’d to hear; when finding me still continue speechless. You wonder, my dear. Said Lucius, and are at a loss to find arguments to excuse my behaviour, but could I prefer my own happiness to yours, I might 'still be as blessed as I could wish; as blessed as the most high wrought imagination can conceive: I might barbarously consult my own felicity to the prejudice of your happiness and future peace of mind. But I love you more dearly than life, and therefore can never eonfent to involve you in my misfortunes. I will never be guilty of such baseness. Oh my dear Felicia! call not this a want of affection;; think it the triumph of the most perfect love, the strongest proof of the most generous, difin
terestednefs, — But what will this cost me
O 2 In
Felicia to Char lottei.!
/
In lostng you, I abandon every earthly joy I bid adieu to the most pleasing prospefe, to the enchanting Sweets of the most pure and
virtuous — — — To see you no more! ■ .....
At this moment my aunt’s return put a stop to this moving discourse; when Lucius and I endeavouring to compose our countenances, he inquired if my father would return that evening (for he had been out all day) and being told he would, he promised to come
the next morning early, to pay him his re istedls, and immediately left us.
In this situation I am in at present. I form a thousand conjedlures, each of which perhaps is groundlefe; and notwithstanding all my endeavours to penetrate the cause of this Sudden
9
change, am as much in the dark as ever. However, I must believe him sincere, and therefore can’t fufpe^i that he wants a pretence to break his engagements: No, I am Sure he tenderly loves me — It would be criminal to doubt it. But a few hours more will now discover the whole affair, till when at least I shall be.
Your ladyship’s
Mojl unhappy friend,
felicra,
» t
P.S..
Felicia to Charlottr.
2^93
P. S. The uneasy torment of suspense, not allowing me to Sleep, I could not think of any expedient to pass away the tedious interval till lucius’s return. So a greeably as in opening my heart to you : 1 therefore arose two hours before the rest of the family, and employ’d my time in writing you the above.
LETTER
My dear Friend,
NOW send you two letters together, the
dates of which will tell vou in what order
• ^
they are to be read. In the first you find me plunged into fresh anxiety, into all the pains of disappointed love. In this you will see the cause of this mighty change, a great mind struggling between love and generosity.
About an hour after I had concluded the, other letter, a Servant came to tell me that breakfast was ready. I went down with a
mind extremely perplexed, when in Spite of all my endeavours to assume an air of ease and gaiety, they perceived my disorder, but instead
I
of inquiring into the teason of it, as I expedl edj only strove to divert my pensive thought
o3
fulness,
294
  ’
fullness, by turning it into ridicule. At last however Lucius appeared, and by his presence put an end to their unseasonable mirth, which began to grow extremely painful. Breakfast was now over, and the dear youth desiring my father and I to favour him with our company,
4
went with us into a room, where we had no reason to fear being distuibed; and having taken our seats, with eyes in which were intermingled an air of dignity, with the soft lan guissiment of love, he cast a glance at rne, and then fixing them on my father, Sir, cried he, I am now come to thank you for your unmerited goodness, and by an ingenuous confelfion of my circumstances to let you see, that I am unworthy of the happiness of pofiesting your daughter. Nay, Sir, continued he, feeing him look astonished, I don’t wonder at your being startled at an address of this nature, but Since I cannot now marry her with honour, I must do you and her the justice to decline it.
Struck dumb with surprise, my father at first seem’d incapable of making a 'reply; he riveted his eyes upon Lucius, who at the same time cast his to the floor; his colour came and went, he knit his brows, while his. countenance exprefs’d a confus’d mixture of vexation, anger and disappointment; when, at last.
Seeming

295
Seeming to collect; his Scattered thoughts. What can this mean? cried he, I desire you would explain yourself. What disadvantage can there be in your circumstances that you ought not to have mentioned before r It w’as a base and ungenerous part to endeavour to engage my daughter’s affe<slions, and thus to carry things to the last extremity, when you knew you could not marry her with honour; and I don’t doubt but she will resent Such treatment as she ought. She will regard your conduff as an insult to humanity, and as an affront that deserves only to be answer’d with contempt.
Tho’ this was express’d with all the bitterness of resentment, in his voice and air, yet it appear’d to make but little impression on Lucius; only a modest, guiltless blush, flash’d in his cheek, which seem’d to arise from the indignant pride of injur’d innocence ^ when finding that my father, by his Silence, waited for his answer, I am Sorry, Sir, said he, in a bold and manly tone, to find you entertain So ill an opinion of me; but were I that ungrateful wretch you think me, T should deserve even, greater reproaches than those you are pleased to load me with; felicia’s merit would then Justify this warmth in an indulgent father j but I beg you would do me the justice to hear
O 4
me
296  '
me, and I don’t doubt but that, notwithstanding I may appear a more unequal match than ever, you will still think I deserve a place in your esteem. My misfortunes call for pity, and not resentment. I have chosen to be unhappy rather than'to See my father exposed to the miseries of a prison. 1 have lost Felicia to Save my father! — Think, Sir, what a Son must feel at the very thought of feeing a person whom nature, whom ten thousand obligations has bound him to love and revere, in a gaol, in a dark unwholesome prison, excluded from the cheerful face of man, lingering out a wretched being in penury, while he enjoyed Oh! it is too much; affluence in Such a circumstance would be a curse, while nature would extinguisti all the delight of love, and embitter its most pleastng Sweets, -^ — ’tis true, I might have conceal’d my giving up my fortune to procure his liberty. — I might have done it — and had I been base enough to injure your goodness, I had done it. I might in this cafe, have confided in the generosity of felicia’s mind, who after our union might have excused my deceiving her, and have kept it a Secret. But I could neither resolve to marry her in Such wretched circumstances, nor to impose upon you. I had yesterday morning
five
/
r
ELICIA TO charlot TE. 297
five thousand pounds, I have novr but two, a
miserable pittance to Support the exigence of a family, born above the inconvenience of low life I Tor to this ule it must be applied : Alas, what inconveniences shall we labour under I but what are these inconveniences to the ten thousand times more painful shock of the rich man’s Scorn, the indignant leer, the contemptuous taunts and shrugs of the wealthy fool, the dread of needy creditors! these, even at a distance, strike terror through the Soul,
and damp the generous pride of upright virtue. But is a wretch like this a proper match for the lovely, the wealthy Felicia? No, you cannot, and I ought not to think it. Instead of n estate, shall I bring her the necessities of an unhappy family? forbid it heaven I forbid it love! Can I in these circumstances ungratefully impose on that generostty that made you overlook the disparity of our fortune which was too great before? No, no, Sir; you must no longer think of me as you fon, nor 1 of of her as the dear companion of my life. The confcioushefs of having' now done my duty, in resigning all my pretensions, will help me to support her loss— — already feel it wilh — Do you then teach her to forget me, Tho’ I shall see her no more, she shall have my prayers,
nd
/
o5
a
• *
298

and all mv fondest wishes
Good God!
whatever I Suffer, may Felicia at least be
happy!
O I Madam, had you but Seen with what a flood of passion this Speech was utter’d, you would — •! am Sure you would have been extremely moved. He wept — and Sure never did tears look So graceful on a manly cheek before I My father wept too, and I faster than them both, while he pursued without interruption the noble didlates of his generous heart, bursting into the incorent language of tender distress. But I must be more particular, with respect to my father, for Lucius had hardly began this apology when the rctentment which reddened in his cheek, began infensibly to vanish; his features, before fwell’d with indignation, now sunk imperceptibly, and left only the soft traces of pity, blended with a wonder that seem’d to arise arnids: those generous Sentiments, V hich elevate the soul above itself. Jie appeared interested in every"word the dear engaging youth uttered; nor did the broken
Sighs, which frequently disjoirteu them, the groan of his throbbing heart, the trenibling accent of his voice, or the east change in his coun tenance, seem to escape his notice. T saw ic did not — with a Secret joy Flaw it; and rejoiced
in

299
in the humanity of his heart, which made him pity the noble distress of my lover— — this moment more dear than ever. Never did the high wrought images of even a fictitious tale
present a Scene so moving as this would have
/
been to an indifferent Spectator; the most in fensible breast must Sure have melted into softness, the dryest eye have gufh’d into tears.
After Lucius had finish’d, there remain’d a Silence which lasted near a minute — — an awful, tender Sstence, which was only interrupted by a few heaving Sighs; when at last my father Smiling, with an exprestive astection in his look. Indeed, Sir, laid he, I have been too hasty; you deserve to be pitied : but what strange magic do you find to Soften me thus? I profess I have not shed so many tears these eighteen years; never Since I lost felicia’s mother, my dear Elmira.. .But I beg you would do me the favour, my friend, added he, to give me the particulars of ihw affccling story.
Oh! Sir, resumed my dear Lucius, you have a right to demand everything from me : and tho’ no mercenary view can tempt me to betiay Felicia into ruin, tho’ 1 have not the least distant hope of ever obtaining her by this
confession, which can have no other effeci:
O 6 than
300
pelicta TO Charlotte.
/
than to convince you that heaven never design’d her for me, the respedl I owe you, and the desire I have to appear still worthy of your friendship, will make me give you all the Satisfaction you can desire, Two days ago, as I was preparing to'pay this lovely maid a visit, a messenger from my father (who went out pretty early that morning) brought me a note, by which I was informed that he was tinder an arrest from one of his principal creditors, What could I do, but instantly fly to l^im! I found him in the house of one of our dependants, with no other company than the ofssccrs who deprived him of his liberty. He received me with an air of dejecied sadness, while his attendants stepping to the door, left me at liberty to indulgi the torturing anguish of my heart, by endeavouring to give him the comfort I wanted my feist Oh Lucius! said he, feeing me enter, you see your father a prisoner 1 This was all he could say, before I Sprung into his arms. I could not Speak to him; we. both Seated ourselves on a bench near the table, when having cast his eyes upon me again, with an air of the deepest melancholy and distress, he gave me a particular account of the Situation of his affairs; an account that fill’d my mind with distrachon,
yet
Felicia Ta Charlotte.
yet in a great masure put a stop to that torturing hurry, that flutter of Spirits with which I had before cast about my thoughts, to give him relief; Since I was now fensible that there was but one'way to Save him, and that at first view gave the most violent shock to my soul.
Oh! Sir, how hard how intolerably hard
it is to root out of the heart a passion like mine 1 You, Madam, continued h
A
looking
at me, appear’d in that moment more charming than ever — ten thousand pleasing, distradl ing ideas crowded upon my mind, and overwhelmed my senses in a mazy whirl of giddi ness. My reason seem’d departing, while my breast was torn between love and nature, between duty and the tender — too tender foft ness that melts, and charms, and Swallows up the soul. Good God! what did 1 feel! the Sigh, the tear, the unkind reproach from my dear Felicia, and all the distradiion of her bosom was felt with a double emphasis in mine; but I Soon came to a resolution; the manner in which my father concluded the painful story of the Situation of his affairs, fix’d my wavering thoughts, call’d in my reason, and pleaded in his look, his air, his words, So strongly for duty, that it was almost impossible to resist its
impulses. Oh Lucius! Said he, in a most distressful
a
cis a
302  '
trefsful tone. You see I can have no prosped: of relief — No; I have not the least hope — the least glimmering hope of ever procuring my liberty. Here pressing my hand, and giving me a look painfully asse6lionate, melancholy thought, contined he, the dreary horrors of a prison are extremely shocking; they disarm my resolutions, and make a coward of me! But I have no body to reproach but myself— — be buried alive, to be forever deprived of that wholesome air, which the meanest staves breathe at liberty — Nay,
don’t look So tenderly upon me! continued he, pressing my hand again, and then looking at me, with the utmost excels of paternal affection, he added. Will you not come to see me?
I could bear no more: these last words
pierced through my soul. don’t, pray don’t. Sir, distract me with these dreadful thoughts,
interrupted I, you shall not go to prifon 1
am refolv’d you slant. What do you mean? return’d he, I must. I have no friend to af sist me. svhat ami then? cried I; you shall not, if my life or fortune can prevent it. I will not — I cannot see you So wretched I Mention it no more, returned he, I won’t hear of Such a proposal. Your whole fortune would Scarcely be sufficient— — no; you slant ruin

30 s
yourself for me. I will not purchase my liberty at so dear a price as your happiness. Think what it is you propose. Think of Felicia. Ah! that name will Surely call you back to reason ■ need but consuit your own heart to find that it is she, not I, that must render you happy. Leave me then to the miseries I have brought upon myself. Death will Soon put an end to them all; but oh! how painful is this Situation, in which death, so terrible to nature, is my only relief 1 — A relief do I call it? — Would it be a relief to me? No, I fear not, there is Something after death, more dreadful than death itself, more terrible than all I Suffer. O how happy is the virtuous man to whom the grim monster appears with an angel’s face — with the Smiles of immortal beauty I To me it is covered with dreary gloom that shoots terror through my soul! But when you are happy, Lucius, think
-- -- my prifoh.
of me; visit me in my grave -- -- -- -
Oh my father, my dear dear father! cried I, interrupting him again. Why will you not hear me? why do you give way to Such cruel thoughts? shall I not have the liberty of dif posmg of my own : I have already thought of what I lose in forsaking the gentle Felicia. I know my felicity is interwoven with her’s. I
know
/
504

know that our marriage, on which the happiness of my life depends, will never be concluded, yet I have made my choice. There is Something So horrible in the apprehensions of feeing you a prisoner, that I cannot bear to think of it. There are no circumstances, in which Such a misfortune to you would not render me wretched.
Of
Are you not my fath and Snail not nature plead for you? Do you think me a Son, and yet believe me capable of struggling against my duty? — my duty to my father? — a father from wtom Shave received numberless obligations, that call for returns of gratitude and love. Think what my mother will feel, when she hears of your distress, and tho’ I have not the power to shake your resolutions, by my entreaties to accept of what I offer you, let her tears, let her despair touch your heart, Marilla too will be distracled with grief, and I know her so well, that were she of age she would gladly make you the same offer that I do now. Indeed, Sir, we can none of us feel more misery than in feeing you miserable— — God! cried my father, with uplifted hands, teach me how to al. Never did my condudf, in my calmest intervals of refle£hon appear so black as it does now. Oh I Lucius! I am asharn’d of
thinking

305
mgs
thinking how I have injur’d you. Your kind ness is more insupportable than all my Suffer-
-- -- Severely does all this goodness
reproach me! -- -- ^this undeserved goodness!
It touches me to the quick — — it makes a monster of me! — — I beg pardon. Sir, replied I, if I have done anything to occaston these cruel reflediions. In Serving you I only

do my duty.
But ah I it is a painful
duty, interrupted he, I know it is your fortune is your Smallest loss., If I accept of it, I
deprive you of felicia’s fortune too -- -- -- -- and what
is infinitely worse to a mind like your’s, I deprive you of Felicia! I might have given you a Splendid estate, but instead of that to — Oh I how unlike a father, who, instead of a curse, ought to be a blessing to his family! My conduct has been an outrage against nature -- -- — — a violation of the dearest privileges
of a parent -- -- -- -1 have forgot the obligations
of the hustand, the father, and the friend.
— — How rhiferable have
Thy mother too I i made her I I have been the ruin of all who have loved me — n
and children - —
The ruin of my wife
the ruin of thee!
effect of vice I how dearly do I pay for my folly and madness!
Here
3o6 Felicia to charlottbv
Here he paused, and I dare say, it is not dlfficulf. Madam, for you to imagine the tender, the generous, the noble Sentiments, the relation of this affeffmg contest produced. Methought there was Something So heroic. So
dutiful, and so distnterested in this part of his
_ /’
behaviour, that I could not help Secretly applauding him. But now my father let me see that he was of the same opinion as myself, by openly discovering his sentiments: for Luciu# no Sooner gave him leave to Speak, by a pause in which he Seemed to recollect himself; than my father, as if eager to put him out of his pain, took hold of his hand, and giving it an affevfiionate shake. Generous youth, cried he, this was nobly done — You are more my Son than ever. 1 shall think myself happy in being allied to a person of Such worth. How
greatly do these tears become you! this Soft adoption of another’s Sorrow, this excess of
humanity, which the Savage mind cannot (or at least will not) feel, is the truest mark to know the brave, the generous heart by. Actions like these give a perfest infight into cha raisteis, and while they add a dignity to the highest stations, they Spread a lustre that can never be equall’d by all the pride of wealth, the pomp of titles, or the false glitter of Successful
 '
307
cessful ambition. Dear Lucius! how happy will my daughter be in So worthy a husband!!
was utter’d in that peculiar tone in which we always express ourselves, when the full heart, burdened under its joy, breaks forth into an unrestrained transport, into elevated Surprise and generous affe6lion. While he Ipoke the tears started afresh into his eyes, and added an endearing tenderness to the Smile of gladness, which enlivened his countenance. His soul beam’d in his looks, and discovered a mind Softened, delighted, and raised above itself; while I dwelled upon each word he uttered, and with a most charming extasy as fented to the justice of his praises. As to Lucius, he seem’d all this while as if awaking from a troublesome dream, while Surprise, gratitude, and a niodest joy, dispersed the clouds of despair which hung on his brow. He look’d at my father, he look’d at me; the Same pastions were visible in both our faces, only I fancy mine had an air of greater soft nefs; he then turn’d his eyes again to my father, and pressing his hand, I am amaz’d. Sir, cried he. What can this goodness mean? can you really propose to marry Felicia to a person without a fortune? to one sunk into indigence? Sure it is impossible! have you forgot
that
3o8
Felicia to charsotte."
\
that our family depends upon my Support, and can you resoive that felicia’s estate, instead of being augmented by Her marriage, should be applied to remove foreign cares, and foreign wants?
Come, come, Lucius, returned my father Smiling, don’t exaggerate the disadvantages of your circumstances. This last instance of filial piety shows a greatness of soul, that not only fills me with surprise, but extremely endears you to me. The better I know you, the more I admire your virtue; and to be as little behind you as possible, in point of gene rosity, I promise not only to confultyour felicity, but the happiness of all that are dear to you. But pray proceed; for I long to know the conclusion of these affcdling incidents.
Dear Sir, cried the engaging youth, (with a Sparkling joy Swelling into rapture) dear Sir, teach me how to acknowledge your goodness; I would be grateful, but yet cannot express my gratitude. My heart feels it all; feels it too Senfibly to be exprefs’d. O my dear, my lovely Felicia, cried he, arising hastily, running to me and giving me an eager affedficnate embrace, while my father could not forbear laughing at this natural transport, this Sudden impulse of affection, nor could I help being
extremely

■'1
/.

3®9
extremely delighted with it j with extasy he preflfed riiy hand to his bosom, his eyes Spoke unutterable things. But having indulg’d for near a minute this Sudden transport of joy, he returned to his chair, and concluded the story of his father’s misfortunes; but he neither Sufficiently enter’d into the subject, nor dwelled as before upon the most melting circumstances. His own past Sorrow and his father’s were Swallowed up by the joy of the present moment. He told us, that after many arguments, his father at last consented to his proposal, but not without the Severest reproaches upon the mad ness of his own cotidudl. His creditors were Sent for, when offering a handsome composition, which was readily accepted, their affairs were concluded the next day; and in short, that his misfortune, with the tender ness of Sophronia and Marilla, had wrought the most happy change in his conduct; a circumstance which, as it gave Lucius the
highest pleasure, he mentioned with peculiar Satisfaction.
As soon as he had done, my father renew’d the friendly proofs he had given him of his affection, and promised to use his endeavours to make us as happy as possible; So that before dinner we were more firmly united than ever.



* S....
310
 ’
What
%
two days more my circumstances and manner
of life will be changed. So that when I write
next, you will find me in a different class of
mortals; but in whatever state I may be, if
you do me justice, you will believe me to be
Unalterably yours.
Felicia.
4
; ie End of the fir«t Volvms.
ju. o f : •

• '.X'
'>. - '; .' n yr
V.. •-



4
■ y V
TV
'■*
\

'- A ■'■ ‘■~'d.a' '
♦ • * < 2 •
'T ^ “•■ V *



\


. \
* ^5 -- ''i



•- r'


^ i •*
•' AR '»
- ■ '4-' VA

_ V,, - .♦.

.'-*
.1
rdm
: m

V
■- l r ^a
- f '<ita>v '
■• <: • V --

. f3
.■CAVII

• r'
''.•
fat
* t A *
h: : •».>
.'. ♦: ’■*'


;
)
.*, -
V If
. i'.
'. • •-
■ j^jkcs.
• :
•3‘r


'■m



■ ■.

4 ^ r
.'* •#
4. '♦ .*•
y
• ^ j
J*’^L

*vt. 9
. vft
'istf
V •>■• /.
>•' ■>■■■. ■'■




r: ^'

/ • 4
V ' s

•
y' ' -
; /. -. ’ -- •.
>’ • '•
'
'•.I
rt' «'
” • •,

*...
y. '

r
.->.
'> '
V •. 7: ^
. fw* • - -
• rr
N
y

V

-- -. .■, •; -, '.• < ZF • ' ■•■ ‘.'i"
. \
• -'. >: •'.
\ /
<•
i.
< .♦#■1






J N

-

A


i

■ NS'
vs 'tv '■■; -/■■■ Nh ■- ■' ■'.
* •■ • - V N ■ : "■:

CA
A - ■ • j w*. .•- •
, X ’ ’
V
■ ''*yfa^
X
'its'




‘ T '^» VS
'
_. »^ ‘
<

•*-

r



._ •. i




■ f.' -
', - 'r.
r.
.
/ .fc
AC; : ..CA



""■ .' ''hrir ■ ■. ■■ V?
N ^.dg ' "v ■
. ■ • ■■ :. ' ■■■
'V •■
-■ ■ .''' r fe’ 4^-0- i ^ ^
''• rat 5*'.' -^'- •
A, .D. A
'■ ■'•. v ■ •: -•••: ■’ ■ -. V ‘v •, ■•-■■.'•
■ h. ■
L r' v^ V ■■■■ " ' ' ■' ^ ' ■
A^A L - i: :
^ • ■ .* • ^ -
— -:., .-
, *-••■"■ ■ V - '■' FZ : ■ ■ - ■
1: ■■-' V
AA.... ■' ■ ■' adjsv I *'vr^7'
’ •‘lfc ss ■' ■. x' C ■. i >3
'' i ■- rv;

1
, V

ri
‘"’ ■var'*'■'
•••..? • >:
L a1

- p
j
“/ '

AC'
\ I
•"■* *•, "*• '. •
'.; A V

, 'i .: ' -
c: :
i.
ijs


. ' A'
'’
• ■
f..
-. ► "A ■
^ _* *. i
■: D ■■■
Vli
>. -■. '1^ ^ —
t
A

v'w',

V '•>£
'
■.
-
A ^

■•■' 'c.
. • '
«..


>>7c7
■•[-
; cr.r j..
'C
V •

ij
V
Si'

'* - •
■.'FA^'
V


y
■; t
CA
'at
04 ( j

■A
f .r^. i '^ A'*'
Ji
CO
•
; *•. T CII


••.'• ’ -» ■^’^'A' • -■ >'-■ ' C -

. r
I ■•
. ■ *
f,,

I' '
( •
IF.
1 •
", •• ^-‘ C I
AC

■< ■»
V •
-• .sv:; fi. A
'/• V ■ - v'. .‘..., • •.
■ ■ •
.' '' 'A'

- ■
* ‘ ir" " _ *• ■



.''V
•\ ■• ■ • • '.. fr- -- ^
■ •=- • ' ■ .'•^. '*'?• ■'■•'ri4''.
■ A ^•^»'< ■ '• ■vr •
^ *
V..
.' '■
• V • .►
.
, C
'AA: ■ • ■•;.. -•
...
- •■''‘^i^ 'a..: ■; '■ ..- - ■ ■■ A- -- '
- ^ ‘. C • ••. -- • - V
'V'f .'', '■
■ *■•■.'
, .'C v4 -- '>

■. ' '
T V
C ‘ :
C ■ A. ■,.


vis; ■; ■■. i
na'
A


ash

. ■=''' 'hr.

-- -- -- • • > -•■

I s



* M 11! DV



■ V - v‘
^ hd c!” ................. .■b 'ttrnn
; ^ ^ „ -- F >. *. '
•. % -.. *
■/ '
••.-.•*. T N »• M I' '• ... -


I -.. ^ • >
il t’’*»mtncc / ‘ *:; ‘
S -. C * ' • ‘ * : i. i .• ‘.^ ^ *, rt T • * • • -
i~ ^^.fs77v.‘. — S. J
i' .......■
'i!! ’ • ’ I .":
. • t.. I ■,
; •.,.. „ —; .'■
I L - < k 1 • \ r C
t * * j, ’V *
J 1 ’ ^ i
i' j r *• ■ i, t i. 1
i 9 »» '■■ rr r > 1 fi'
I.... *
- ■
; V • *,
\ ' - ' • rii*
V • - -
* f T
T' — -.
i' -■ I ■f''.£^~.’
vd ‘' •
"‘■ml, -,. ■-... M' ' : Mi f:. M '; luur * '■ ’ ». - a.‘*...', "" — >-. V •
, ^v'.
Ml ••
-
■
i '
• /
IV >■ .:


■ikzsri^^ * i
ili !Uj. 7 -- -;
'* ’i'.'d.^ltll* MO *
> ■. A '. ■ ^.
^ to
^ >«» r- -- -- -- -- --
'' •• JP’ • ■. I. •.. ... \.
'«srsrr*^a9^..,
____ “i:
: ■
'^■
> '' •
< r. •.
!


■ A * jv' ' ^
! M f. •. •. •..
k. -*. - — t.
>r*’. *■ ^ »
•1
* *%” J' *»
II • o; *
.• vara •
•»■ • ' - I W
• 'M ’ 1 ^ :
a 9 t
■ : J ■ ■•' * t 'K ' -%. i • i
, -.;
If .L ■ T ’» 1 ^ * « ' •, A 't • ' i '••^- -- >. V « 1 «;. / • T, - > ■ ’> f
{' ' W - •

: -. >.

■ t. '-1'
I.
t
1

if
X •
i:
r
4\,
vr
•/-
V.
C.
^. 'te'
fef
V
k
LV
T.
«.



t
rv r •
# i
yilr: -
•7^^'
i’
'AL
\

V’"T ’'"r” '' "-
, '. V
y
\ »
«


VN h ■ ■. V
VC;. \
V - TT
ir 't^r
^ f. tt A '
»* '..
^ "TT.
*.^. ■
: \

c&qqr
V. zi
X
■ V - ' : • - •
e *• Tithe

GODFREY F. SINGER MEMORIAL PRESENTED BY
MR. AND MRS. JACOB SINGER
'^
wvc
/.

IB






\
i
N
% •
FROM
FELICIA
/
T O
CHARLOTTE

coi^taining
A Series of the moll intereftihg Events, interspersed with Moral Reflections; chiefly tending to prove
that the Seeds of Virtue are implanted in the
, \
Mind of EVERY Reasonable Being the
Fourth Edition

Corrected and Improved,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL II
L O N i) O N;
«
Printed for J. Rivington, T. Caslok, JOHNSQN; J. Pain, and W. Goldsmith
i!
m dcclxxni.
♦ rv
I

•# •-
f • *1.
\
/
'V
> »



I ^
-.. r
, : •!
; - f
«
- <
if
»
J

w. -. ■ .- -£ •• ■ -
_ jf — «•.»'■■.'-■ —

U. of pa
U.
cr
iu
iu%
/•
E
I
C
I A
T O
/
CHART O T T E.
\ /\ ^ V V V V V’\‘‘'' V
/‘\/\P\K \/ d. K \/ y' y \

>

ja
fi
3'
r
4
V
Ay
0
ar
LETTER XXV
O U wonder, Tvladani, at my Silence; but the continual persecution of a number of visitors, has, for Some time past, deprived me of every opportunity of retirement: so that, unless I could have found in my heart to have sent you a letter, with only Madarn^ta. the top, I dmmarrlecf^ little lower, and your humble ftrvant.^ at the bottom, I was, f indifpensibly, obliged to defer writino;, till I
could find leisure to be more particular.
vol.. II

My

.2
My story, Madam, is now finish’d; I have been married these three weeks; and, from the Serene tranquil state I am in at present, you hive no reason to expecst any more romantic adventures. I have nothing now to do, with the astecsting Scenes of fond distress, the pangs of jealqufy, or the fearjs of incurring a father’s displeasure. My life begins to move on in an even stream, my pastions are all bush’d into a sweet Serenity : regularity and order, peace and tranquillity, have taken up their residence in our happy dwelling, tpan J give you, my dear friend, a more perfect picture of the highest degree of conjugal felicity, or represent a happiness moreintenfely charming? ’tis true, my husband— — auk ward name! — has no right honourablertitfes t grace my story, and give a dignity to my newly acquired station; but this is an honour, that I can freely resign to you, without the least degree of envy; nor will your ladyship think me stupid, tho’ I tell you, that! never, in my life, had an ambition of this kind. These all potent words, these ravishing sounds of dignity these pompous Syllables, so full of nameless charms, after which so many Sigh and languish in vain, appear of no moment: and I mas content, with the homely title of Mrs.
Manjy,
 ’
5
Manly as any other person can be, with the more dilhnguilhed epithet of my Lady. But whither am I rambling? don’t you think matrimony has turned my brain? I have been preaching So long upon my humility, that I had almost forgot I was to give you an account of my affairs. To return then, at last, to my story.
The day before I was united to my dear Lucius, by those indissoluble bonds, which render our happiness as Secure as our lives, his father came to pay us a visit. We received him with that deference which is due to So near a relation; while his reformation greatly heightened the refpe£l my father thought himself obliged to pay him. And indeed, whatever follies he had formerly been guilty of, he did not, at this time, want any qualification to recommend him to the esteem of a good man; for his Sentiments now showed that he deserved it. He is really a gentleman of fine sense, of an easy agreeable add refs, and one that perfectly knows the world j nor doe': he seem to have wanted any natural advantage, for making a shining figure in it. As all my father’s prejudices were now removed, they Soon grew intimate; and Mr, Manly exprefs’d
B 2 his
♦'4
4

ftligia TO charxotteii
bis acknowledgments, for my father’s generosity
to his fon, with all, the gratitude that could
be inspired by the tender overflowings of paternal
affe<£lion; while my father returned his
compliments, with an air of the utmost complacence
and satisfaction. How much does a
man of fine sense lose by his vices I His abilities,
which raise him above his neighbours.
are either entirely suspended, or render ' him
more ingeniously infamous, more generally
hated and despised; but he is no Sooner reformed,
than, if his reason is not impaired
by brutal indulgence, and a continued debauch,
(which, alas! is too often the cafe) his
new recovered virtues, polished by repentance, blaze out with a double lustre, and receive unutterable
graces, from the Sudden Sublimity of
his conceptions.
Mr. manly’s acknowledgments were
however, too grave for the present Situation of
our affairs, and affected us, as well as himself.
too much, for us to fuffei him to proceed. We,
therefore, as Soon as possible, gave a turn to
this part of the conversation, and Lucius, mel lifont, and Amelia, entering the room immediately
after, prevented its being resumed, and, at the same time, recovered that cheerfulness..
had been interrupted by this too tender
subject.

Felicia to.dharlottei
5
The countenances of all our friends had an air of i; aiety, which broke out into decent
mirth; while Amelia and I were, by far, the dullest part of the company. They at last retired j when my good friend, attending me to my chamber, and feating herfelfby me.
How is it with you, Felicia? Said fly Smiling;
__. '
I must confess myself a fool; for though no conversation could possibly be more engaging, than that in which we have Spent the day, I have willed a thousand times for an opportunity of being alone. Methought I wanted to indulge, at leisure, my own thoughts; though, I can assure you, they were none of the most
My Spirits have been strangely oppressed, and, notwithstanding my endeavouring to join in the discourse, I have been every moment at church repeating after the parson, and thinking what a Silly awkward ssgure 1 shall make there tomorrow. bless me! what a coward am I grown! I shall certainly behave like a natural. O never mind it, replied I, with a malicious pleasure, at finding her as weak as myfdf; depend upon it, I shall keep you in countenance. I am So terrified, at the Solemnity of the ceremony, that I heartily wish it was over. I dread it as Somethinfj
J O
mighty formidable, and can hardly think of it
agreeable.
CD
'\
B 3
without
/
6

without trembling. But fuppose now, added I, we should take the pains to read it over
together.
Agreed, reply’d she, running into my closet and returning immediately with my prayer book; come, let us begin, added she, will be more familiar to us to mofrow.
It
Here we began, making our remarks as vve proceeded. In short, we read over the whole
ceremonial, with the utmost attention; which
as we lengthened it out, with abundance of
comments, and little disputes upon Some particulars,
which we did not understand, took
up a considerable time.
Having now gratified our curiosity, we
wiihed each other a good night, and Amelia
left me 3 but she was hardly out of my room.
when returning with a Smile on her countenance,
I am come. Said she, to ask your consent
to let me lie with you. I am persuaded.
that we are neither of us in a difposition to
give way to sleep. The hours would pafs on, -
very heavily, were we alone; let us then divert ourselves as agreeably as we can. With
all my heart, my dear, Said I, extremely pleas’^d
with her proposal: we will indulge our reflections
wdth the greatest freedom.
Upon this, we undrefs’d, and went to bed '
But I will not trouble your ladyship, with
the
Felicia to Charlott^t
1
ffie various topics of our discourse;; is Sufficient to say, that we talk’d till morning, wh{?n, shaking off the drowsmess, that then began insensibly to steal upon us, we arose; but had
hardly finished the agreeable tafie of dressing each other, when somebody, rapping Softly at the door, Amelia opened it, arid our two lovers appeared. They Saluted us, with an air of transport, telling us, that as they had Seen us at the window, they could not forbear' coming to wish us joy, on the arrival of this happy morning.' This, my dear. Said Lucius, is the day from whence I shall date the com pletion'of my happiness; a day, that, I hope,
we shall neither of us ever think of without
«
my Felicia I how happy are you going to make me! Here he gently prels’d my hand, and gave me a look So extremely tender, that I could not help banishing every impertinent thought, to share in his transport; I even returned the charming pressure, and squeez’d his hand, with a freedom I had never indulg’d before. Sure, said I,, this must be a happy union, where beth so ardently wifii to promote each others felicity! O my dear I cry’d he, in an ecstasy, how shall I merit this Sweet excess of goodness!
delight.
B 4
Mellifont,
/
8 Felicia to Charlotts.
Mellifont, I suppose, was entertaining Amelia in the Same passionate strain; but I was not at leisure to attend, either to their words or behaviour : however, I remember that they both look’d extremely pleased. We went down to breakfast, when Mr. Manly and my father join’d, with my aunt, in the
most affe<stionate wishes for the continuance
• •
of our happiness; at the Same time, letting us know that a coach was ready to carry us, as Soon as we had drank our chocolate, to a small village, at a few miles distance, where a cler .gyman waited to join our hands..
At the mention of the coach and clergyman, my uneasinefs return’d. I trembled, as if afraid of the awful ceremony; while Mellifont, drawing the common prayer out of his pocket, which he had found in my room, and taken up unobserved, increased my disorder, by showing my father in what place he found it open upon the table. This was a. circumstance which created a deal of mirth amongst the old people; who, however, unanimousty agreed that we could, not have Spent our time
better, than in thus studying the nature of
✓
those engagements we were going to enter into; to which my aunt added. Indeed, I' think my niece, and my daughter, ought tp
be

9
be commended instead of being laugh’d at; for, as marriage is one of the most important steps We can take in life. Since our happiness,
both in this, and a future state, in a great measure, depends upon it; ithey could not, at this time, have employed their thoughts on a ■more interesting Subject, than the Solemn promises by which they are going to bind themselves.
I
Several other things were said upon the same fubje6i:, which took up good part of the time v/e were at breakfali; and we were just ready to step into the coach, when ivlellifont, to my no fmail fati^fa£lion, proposed our sending for the clergyman to perfo m the ceremony here. Lucius casting a glance at me, fto see if I approved the motion, immediately Seconded his friend, and, tho’ my aunt disapproved of it, as a thing uncustomary in this (part of the enuntry, we had the happiness to carry it against her, by my father’s joining on our fide. We, therefore, took our Seats again, and one of the coaches was Sent away for the reverend gentleman.
I shall not atremot, my dear friend, to repeat the chat shat filled up this interval. I was in a very odd situation;; in less than two hours lime, we were informed that the
B 5^
coach
10
Felicia to Charlotti.'
coach was returned, and, Soon after, few the divine enter the room, accompanied by Sophronia and Marilla, who had waited for t at church. The glasa [having gone once round, we arose, and went into a back parlour facing the garden; I, trembling with fear, held by my father’s arm, and Amelia by my aunt’s; when cushions being brought in, the
Solemn Service began.
But it would be impertinent

for me, minutely, to deferibe my behaviour on this occaston, which however, was not altogether So ridiculous as I expedted^j only this I must say, that 1 repeated the words, hmmr and as distin«fily as the reft: 'nor did Amelia, any more thant, Scruple to pro nounee those formidable sounds. My heart readily assented to everything : my whole Soul was lost in devotion, and every faculty of k employed in the service ^
find, Madam, I am now entered into
the venerable State of wedlock shut, whatever change 1 have undergone in my manner of life, I do myself the honour to assure you, that I was never more, than I am at present.
Your ladyship’s
fmcereji Friend.
Felicia Manly.
- ^
LET

II
LETTER XXVI
Bear Madam,
Your congratulations on our marriage are So very obliging, that I can't defer my acknowledgments, without deserving the imputation of ingratitude, a crime that my soul most abhors; and, therefore, as I am as sensible, as poliibk, of your goodncss, .1 embrace this first opportunity of telling you so. O friend! what a Sweet addition do your praises give, to the Secret applause, with whicbt re -- guard my happy choice I Lucius is, indeed,; ^ worthy of all you have Said in his favour; his mind is truly noble, and all his Soul as much the object of my admiration, as my love.
In my last,
abruptly, at the remonv, which
r
%
class of mortals
Madam, I broke off a little' conclusion of that Solemn ce initiated me into a different'
: buc, af 1 nave Several things to relate, which, I flatter mvtelf, mav Serve toa mule and emertain you, I will nuw reiume the thread ot my story.
, When all - as over, my heart, which had hitherto b en extremely oppreff d, began to beat more heelv. l.ociuv enr»raced me, and, with eyes tilled with a melting fostnefs, cry’d,
B 6" Now,
12
 '
Now, my dear, I may be So happy as to call you my wife. Dear name I may you never think of it, without pleasure!! rest of the company embraced us in their turn; and paid us the grateful compliments, which burst from hearts, struggling under an excels of affection, and tender joy Nor did lucius’s father, who had given away Amelia, appear less astedied with our common happiness, than mine. In short, every face glow’d with fatkfadlion, while they strove to outdo each other, in their caresses and testimonies of regard.
We now adjourned to another room, where a sideboard was fet with wines and fruit, when my aunt insisted upon my drinking a glass to raise my Spirits, which Amelia, after my example, complied with. The clergyman, who is one of the most facetious gentlemen upon earth, told us abundance of agreeable, stories, with So much humour, that he frequently fet the whole company in a laugh; nor could Amelia and I forbear joining in the
general mirth
O
We
ourselves, and, before dinner, were able to bear a part in the conversation. The reverend divine filled his pipe, had a tankard of old October to himself, and, by his wit and good
temper, let us See, that he did not think an in
cent
Felicia to Gharlotted
23
nocent mirth, at all inconsiltent with the firiflelt piety. And it is worthy of observation, that, notwithstanding the extraordinary gaiety ot the gentlemen, not the least word cscaped them, on this occaston, that could offend the chastest ear. Lucius and Mellifont were in high Spirits; but our fathers appeared transported above themselves;; had a peculiar Satisfaction in their looks, while every gesture and every glance, expressed the glad heart of a fond parent But these are things
too delicate to be described. Sophronik and mv aunt had much the same elevated joy,
which, whenever they endeavoured to express it. Seemed too big for utterance. What a delightful circumstance, to think that our hap piness is diffused in So charming a manner, to those who are most dear to us f
Dinner being over, and the Servants ordered to withdraw, my father presented Lucius with the writings belonging to the greater
\
part of his estate. As I have given you the person of my daughter, and entrusted her future felicity in your hands, faic he, with an air of open confidence, I make no Scruple of giving you the unlimited possession of what is lets dear to me. It would be an injury to you
my Son, ((or now I may have the pleasure of
calling

Felicia t6 Charlotte;
calling you by this affectionate name) and show me too little moved by your noble and generous Sentiments, should I make you depend on my daughter for the enjoyment of any of the elegancies of life. I, therefore, with the greatest fatisfaffion, rely on your virtue and prudence to manage the estate, which,, as the husband of my Felicia, you have a right to partake of, in Such a manner, as to promote your mutual happiness. Dear Sir, said Lucius, interrupting, him, you are pleased to op press me with your goodness j but, while I would'exprefs my grateful acknowledgments, I must beg you not to streighten yourself, to
add -- -- No, no, interrupted my father, in his
turn, you need not give yourself any pain on my accounti I have reserved to myself an easy competence. Sufficient to Support the cha ratsterl Have always born in life, and to Supply all the exigencies, incident to the decline
A parent, in my opinion, added he Smil -- ing, should never be So profuse of h's vi'eakh, as to deprive himself of the rapacity of living : as he pleases without the aliistance of bis children; and; indeed, none, that deserve this in -- diligence, can be pleased with feeing Such a? preposterous, such an unnatural dependence. iconsider you both as my children, your inte --
of it.

%

ts
rests are now become inseparable j and, therefore, I have made no reserve for my daughter: the convincing proofs I have received of the greatness of your mind, make all Such precautions unnecefiary. Nor will Felicia, I am persuaded, be displeased that I have given all to you. Why So, Sir? interposed I: do you really think it no mortification to refuse me the pleasure of doing justice to Mr. manly’s merit, by giving him So considerable a proof of my regard, as k would be, to make him a presentofa fine jointure, as Soon as I had it in my poffestion? How many agreeable things might I have heard him Say to me on this occasion!! feriousty added I, I am altogether as well pleased as it is; and I astlire you, you could not have given me greater pleasure than you have now done.
T HE unexpected vivacity of this reply caused a general smile;; bowed' his head, and seemed particularly pleased with it; indeed he had reason to be solis looks fliewed.that he was charmed with my father’s behaviour; for, tho’ he had been fenfibie that he really gained nothing, by this instance of his confidence, in his integrity and affection to me; yet, as it was an asreeable proof, of the great share he had of his esteem, it could not fail of
giving

16
_
 "
i^giving him the highest satisfaction. We How joined in the warmest expressions of gratitude to this indulgent parent; whilst I, much less embarrassed on this occaston, than this dear man, endeavoured to find terms, capable of expressing, in Some meaiure, the fullness of his heart. '
My father put an end to our acknowledgments, by turning to my father-in-law, and making him a present, answei able to the goodness
of his own dirposition. It was a little estate of about two hundred a year, which is to' return to us after his and sophronia’s decease,
and which they did not receive, V ithout thanking him, with tears of gratitude j but in the moment, when they seemed labouring under a'surpfize, Which struck them durhb, and rerr dered them incapable of expressing themselves, Meilifmt, who had Jest us a few minutes before, return’d, and, desiring to knowif we had' done with bulinefs, introduced a band of music; and, by this means, prevented those affecting acknowledgments, which, however agreeable, are always attended with some pain; The day was spent in innocent gaity andi mirth, and with that peculiar fatisfa£l: ion,.
which the happy occasion was adapted to inspire


r
spire, amongst the most intimate and cordial
friends.
The next morning, while we were at breakfast, my aunt told us, that she expelled a visit from Some of the neighbouring gentlemen and ladies, to congratulate us on this
\ 1
happy union. Some of them added she laughing, as they affect to appear men of wit, will, I don’t doubt, be fond of displaying it, in a manner that will not be very agreeable to the modesty of either my niece or daughter; and, therefore, to Save their blushes for the present, suppose they should take an airing till dinner. I was just going to make the same proposal, said my father, tho’ from a different reason. The day is exceeding fine, and I should be glad of the pleasure of Mr. manly’s company, Without the fear of having our conversation interrupted. Lucius thankt'd him for the honour he did him. and the coach being Soon
o
ready, we stepped in, leaving Mellifont with Amelia, who promised to follow us; we having before let them know the road wo proposed to take, station, by the most tender expression of bis affection. My dear Felicia, said he, how great is my joy to see you so happy! You are married to a. man of Sense and probity; to a
My father began the conver
man
9

. >
Felicia to Charlotts, '
man, whom I shall love as a Son, and esteem as a worthy friend. I wish you could both know, how happy a father you have made me. Dear Sir, Said Lucius, 1 have not words to express the least part of that gratitude I feel for your goodness. Your happiness, as it arises from ours, ought to increase it too. I love you, as the tender father who gave me
You are more than a father, you give me happiness. Here he took hold
being.
of my
hand, and then looking again at my father,
0 Sir, continued he, with a full heart, let me thank you for this, the dearest of all your gifts!
You are very welcome, reply’d my father,, with a smile, I hope my daughter will prove herself worthy of Such a husband. May God bless you both. You are now entered into a new Scene of life, the very different cares, the different duties of which require the exercise of very different abilities. My dear Lucius,
1 approve your humanity, that benevolence which will naturally prompt you to pity and relieve the distrefs’d j but even this affection, amiable as it is, is one of the most dangerous of all that the mind of man is sensible to. There are faults which arise even from goodness of heart, faults attended with worse con
sequences’


Sequences than those of cruelty and brutal ill nature. Pity has ruined thousands, men of the most refined sense, and of the greatest abilities • and, when these are ruined, the ignorant and the ill natured, proud of an opportunity of revenging the Superiority of their acquired endowments, are Sure to treat them with double contempt. And indeed, men of
great humanity, though of the best fcnfe, frequently err in the plainest cafes; even where one, but a degree above a natural, would not be deceiv’d. This appears strange, yet it is an observation confirmed by daily experience. These are, frequently, not only the worst oeco nomists, but they are drawn into the weakest and most childish engagements, where inevitable ruin is almost the natural consequence. Yet the reafonof this is, perhaps, not hard to discover. Those persons, whose thoughts are taken up with refined Speculations, commonly know but little of the world; they may be versed, indeed, in prudential maxims, but there will always be a vast difference between these, and truths founded on experience. A man, of an open benevolent disposition, while conscious of the integrity of his own heart, is less inclined to suspicion, tnan others of more
contracted views: he loves to think well of
mankind.
29
Felicia to gharlotter
mankind, and frequently' thinks better of ifi^ dividuals than they deserve. But, when pity has taken possession of the heart; pity, a pafliorr So nearly allied to love, that, like it, it banishes from the mind every injurious idea; it is almost incapable of suspicion;; reflects not on pof sible consequences;; if these do arise in the mind, they pafs away unregarded, and make too slight an impression to prove effectual. The man of humanity finds it much easier to at st' m passion, than from reafnn; he is prefs’d forwards by the impulse of a lively imagination, filled with the advantages that will attend? the distressed person on his compliance with his desstes; and, therefore, when he is solicited from without, and, at the same time, prompted from within, by the impulses of a generous and and affected heart, there is no wonder if he finds a diffictilty in saying no. I'hete are circumstances, in which a young man will find it extremely hard to pronounce this little mcmofyl lable; and, in order to do it, when necessary, he will be obliged to practice a great deal of felf denial; but it is a mortification Sometimes absolutely necessary. We have a kind of proverb which advises us, “to think all men rogues, till we find them honest.”
Lucius
 '
21
Lucius fate, all this while, with his eyes fixed on my father, in the utmost attention; but, being now unabje to contain himself any longer, he cried out, I dare say. Sir, the first pet Son, who made use of this proverb, was a distionest man himself. What a life of suspicion,, distrust! Can he be a friend to mankind? Can he have any C mplacency in his.fellowr creatures, who looks upon them as. a nest of .vipers, as villains, who only wait for an opportunity to rob, or imposc upon him? — —
No, cry’d my father, interrupting him in his turn; I did not mention this proverb, by way of approbation, as you would Soon have found, had you fuffer’d me to proceed. For, though it is a Sure way to prevent being imposed upon, yet it is unjust, and consequently, criminal,. It is a much more Christian disposition, at least,. to believe every man honest, till we have reason to think him a villain : but, nevertheless, if we know the world, we shall see the northeast cestity of using every proper precaution to Secure ourselves.
Your, benevolence, I allow, ought to fiiew itself in real als of kindness, but it should be
t •
in Such a6ts, as reason and prudence will warrant; a beneficence, generous and diffusive,
1
and, at the same time, consistent with prudence
and
\
\
22

and the rules of just economy. Let me persuade you to be cautious of Signing your name : learn, boldly to refuse, what would be improper for you to grant; and having once refus’d, let no importunity prevail upon you to contrary to your judgement. Never let your steward’s accounts pafs unexamined, nor ever Suffer him to distress a tenant, without feeing the poor man yourself.
Here my father paused;; Lucius, thanking him for his advice, and the other coach, with Mellifont and Amelia, driving up to the fide of ours, the conversation turned on indifferent subjects. It is now time to conclude this long letter, but I must first do myself the honour to affure your ladyship, that nothing but the pleasure of your company, can add to the felicity of
Tour moji affestlonate frtendy
Felicia Manly.
I
LET

f^s£.icia TO Charlotte.
2j
LETTER XXVII
Dear Madam,
N my last, if I am not mistaken, I told you, that my aunt proposed our taking an airing before dinner, to avoid the impertinence of Some country gentlemen, whom, it Seems, she had reason to expert j as they had, early in the morning. Sent her word, that they would do themselves the honour of paying her a vistt, to congratulate Amelia and me on our happiness. Their persons, tho’ not their characters, were unknown to me; and tho’ Amelia and her mother had Seen them before, yet, as they had no acquaintance in the family, we all look’d upon this as an unwelcome intru lion; which, on account of their birth and fortune, we were oblig’d to overlook: and they, doubtless, imagin’d us very much honour’d by a visit, which we would very gladly have difpens’d with. For my part, the very idea of being obliged to bear with their impertinence, gave a damp to my Satisfaction; and, upon my return, I could not help wishing, very heartily, that my aunt might be mistaken; a wish that I the more readily indulged, as 1 did not then know her reason for
expecting
2d.

expelling them. But this was both vain and fruitless: for, at Some distance, we could observe a number of spruce Servants, in very rich liveries; and, upon our entering the court, our ears were Saluted, or rather stunn’d, with a confused noise, which issued from the window of a room adjoining to the hall. One was Singing with a loud, harih, and disagreeable voice, while two or three others, all talking at the same time, were engag’d in a warm dispute, each seeming desirous to gain a victory, rather by the strength of his lungs than of his arguments, and to struggle to out vie the rest, in noise What a jargon was here! Had our cars been entertain’d with the dismal thrum of the bladder and string, or, had we been welcom’d home by a concert of catcalls, I could not have form’d an idea of a more difgusting entertainment, than I new expected to receive from the company of those country ’squires.
My father frown’d, and Lucius seem’d heartily vex’d, but neither of them Spoke a word; however, the coach ho Sooner drove up to the door, than the revel rout ceas’d; and the coach door being open’d, Lucius leap’d out, and, presenting his hand, help’d me to alight, in Spite of half a dozen young rakes, who rudely endeavoured to push before him; and
all
fflicia to CHAR4.0TTE.’
^5
all of whom seem’d dellrous of doing me this honour. I was next obliged to Suffer a disagreeable Salute from each, which the last, being already half drunk, render’d, if possible, more distasteful, by belching in my face: but it was a ceremony I was forced to Submit to, and good manners made me disguise my reluctance j while my father, being entirely unknown, stood by, with i>ucius and my aunt, with the appearance of unconcern’d spedla tors.
This being perform’d, with as ill a grace a
possible, and a wretched compliment bestow’d
upon me from each, they all ran, with, the
same familiar air, to the other coach; and Mellifont, having Set his foot on the ground,
to my no Small Surprise, was Surrounded by
two or three of the most forward, one of
which, shaking him by the hand, cried. Damn
ye, ye strong back’d dog, I wish you joy. Nor
were the compliments of thd others much
more polite j they wonder’d where the devil
he had been, but could never dream that he
had been poaching. Amelia having, after my
example, gone through the nauseous ceremonial, we all went in together; but as we were passing through the hall, I observed one of th.
most disagreeable wretches I ever beheld, a tall
, vol lit leaa
/

FE LICIA TO cha RLOTTS, .’
lean, raw, lank, ugly fellow, with a long face and hollow eyes, drefs’d in a green frock and lac’d waistcoat, who, swinging his arms, ran to Mellifont, and, giving him a lusty blow on the shoulder, and at the same time Seizing fast hold of a button, cry’d, ‘‘ Is that grave fon of “a bitch he .f” nodding at Lucius; and then added he, Zoons! I have a good mind to make him a cuckold. — — Damn me if I have not. 'Though he Spoke pretty low, Lucius overheard him; and, letting go my hand, stepped up
♦
to him, and immediately Seizing hold of his iiofe, which was none of the shortest, led hirn to me, and insisted upon his ashing my pardon, which he did without nesitation; whilst .1, trembling with fear, readily gave him abfo. iution; when, bestowing a hearty curse upon Lucius, and writhing his face into Several ugly contortions, 1 suppose to bring his nose into due form, he turn’d, with a Silly grin, to his companions, and, with a sheepish air of affected pleasantry, endeavoured to laugh it off as a joke; tho’ he Said it was a .cursed queer joke, and he hardly knew whether it was sh
■jest or earnest.
You Ciin hardly conceive. Madam, the tetr ror 1 was in; for 1 immediately dieaded, that
she refenimem of ail his companions would
. ■''fall



27
fall upon Lucius, whom I, therefore, apprehended to be in danger : but I was in a moment relieved from my fears j for, to my no Small Surprise and satisfaction, they all Set up a loud laugh, and, clapping their hands, caper’d about the hall with an air of triumphant satisfaction; and my father, who had, at first, put his hand to his Sword, drew it back with a Smile.
Nothing now was heard but applauses on Lucius, who was regarded as a hero, and the repetition of I — I — I —, from two or three running about, and mimicking the look, ges ture, and Snuffle of their companion, while Lucius led him by the nose j a kind of wit, which, as it was perfe<stly agreeable to their talents, seem’d to give them the highest delight.
As Soon as they were conducsted to another room, we stepped into the parlour, which they had left upon our return home, th' floor of which was pretty well strew’d with broken glasses; when my father obferv’d to Lucius, that, if these were his friend’ companions, he could not help forming a very bad opinion, both of his taste and morals Whether Lucius would have vindicated Mellifjn or not, I can’t tell; lor iiiy lather had no Sooner made
C 2
this

_

this remark, than he himself enter’d the room,, ind, advancing to Amelia, who had flay’d with us,, I have left. Said he,, this stupid rabble of baronets and ’squires to themselves;; parcel cs familiar puppies! who, because I had. Some time ago, the misfortune to blunder into their company, must pretend to rank me in the number of their acquaintance, and, as Such, to pay me this visit. Pray, who are they? what are they? cry’d my father, with a peevish liafliness, that strongly exprefs’d his dislike. They are, Sir, Said he, gentlemen of different difpofltions, united together, only, by a com inon taste for a favourite diverston. Some of them are fond of the cockpit, others are fox hunters, but all of them keep running horfesj and, positively, by the rusticity of their behaviour, one would imagine that they had their jpducationdn the stable; and, indeed, for aught 1 know, the groom may be the better gentlc) jnan. But, as they have most of them very considerable estates, they imagine that they have a licence to trouble whom they please with their impertinence. The ladies, I ex
f ■ * * ‘
, have a terrible entertainment at dinner. lam afraid so, said Amelia, and I heartily wish them gone. If we could but (hut our ears as easily as our eyes, cry’d I, J

2
1
isiould esteem it now an happiness. Gentlemen, ’squires, baronets! Said my father, with a Sneer; fools, blockheads, ignorant stupid rascals; they kn6w no higher Satiffadion than a horselaugh. Well, well, return’d mellisont, very gravely, But you must not form bn idea of our country gentlemen from these; many of whom would bd"atstaiited of being Seen iri their company, as I assure you I am. There are amongst us men of sense, agreeable companions, and here and there is Scattered a man'of humanity.
Th is conversation Was interrupted, by ouf Being informed that dinner was ready; on which we went to the diningroom, and, after our making an apology for our absence, took our seats at the table:
horses were the Subje^i v/e found them Upon, when we enter’d the room; and this tbpic lasted all the time we were at dinner.
Nay, so stridily did they adhere to it, that their very jests had a smack of the groom, mingled with an indecency the most shocking and dis tasteful, and too eoarfe and indelicate, even to deserve the name of a double entendre. a melia and I were toasted under the name of pretty fillies, which no sooner went round, shan one drank health to the riders, and this
C 3
produced
3®

#
{
produced a loud laugh of applause;; in the
course of going round, pick’^d up an additional
piece. of obscenity from every one of these
gentlemen, who, emulous of exceeding in this
way, constantly produced a fresh laugh, and a
stare in our faces. Amelia and I were in a
sttuation worthy of pity; we blush’d, hung
down our heads, and, I Speak for myself, I
was ready to Sink with shame. At last Some
%
asic’d Lucius if I vasa good pacer Ay, damm’e, and needs neither whip nor Spur, cry’d another. All eyes were again fix’d ort ime; and thus the suppos’d wit vvas bandied a bout, collediing fresh mire from every kick. But whenever the man who had given us the affront in the hall began to speak, for he seem’d very desirous of adding his quota, mel lifont stopp’d him short, by Snuffling out, I — I — Ij and giving him a hint, that if he had not vet enough, he would lead him ano
j O'
there turn. This kept him Silent, and afforded us Some Small relief.
At last Something was Said, which I had the happiness not to understand; it was ad dress’d to Mellifont, and was Something about jumping — no, leaping, was the word -; but, it Seems, it was very gross; for Lucius, who had Several iin.ts before began to Speak, but was
interrupted
 '

below the dignity
interrupted and born down by Tome'stupid
S
ribaldiy. seem’d now refolv’d'to break through all opposition; and, therefore, raising his voice
louder than common. Pray, gentlemen, Said
/
he, what have these ladies done, that they should be shocked vvith Such poor, wretched obscenity?? there any merit in putting a lady to the blush? — It is cowardly, mean, and Scandalous; below the dignity of a gentleman.
A gentleman! did I say? of a man — Cowardly! cry’d one of the most forward, interrupting him with a haughty air, and frowning steady look? pray who do you call coward I Faith, I won’t be led by the nose - cowardly, cry’d Lucius, raising his voice still higher, and speaking with equal sternnefs, — ay, cowardly. — ‘cov/ardly, echo’d my father and Mellifont, at the same time. I repeat it again, continued Lucius, with a firmness and resolution that charm’d me, it is cowardly, an insult on decency; it is affronting the ladies in the tenderest part; and, however. authorised by brutal custom, on these occasions, it is an insult on nature — the most barbarous ins.ilt, thus to discolour the cheek of eonfcious innocence. ^ Pox! crv’d a youth of
t ^ J
about eighteen, who seem’d, by his ignorance and his dialedl, never to have been twenty
C 4 miles

^2
N
Felicia to cstartottb^.
miles from home; he weant let us be witty : i’ll be cursed if ever I was So witty in aw my life. The women stiould no’ be shoamfac’st, it is time that was o’^er, or the devil’s in’t. I ha’ said more behauf before my own mother at worn, and' shu lolfd as those shu would habe -- -- Witty f cry’d my father, interrupting
him with a sneer; let us see that you have common sense, young man, before you asset to be witty. Common sense!! Mellifont, with a fatyrical laugh : Common sense is a lai d)' that very few here are acquainted with, I can tell' you that: why, common sense is no common woman; and, therefore, (he is as much stiunn’d, by these, as a common woman by a man, who has any sense at all — And, as to my lady Decency, they don't even knovsr her when they See her; if they did', it might be possible to make them blusti. Mellifont had laid down his knife and fork at the beginning of this Speech, and now, leaning back in his chair, and holding up his hands in a Supplicating posture, he immediately added", with an arch look, that had a mixture of the Serious and comical :
Half Deancy! celejiial maid!
« D efcendfrom heafn to beauty's aide
And hlaji the wretch that’s not afraid
Lo affront thee.
The
VJ


33
/
The humorous manner of his introducing the two first lines from Swift, and his adding the last, without the least hesitation, gave us an agreeable surprise, had made my father and Lucius Smile, for the first time Since they had been at table, And, indeed, their obstinately refusing to drink all the toasts proposed by these rakes, and their vindicating our refusal, had kept them ima constant Squabble, whilst Mellifont was Sure to regulate himself according to their motions. I hefe gentlemen, intimidated, affronted, or struck with Some fense of shame, continued pretty Silent for Some time; and then, resuming their favourite sub je<3: of race horfes, toour no small satisfaction drank to each other, and let us alone;,
At last this hateful meal was over; and, I protest, I would not go through the same mortifications,, for any considerations. My mind was then in a very tender situation, easdy shock’d, and extremely susceptible of paim How barbarous, how cruel, how inhuman, then was it, thus to blast the joy of innocence! rudely to tear the veil that hides those rites that modest decency would conceal, but which neither God, nor reason, condemn! with brutal insolence to trample on the Snowy robes of bashful chastity 1 How imoudent to stare us


Cs

54
 '
into confullon, and to add a triumph to the affront, by a ridiculous laugh! I am shock’d at ^ the recollection of this Scene, and therefore inuft conclude, with alturing you, that I an
Your ladyship’s
\
moj} Jincerey and affeslionate Friend
Felicia Manly,

LETTER XXVIII
I •
\
F T E R So long a Silence, Madahi, you may justly wonder, that I have the alturance to confess that, I am still alive : but however ashamed I am of my negligence, I
have neither the complaisance, nor the resolu
\
tlon to leave the world out of a punctilio of ood breeding, especially as I am in perfect health, and So happy in my present Situation, that I can, without the least pain, think of deferring, for many years, a visit to the heavenly regions. You tell me I have lost, in the wife, the affe£hon I owe to the friend, and I will not deny your having, in appearance. Some jreafon lor this heavy charge; but as I hat
apologies.

Si
apologies, I will not take the trouble to justify Hiyfelf, tho’ I would have you think my negligence owing to the different turn of my affairs, to my indolence, stupidity, or whatever
tlfe you please, rather than to a want of that affcistion, which I shall ever feel for you.
. Three months ago, I gave you an account of our marriage j and I have now to add, that, in order to put an end to those ceremonious visits, which at last began to grow extremely fatiguing, we found ourselves under a necessity of leaving my aunt’s sooner than we had intended j Mr. Manly, therefore, bought an estate at Some miles distance, with a manston house, which, by his direction, was repaired and furnished with all possible diligence. We removed hither, about two months after I sent you my last,, and, at the same time, mellitont carried his bride to his own estate. We frequently
see each other, and enjoy all that sa tisfadiion from these visits, which the most intimate friendshio can afford us. Not the least reserve fubsists between us; a perfect Sympathy, in each others happiness, makes us Such stran * gets to ceremony, that we have nothing to do but to consult our own inclinations, to render us agreeable to each other. Our house is a very neat building, yet so plain a one, that it
C 6 would'
I 4

 ’
would be trifling too much with your patience to give a description of it. The Situation is indeed charming, being Surrounded with woods and groves, which on the one Side must, in! the Summer season, appear extremely delightful, as the other does So now, though in the midst of frost and Snow. There will be the triumph of natureis the boast of aitj there thzt uncultivated wildness, which pleases without method, and without design, charming most where the easy confusion, and agreeable
disorder, render art Superfluous, and labour, vain j here all the ornaments that art, in de
Ipight of nature, can bestow.
In the front is a tall and stately wood,.
composed of oaks, venerable with age, with no
other opening but a large area, and. a visto,.
which carries the eye from the centre of the
building to a considerable distance. Here the
intermingled branches must, I fancy, in the
Summer Season, cast a shade, varied wish all
she degrees of light, from the bright sunbeam,
glittering through the boughs, to the dusky
gloom of Sober twilight.
Behind the main building is a garden, of a considerable extent; which, even in this Season of she year, has its beautifes. To take
m notice, of she paterre, which lies next the house


fioufe, the hedges, which are on each Side the
principal walks
formed of evergreens
/
walls, adurnest, at proper distances; with pilasters, which, with eternal Verdure,, branch into all the decorations of architedlure.. In the midst of each walk, along an opening,, on either hand, the eye is carried*through z number of triumphal arches, composed of the lame leafy maierial’s, and’ which, leading to the extremity of the garden, are bounded by Several fine altoves, the paintings of whicl^, tho’ injured by time, have a very agreeable: effect. In Some of the Squares, composed by these walks, are fish pond, in others, groves of fruit trees, and in others, knots of flowers of various forms, which, in the season for these flagrant ornaments, must, I fancy, be; vastly delightful. LII the middle of the garden, where all the prihcipal avenues meet, upon, a pretty, high ascent, is a fiimmer houle,
the windows of which, as well as the walls,.
%
are So covered with ever greens, that tfie saint
obstruisted light, Spreads a. gloom perfectly
Soothing; while the clusters of shining berries
half covered with Snow, hanging against the
glass, with frosted leaves of intermingled fist ver and green, seem to give the lye to the sea
fbn, and to join in one view Christmas and;
Autumn

\
to Charlotte.
Autumn. At the entrance is a guard of giants, with their mash clubs resting on the ground; harmless monsters! that I can view without the least trembling. His true, they themselves appear in Some disorder, for want of pruning, : their heads and bodies are covered with a number of luxuriant branches, and even their fingers are grown near half a yard beyond the just proportion that ought to be allowed them,
*
Autumn was far Spent, before Lucius and I, attended by my father, went to take a view of our new habitation. I fancied myself in fairyland, and cruld not help expressing my surprise, that while the winds, on one fide the house, Scattered in wavy curls the russet leaves, which, with every blast, fell from the half naked groves; on the other, they were cloth ed with lively verdure, and still appeared fmiu ing in their gayest liveries.
His true, there is Something disagreeably formaun the studied regularity that reigns here: statues, obelisks, and triumphal arches, are but awkwardly mimicked i) box and yeugh: but still they find work for Ibme labouring hands, who might otherwise want the means of sub fistance; and, for this reafcui, i ucius may pos
stbly continue them in their present Situation,
with
/

with only a few alterations, in order to render the whole more easy, free, and natural. be fides, as the house and gardens are in the midst of a wood, this Spot, even in the Summer sea fon, will agreeably Set off the wildness of the prospect, and, by a pleasing contrast, heighten the variegated Scene.
In this peaceful retirement. Madam, we enjoy a tranquillity unknown to courts. Our passions, which, before this union, were high raifed, and too tenderly ardent to be unmixest with pain, now gently Soothed, fink into a delightful repose. The diffidence, the flutter of heart is gone, and exchanged for the calmer ■ sweets of an endearing friendihip. We have
i
BOW the satisfa6tion of passing our time in the proper employment of reasonable and immortal beings. No wayward humours interrupt our peace; no little jars fret the tender cord of Sweet content and mutual complacency
which, when once broken, is So difficult to join again.
Religion, which, to others, is a Source of the most gloomy reflections, is to us an inexhaustible Spring of rational and Su Ime delight. We daily address the iuprerne and so ve cign good, as our father, our friend, and benefactor; we admire the wifdpm, the wondrous

/
40

j
derous skill that shines in all his works : ws adore his goodness, and pour forth our gratitude in humble praise; what transport can equal that of gratitude! what delight be comparable to that of a thankful heart!' If you call this enthusiafm, it is, at least, an enthu siafm, the most noble and refined, justified by the coolest dictates of reason, and necessary to render human happiness complete.
Our minds have hitherto been calm and unruffled. My filler Marilla is my constant companion : 1 have prevailed with her to stay with us a fortnight, and we Spend a part of the day together, either in reading in the Summer house, which Lucius has furnished with the most valuable ornament, a fine colledlion of books; or in paying or receiving visits, among a few Seletst friends. Hither we Sometimes all three repair; and with intermingled chat and reading, find fubje6ls ever new and entertaining. Great part of my time is taken up with the management of my family, or in working at my needle. Your ladyship sees what a do" mestic animal I am grown; but while these amusements give an alacrity to my Spirits, by diversifying my fatisfacslions, I shall have the greatest reason to be pleased with them; for
though you. Smile at the raeanness of my taste,
ifindj

41
I find a real happiness arising, even from these low employments. Since they not only prefervfe peace and order in the family, but give a greater relish to the Superior pleasures of which I am sensible, when, unbending my mind, I enjoy the conversation of my friends. As to the vapours. Madam, it is so long Since I have felt those modish disorders, that I Scarcely know what they mean •, so that not the rosy milkmaid, happy in her humble obfeurity, that lings or laughs from morn till evening, can be less troubled with the Spleen than I.
I HAVE nothing more to add, but that
I am.
toursf c.
9^
Felicia Manly,

T
LETTER
Dear Madam,
HOUGH it is impossible I should receive an answer to my last, you having yet Scarcely read it, I write now to let you see that I can commit, upon occasion, an al of Supererogation. Add this to my former neg
leist, and try if it won’t, in fpme measure, make the balance even.
Two
42
Felicia to chartotter

Two or three days after our arrival herc'
u
jny father returned to London. We were now pretty well fettled j for those workmen who had been employed in making the necessary repairs, being discharged, everything' was soon reduced into proper order. Melli' * font, Amelia, and ray Sister Manila, were present, when my father, in the most tender manner, took his leave. We had all resolved to accompany him Some miles on the road,, but' he positively refused to Suffer ity alleging that
this would only prolong the uneassnefs of parting : we were, therefore, obliged to Submit,, and being mounted on horseback, (for he had’ before made us a present of his coach) attended by a Servant, was soon out of Sight. We returned into the hall, and stood for Some time, in a thoughtful posture, without Speaking a word; when at last Mellifont, assuming an air of cheerfulness, cry’d out, Come, come, what do we stand here for? We must divert this pensive humour j suppose we take a turn in the garden. This motion was immediately comply’d with, and the uneasy gloom insen ssbly dispersed; but the weather being pretty sharp, 1 ordered a fire to be made in the Summer house, to which we retired. Having taken our places, Marilla Said with a Smile, 1 was
one

43
northeast day last week to visit Miss Powers, an elderly maiden lady of great prudence, and the daughter of a deceased clergyman j.who, though she has but a Small fortune, finds the means, by the help of the greatest economy, to make a pretty genteel appearance. When I knocked at the door, I was told she was not at home; but, as she was expe<sted every moment, I was desired to walk in, and, indeed, I had hardly sat down when she entered the room, with her hands covered with dirt, and one of them stained with blood, i arose, and, with a good deal of concern, inquired what was the matter. C nothing cry’d she : I have fallen down, but I have only hurt my hand; it was
a mercy I did not daub my new gown. ije
was impossible for me to forbear Smiling at
this answer; I desired she would explain herself,
and asked her, if she thought the Almighty could be supposed to concern himself
in an affair of such trifling moment as a few
yards of Silk, which, tho’ it had been foiled,
»
would still answer all the ends of dress, though
not of vanity. She was very much displeased
at this answer, and, therefore, all the while
she was cleaning herself, and preparing a plaster
for her hand, warmly^ustified the propriety
jostle expression; alleging, that nothing was
too

44
Felicia to charlottie.’
too mean to fall under the inspection of the supreme governor of the world.
This short story gave rise to a very long" conversation. Lueius began With observing, that particular circumstances will make Some persons look upon an inconfiiderable pain as a trifle, when compared t the lost of what carr only Serve to flatter the imagination, and the more Soi in proportion to the dithcuky of procuring these gratifications. This, said he, is a common cafe; but if it be proper to call the preserving a gown unsullied a mercy, or a favour from heaven, it must be equally So to make this a petition in prayer.: yet, if a lady was to be overheard at her devotions, crying, Lord preserve my best gown and petticoat from stains and dirt, the absurdity would be So glaring, that nobody could' avoid taking notice of it. One who has a competency, prays for wealth, another, that he may obtain the
honour for which he is Soliciting: but what is this, abstradied from the moral use of wealth and honour, which few Seem to regard, more than praying for a new headdress or a new gown? Or what are the petitions for the continuance of these, when none but them Selves receive the least benefit from them, but praying that the gown, or petticoat, may remain
, unsullied

'elicia to Charlotte.'
45
✓
junfullied? A gentleman who has a coach and pair, is ambitious of being drawn by Six horses, and, only with this view. Soliicits for a place,
to enable him to accomplish it.; now, where
1
is the difference between praying that he may obtain this place, and praying, that, instead of a coach and two, he may ride in a coach and Six? If a pretty milkmaid should pray for money to buy a new top knot, would her petition be more ridiculous?
*4. » • *
Men are carried away by false appearances, .and enamoured with the dazzling show of Some glittering trifle. Providence, they.flatter them selves, is employed on their behalf, and the .Dod of nature engaged in procuring the empty, the pernicious bauble. The miser unjustly Seizes the last remains of an unfortunate help jefs family, exposes them to want and beggary, .and adds the fruits of extortion to his ufeless store, and cries, with his hollow eyes lifted up to heaven, It is a mercy that he was not too late to Save his money! Might not the Ids, guilty debauchee go to the stews, and, with with equal propriety, say. It is a mercy that ste found his favourite girl at home! Yet what horrid profanation 1 Can anything be more Superstitious, more shocking and absurd? Un
.^onfcious of the final result of things, while
heaven
4^

heaven is affronted, they are delighted with the gratification of their favourite vices: but how vain, how delusive the joy! They mistook for happiness, what was really the cause of the sharpest anguiffi. The miser, as he carries honie his gold, is robbed of all his dear recovered treasure;; the debauchee is expiring with a loath some disease.
But do you infer from this, brother. Said Marilla, that the Deity is entirely unconcerned about the temporal happiness or misery of individuals? For my part, I think this would be going a little too far.
Lucius paused a moment, and then Said, he had hitherto only endeavoured to expose a false notion of providence, and that kind of Superstition, which makes some men, who deem themselves the peculiar favourites of heaven, resolve events the most trivial, in comparison with the important concerns of human life, into Signal blessings and deliverances, A man of this turn, knows that gratitude is a duty, and ^ffe£fs to diicharge it very minutely; but never reflcciing, that the Superintending care of providence is exercised over a whole universe, and, with regard to him, only as a part
of shat whole; his pratiuide, which should be
* <.
always warm and lively, lies dormant, till
Sohie

47
Some circumstance of his own life, no matter how trifling in itself, provided it powerfully strikes his passions, calls it forth to exercise: he can then prove to you, how much above his neighbours he is the object of the divine favour, and how justly his pious ackliowledg .ments render him So.
They then entered more largely into the consideration of a particular providence; and, as I have recited their observations hitherto, I think I may as well endeavour to give you the Substance of the rest; but, dear Madam, you must excuse me if! fail in the performance. It is a talk Somewhat above my abilities, and, as I shall be forced to abridge a very long dispute, which mer with various interruptions, I am sensible it will want all those natural graces in the repetition which gave life and Spirit to; the conversation.
mellifont observed; as the world is a
great machine, governed by fixed mechanical laws, it is most reasonable to suppose, that man, as .a free agent, is entirely left to the free .exerci e of his natural abilities, and to all the coni'eqlienees resulting from it; for it is absurd to imagine, that a being of infinite Sagacity, should form a wt>ild in so bunaling a
.manner as to make any interposition at all
jiecestary
/'
'4§


necessary afterwards, much more to Suppose it so imperfedi, as to stand in need of continual botching and mending. A man makes a watch, by which I would illustrate my idea of this grand piece of mechanism; but this watch, tho’ it may be perfect in its kind, yet, as it wants frequent winding up, and especially as it calls for repeated repairs, is a piece of workmanship unworthy the Skill of an almighty artificer.
Excuse me, Mellifont, reply’d Lucius, you are going on with a Supposition that will never be granted: I readily allow, that the stupendous fabric of this earth, and all the unnumbered worlds that fill the vast immensity o€
Space,
in their fcyeral orbits, by the
most perfe<st laws; but, does it follow froiii hence, that the whole is only a grand piece of clockwork, which, being Set a going, will move Several thousand years before it be run down? Gravitation, by which all bodies have a tendency to each other, according to the firicstest inquiry, is one of those qualities which do not essentially ressdein matter, confequent jy, it can be no part of the machine : Your watch then, has not only lost its Spring, but the pivots are dropp’d from every wheel, and
the whole become a heap of confusion 5 nay,
/, the

49
/
the very wheels themselves have lost their form, and the metal of which they are composed, is crumbled into infinite minute particles.
This gravitation, which evades the Search of the most curious inquiries, can be resolved into nothing but the immediate hand of omnipotence, which locks together the infinitely small particles of Solids, impels and gives motion to the heavenly bodies, adds fresh fuel to the fun, and whirls round it this ponderous mass of earth and sea, in a confiant rotation of days and seasons. Hence arises a general providence, which, presiding over all nature, gives fertility to the soil, raises the Sap in vegetable, blollbms in the trees, and glows in every flower.
It is very apparent, that thunder and lightning, Sunshine and rain, and, in Some measure, the various degrees of heat and cold, are not under the same regulations, as the diurnal and annual changes; Since Some of them are So far from being periodical, that they have no relation to time and place, but are, with respect to us, absolutely uncertain and precarious; yet, on Some of these, depend the Subiiftence, the Support, and very being, of the whole animal and vegetable world,
vol. II D Mere
X
60


Here Is another instance, and in this there is room for the exertion, both of a general and particular providence; an instance, which you. Sir, would have found Some difficulty in reducing to a Scheme wholly mechanical. The earth is parched up with drought, the air is more and more ratified, and, consequently, by its tenuity, more unfit to raise to. a due height, and Support those mists from the Sea and rivers, which are necessary to form the refreshing rain. Who is it that directs the clouds to thicken in the heavens, to fall in cool refreshing showers, and, before it be too late, at once to rejoice the earth, and bless mankind? If this dry season lasted one month, why might it not have lassed two, Six, or twelve, till man and beast had been quite destroyed, and whole regions laid in ruins? a .gain, the rain falls, the moist and Spongy air still collets, and still pours in a fettled stream,, and there is greater reason to believe that it will rain tomorrow, than there was yesterday that it will rain today; and while it continues, the probability is still on the fide of its longer continuance. Did not the parent of mankind interpose, the all enlivening fun might for ever hide his cheering beams, and we might be cursed with a cloudy sky, while joy would
be

51
\
be for ever banished, and seedtime and harvest be no more.
In these instances, we daily see the most convincing proofs of the friendly care of the universal parent. Hence, he blestes one nation, and depresses another; and, even in the same country, humbles and exalts whomsoever he pleases.
But to be more particular, is there the least shadow of a probability, if we may judge from analogy, that is the stupendous being, who with Such infinite care and (kill, preserves the material, the vegetable, the animal world, should be entirely regardless of the intelledlual and moral? That the being, 'who knows the most Secret Springs that move the human heart, should not, upon occasion, influence these, and, by affecting an individual, give happiness to millions? That he should inspire with wisdom, or perplex and confound. So as best to answer the wise designs of his government? That the God of truth should, by diffusing a little light over a dark benighted mind, promote the cause of truth, and Spread the influence of pure religion, a free inquiry, and
liberty of conscience, through a whole nation? That the most benevolent being in the uni veise should grant the petitions of the man,
D 2 whosc
52
Felicia to charlo^te.
whose heart is prepared by humble prayer, receive the blessings he asks?? friend of mankind, the most virtuous, th C most a miablc being, should look with complacency, on virtue in distress, and relieve the pious Supplicant who confides in his goodness?? he should curb the pride of the fuccessfui villain, and shield the honest heart from the sty attacks of the fraudulent knave? Is there anything irrational in this? anything beneath a God? If it be more noble to change the Swelling anguish of distress, into the gladsome raptures of gratitude and joy, than to form the most curious machine, this must be an employment more worthy of a God, than to create a world of lifeless matter, or all the glories of what Milton calls the “golden pave“ “of heaven, or the bright Sea of jasper, “or of liquid pearl.”
Mellifont looked very grave, and, for Some time continued filent, as iflost in thought,
when Seeming to recoiled! himself. Well, well,
%
reply’d he, you may, for ought I know, be in the right. We giddy headed fellows don’t think So deeply. But, after all, yours is an opinion that, now I think of it, we rnay re^
wish the true. However, let us
fonabiy
change the subject

Thus, Madam, with
indefadigable

53
Siidefatigable labour, have I blundered th ough this long converfati in, and am no a'' so heartily tired, that I am aofolutely unable to add anything more, than that J am,
Mofl affesiionaiay^ yours
Felicia Manly.
P. S. When I had finished the above letter, instead of Sending it away immediately, as I at first intended, I resolved to show it Lucius, and this delay retarded my Sending it till the end of the week. I have just now received an answer to my last; but with what surprise do I find rnyfelf So unmercifully treated about one poor paragraph which,, though you had
disliked, your good nature might have made you overlook! I am really half angry; but you throw away So much wit, and humour on 'iny pious fhlnt, as you are pleased to call it, that I aril almost afraid and ashamed to con fesii it: however’, I canst help being persuaded, that all this mirth is sht the expense of your shore Sober judgfnent. But the bottom of my taper puts me in mind that it is time to cii -
* Tetter XXVHI. page 39. We daily address the Supreme, c. from which passage Charlotte takels occaiioa to ridicule prayer.
D 3 duje
54

elude this long postscript, I, therefore, refer you to my next for an answer, and, for the present, throw down my pen.
Page 43, the last last line but five, after would, the reader is desired to iidd, — I thought this argument So conclusive, that I was quite at a loss for a reply, and, therefore, introduced a diiferent Subject. But I have Since recollected an observation f yours, brother, that among superficial thinkers, it is no uncommon thing to find an injudicious application of the most important truths, when it is mads to Support their on weak prejudices, to cafes “in themselves of no importance.

LETTER
Dear Madam,
SHALL take no notice of the ridiculous light in which you place my manner of life. You representing me as a recluse, and the companion of the young druid Lucius, and your invocation to the rural gods and goddesses, on their receiving me to these fe quester’d ever verdant ssiades, have such a mixture of pleafanlry and humour, that with all that solemn sanctity which you lay to my
, I could not help laughing very hear
xharg'
tuj

55
tily : but the cafe is a little different with regard to what you call the puritanical Scheme, and the pious whim; for your ridicule her has a levity, in my opinion, bordering a little upon the profane. Yet, for all this, it Seems you muss know what method Lucius took to make me comply with pt, and insift upon my sending you the particulars. Can anything be more extraordinary? However, to let yoii see how much I am yours, I obey and proceed.
A FEW days after our marriaare, Lucius desired me to take a turn with him in the garden. I readily complied, and as I perceived an unusual thoughtfulness in his look, I endeavoured to divert him; when, taking hold of my hand. My dear Felicia, Said he, I am going to make myself appear to you in a very ridiculous light, and to make a proposal that I fear will expose me to be lauglied at; but, perhaps, I injure you — am persuaded I do Custom makes us ashamed of our duty; we are ashamed of uttering Solemn important truths, tho’ of the greatest moment: for how' ever freely we talk of the Social duties, it is with reluffance we mention those to our maker.
d4
How

5^
Felicia t6 Charlotte.
How you raise my curiosity! cry’d I; out
with it, dear Sir, I beseech you, and don’t
keep me any longer in fuljpence.
You know, my dear, continued he, with
a tender warmth, the blessings I am loaded with, I imagine myself railed from almost
nothing; 1 see my father relieved from those
dissrefies which weighed me down; and, while
Surrounded with plenty, I enjoy one blessing
more, dearer than all the affluence of life
Ah! what is life compared to this! Can I,
O can I, Smother the gratitude of my heart?
Can I confine it within the narrow limits of
my own breast? Will not you join with me,
in adoring the kind Sovereign of the world?
Shall wc trot, with united hearts, 'at once express
the full Sentiments of our souls, and keep
alive the pious ardour that longs for utterance?
Shall we not, by petitioning the continuance
of his mercy, implant and cherish those dispositions
that will make us more worthy of that
merev?
As I am equally interested in the blefflngs you mention, said I, I ought, perhaps, to reproach myself with a want of that fdofibility, Which you express with a warmth that, T must own, is very affecting. I have hearb prayer
ridiculed, and you must excuse me if I say, I
am


51

am afraid I should look upon it, as a few minutes pasted in a very irksome manner. There is Something So Solemn and gloomy, in the very idea of these Set devotions, that they almost fright me.
Let us banish. Said he, with a Smile, th gloom of Superstition, and religion will sheii appear all over amiable; her beauties will brish ten upon the review, and the more we aie acquainted with her, the more we stiall be charmed wish her graces. Prayer is one of the first duties, diqated by natura’ religion, the elder lister of Christianity j a duty natuv rally arising from our obligations to, and de pendance on, the universal parent, the friend of mankind, the patron of virtue, the most a miable, the most kind, and benevolent being in the universe: a duty enjoined by Christianity, and enforced by the example of our great lawgiver hiinfelf. Did we, my dear, address a stern and rigorous tyrant, a gloomy terror and awful dread might justly hang upon our Spirits; but how great is the difference.
when inspired by gratitude, and prompted by the glow of filial love, we address a being, whose all commanding goodness demands our utmost esteem, our highest complacency! Surely, it must then be accompanied with a most Sublime and rational delight!
D 5 I KNOW
5«

I KNOW it is objedled, that, as we can inform the deity of nothing but what he knew before, and can'alk him for nothing but what his original goodness will prompt him to grant without our petitioning for it, prayer must be, in its own nature, absurd and impertinent.
It is true, that this duty makes no change in God; k is true, he will grant, without our petitions, what it is fit for infinite benificence
to give, and us to receive: but, it is as true, that the exercise of this duty, by changing the dispositions of the mind, changes that fitness;; the humble Supplicant is an object, more worthy of the divine blessing and prote6lion, than the man, whom no sense of duty can fix, and no obligations bind. Does it not exalt, refine, and elevate the mind, by leading it to the contemplation of the most sublime and important truths? Does it not call away the heart Irom the pursuit of folly and madness?? it not raise the foultothe God of virtue, and, oonfequently, to virtue itfelff. Does it not check the growth of pride, self fussiciency, and malice? Does it not keep awake the tender Sentiments of humanity, our gratitude tour maker, our asteclion to our friends?
Enough, my dear Lucius, here I cry’d, enough. I own myself conquered; my re iudance.is vanished,
'You

59
You must know. Madam, it vas at the close of the day when Lucius desised meuo walk out, and, as the fun was then Setting, it began to grow dark; we, therefore, went into the thickest part of a tuft of trees, where we might Safely remain unobserved, when, like the first happy pair, we presented our evening oiifons, which, for the future, were Commonly performed in my chamber. When we came to remove, it was resolved, that this duty should be performed twice a day in th family, and, on this account, we chose the most Sober young people we could find for our Servants. I dare Say, we have more order and decency observed in our family, than in any other within ten miles round us. We Seldom omit going to church twice every Sunday; not So much to gain any new acquisition of know
/

; e, as to keep alive a fense of our duty. and, at the Same time, to Set an example to the rest of the parish j the lower sort of which are greatly influenced by what they See us great folks, as they call us, do : for here, with rcfpest to example, one or two thousand pounds a year, has a thousand times more efficacy, than all the advantages of superior Sense and reason.
0 6

6o

L
You have now two letters, Since I received your last, and if they don’t give your ladyship the vapours, I may be in hopes, that you will, in time, be good for Something elfe, besides giving felicity to one man, pleasure to a few friends, and happiness to a number of dependants : you may in that cafe, I say, become ridiculous enough to exercise the wit, and exhaust: the. Spirits of your gay companions; but you will never have the honour, like me, to find a friend, who will, with Such Sparkling wit, and fine address, endeavour to laugh you out of your religion.
I HAVE the honour to be
Y OUR ladyship’s
Dry humble servant
A •
Felicia Manlt.
LETTER XXXI
i
N order to introduce this letter, Madam, it is necessary for me to inform you, that my father, before he took his leave of us, had Several times hinted to Lucius, that it would be j19 disadvantageous employment for him,
to
■ vc
ff
Fflicia to Charlotte.
6t
to learn the characters and manners of his Itenants, and even of the poor residing on his estate; that he ought, particularly, to inquire into their circumstances, and that, as his interest was closely connected with theirs, to endeavour to Serve them to the utmost of his power. As Soon as my father was gone, Lucius resolved to pay them a vistt, and yesterday begun to put his design in execution, imagining that, as he was yet quite unknown, he might be the better able to inform himself to his fatisstistion. Last night, after his return, I learned his success; and as he happened upon Some adventures, in this expedition, worth relating, I shall give them to you, while they are yet fresh in my memory.
He fet out Soon after it was light, dreflh but meanly, and with only one Servant out of livery, and rode to a farm house, at about two miles distance j where, entering the yard, he dismounted, knocked at the door, and asked for the master, who came running from the stable, and, in a Surly manner, demanded what he wanted. Lucius destred to be informed, if he knew anybody that could Supply him with a load of bay. This question at once civilised the farmer, who before seemed resolved
to behave in a very brutal manner;
but


but the bai gain being Soon made, Lucius went in to pay, and the farmer to receive his money, when a mug of ale being brought, the latter, after a good hearty draught, became, in an instant, one of the most Sociable fellows in the universe: he shook Lucius twenty times 'by the band, with a freedom, as great as if it had been authorised by a long acquaintance. Having entertained him, for half an hour together, with the price of corn and cattle at the'market, Lucius, with the air of a stranger, inquired about his farm, and afk’d him, who was his landlord j when he shegan in the following manner:
Yo mun know, mester, shat I ha’ got a new lonlotd; I doant know who he is, but they say he has married one of your Lonon ladies, who, they say, has a mort o’money; besides, they Say, he is one o’thofe good-natured foo’s lot»k’e, that will do any mon a Service that axes him, those he never fead him aw his born days; and besides. I believe the grey mare is she better horse, for he is meety fond of his lady, never stirs from whom, and never gets drunk. Now my dame says, that such a lon jord as thlshi is fit to be imposed upon; but I doant mind what sha says, for I am mester ixi my own houle, and weant be contradided by
the
J
fslicia to chartotte.
%
the best woman that wears a heead. No, no, let Tummus Clod aloan for that, before i’d' be like my lonlord. i’d horrg myself.
You are in the right, my friend, replied' Lucius laughing, always take care to be master in your own house. Ey, ey, rejoined the coit raseous farmer, I am a wise mon, I can tell
O * ^
ye that, and a fcollard too, fori can reead and write, and I was one whoale month in my ac cidancy, and lam’d Something about parts of Speeach, and neauns and prunams, and I hardly know what myself. I believe it, cry’d Lucius, you are a great man, andt may be as great a man as your landlord yet, for ought I know.
Odzookers, gi’me your bond again, cried the farmer, delighted with the compliment j yo’r an honest felley. i’ll be Sworn; but here’s to ye heartily : but as 1 was Saying, my lon^* lord is a Sifti Sort of a mon, and So, as I owe haus a year’s rent to my old lonlord, I have a mind my new lonlord should pey it, but yo' munno Say one thing of it. O no, replied Lucius, I won’t say anything of it, without you tell your new landlord of it yourself. No, no who would be foo’ then? rejoin’d the farmer; I only fell a few trees that were stonding ora the lond, time out o’mind, and which 1 should no’ do by reet, a cause they were mentioned
m
^4

in my lease. Well, but as to the honesty of the thing, friend Thomas, cried Lucius, how
do you reconcile that? Honesty! replied Clod,
%
why as to that, mester, you know we mun live. It is true I am pretty well to pafs j but a mon should take care o’ his family, and ye know what the eye does no’ See, the heart does no’ rue, as the proverb goes; and a little out of a mickle is no’ miss’d. But pray, said Lucius, how much may the trees you have cut down be worth? Why look’e, my lad, reply’d the farmer, a hundred pound; and foi shall ha’ ten paund in my pocket, for my trouble; trhat yo know is but fair. For your trouble! cry’d Lucius, that is very extraordinary. Why yo know, rejoined the booby, a mon should be paid for his labour, and besides Such a hen peck’d -- -- -- -
Here his wife entered, who it Seems had overheard feme part of this fine difeourfe; and giving him a look of contempt. You are a wife felley, cried she, to tell aw ye’r affairs to a streanger! Ah I ye aud foo’, if I had no more wst than yo, ye might have been bang’d before now. Nay daam, cried he, doent scold, ye know that ye advis’d me to it. I had no’ fel’d the trees, if yc had no’ made me, I made ye, cried she, colouring, and coming
a step
N.

65
An ho
a step or two nearer; I made ye! 1 made ye tell of it too, did I? Answer me that, do, dunce do; this mon, for ouwt yo know, may tell ’fqulre Monly. No, no, cried he trembling, he looks like an honest felley. nest felley! ye rascal; an honest felley is a very proper person to tell that yo are a rogue, O that ever I should be yoaked to a foo’ I I am no more a foo’ than other folks, cried he, just lou enough to be heard. Than other folks, ye blockhead! she rejoined, as loud as, she could haul, I suppose yo mean me. — I a fool, ye dog! There, take that; and here she seiz’d the mug, and throwing it at her husband, it flew over his head, whilst the liquor was pretty equally divided between all the thrde. She now burst into tears, sobbing out. Caw me a foo’ ye barbers mon yo; I doant deserve to he treated a thisti, 1 doan, t, ye wicked murlster yo.
Lucius here flipp’d out, and calling his Servant, hhe‘; (i farmer followed him
to the dobr, ifcratdhing his head 5 but looking behind himy and feeing his wife seated in a
chair, at the other end of the room, he whispered, It is well yoqwere here, meafter, or I
believe I shbuld ha’ murdered her Lucius
made no answer;; mounting and liding off,
told
66

told him he would Send a wagon for his hay; and immediately went to take awiew of the devastation made amongst his trees, when he found eighteen or twenty of the largest oaks lying ready to be carried away.
Agreeable as this discovery might appear, Lucius was under Some perplexity, on thinking how he ought to proceed with the farmer. He now vistted Several of his other tenants, from whom he learned nothing worth mentioning. They were in general honest plain men, blunt, and extremely ignorant: and afterwards paid a visit to the minister of the parilb, with whom he dined. On his return home, he observed, at a Small distance from the road, a farmhouse belonging to the same manor; hither he went, and entering without ceremony, thought he observed a wildness in the looks of the people, that feerh’d to express a good deal of fear and apprehension. At first, he fancied he might be known; but he was Soon of a different opinion, for the woman arising from her seat, with a trembling voice, asked what he wanted; and, in the same instant, the husband flipp’d out at the back door. Lucius reply’d, that he was very sorry, if his being there gave them any unea smefs; and sofar from doing them any hurt,
be

67
he would Serve them to the utmost of his power. The woman eyed him very attentively, and stood, for Some time. Silent, which only Served to inereafe his curiostty; at last she thanked him, and alked again what he wanted. Want! Said he, why you behave So oddly, that I want to know what is the matter. You look like a good sort of a woman, added he, and I should be glad to drink a dish of tea with you; which I had rather have here than at a public house. lackaday, said she, we never drink ta; but yo shall be welcome, if yo’ll send for it, and cook it yo’r self; for I doant well know how to go about it. On th is Lucius gave her a guinea; the tea and Sugar were bought, and a teapot, and two earthen cups and Saucers borrow’d; but when
the change was brought to Lucius, he gave it amongst the children. This entirely won the
good woman’s heart; she now lost all her fears, and, at his request, readily ran to call her husband;; was no Sooner Seated, than Lucius informed him, that he was a gentleman. who had a pretty estate in that part of the country; but, as he was upon a frolic, he did not choose to tell his name. He then urg’d the farmer, to let him know the cause of that
disorder.
69
Felicia TO Char lotte.
disorder, which, on his entering the house, was visible in all their countenances.
You cat folks, cried the honest man, have no notion of the misfortunes and cares, that Sometimes fall upon us, who are forced to struggle hard to get an honest living. One bad feifon puts us back sofar, that Several ^ood ones can hardly repair our Ioffes. This, mester, is my cafe. About four years ago I. had a rot among my Sheep, which killed above haus, and those the best o’ my flock; and as my corn proved bad, I could no’ pay my rent; this put me behind bond; vi'^hich my lonlord ciccused, and promised not' to distress me: but as he is dead, and the lond sold to one Squire Monley, his executors, as they conno’ Seize my stock, threaten to throw me into gaol, for the haus year that is still due. This makes hie' o’'hibst' distra£l: 'ed. ’ There is near a quar cer due to my new lonlord, and if they should let me alone, I know no’ when I shml be able
, But, wbrriday, I ha’ no hopes
I
that they will forbear any longer. Tho’ my fears keep"*me awake, I every morning dread i^he leet; and when I rise, tremble to think
that.

, 6 ', I
I '
'.4 /
^ A word of

the_rame meaning as welt;
a day.


that, perhaps,, the next neet I may lig in a prison; and. when it grows dark, I am glad, that, once more, I shall sleep in mine own bed, and be Secure till morning. Supday is, indeed, a happy dey j I then enjoy my Security, but as the neet comes on, my fears return. — O meller, it breaks my heart to think what will become of my poor family, which you see is none of the smallest!! am a feard to go about my work. I tremble at the feet of a ftroanger. I hardly know what to do. In short, I am o’ most mad.
Lucius was So extremely affe<sled at the moving expressive tone, and the artless Simplicity with which the poor man told his distress, that he could Scarcely refrain frcm tears } and it was with much difficulty that he concealed his concern.
'Well, but Suppose you should tell your cafe to your new landlord, said Lucius; if you An give him proof that you are an honest man, he may, perhaps, take the debt u^on himself, and, rather than lose a good tenant, give you time for payment. I know him, he is a good-natured man,, and 1 dare say he will not be hard upon you.
No, no, replied the unhappy man; icou’d Sooner dee than do it, 1 cou’d never fpeeak
freely
yo
r^ucia TO Charlotte,
freely to Such a rich mon. I am not yfed to Such company. besides, it would Signify no
miserable life to be all’as in
thing.
It is
a
fear.
Now I have Lucius, with a
/
thought of Something, cried forced smile, that I am Sure will do. Have you not Some timber growing on your land? Yes, returned the farmer; but what then? Why i’ll tell you, reply’d Lucius, suppose you cut it down, and sell it, and pay your debt with the money; Mr. Manly will never miss it.
THE farmer here held up his hands, and his wife examined him more narrowly, and, if possible, with greater terror than before. At last, the honest man, starting up, as if affronted, shock’d, and insulted j cry’d. Get out o’ my house, ye villain; do ye tak me for a rogue? And, here he seiz’d a large oak Sapling, that stood in the chimney corner. Lucius got up, and was beginning to speak in his own defence; but he had hardly opened his lips, when he was interrupted. Yo a gentleman! yo the devil! Ay, cry’d the wife, it is the devil. Sure enough, for all he has hid his cloven foot. Here, gi’ me the money, cried she to the children; there, tak yo’r cursed money, added she, throwing it at him; every gesture

Felicia td Charlotte.'
71
ture expressing the fright and agitation of her mind. Lucius endeavoured in vain to Speak; Get out was still repeated, and the husband, holding up his faplin2:, advancing, cry’d, I’U See if he be the devil or no. On this, poor Lucius retreating backwards, tumbled over the threshold into the yard, and the door was immediately clapped to, and lock’d. He received, however, not the least damage by the fall, except what his coat and wig Sustained; for a heap of friendly dung, that had been kindly rais’d by some cows and horses, received the fallen, tho’ formidable Lucius. But, tho’ his bed was Soft, it was not a fit place to rest in; he arose, therefore, immediately, when he overheard the poor honest man cry out to himself: God forbid that I should be Such a villain, as this felley would ha me be. i’d go to a gaol first. If I arn miserable, I am honest at least, and, after aw, that is Some comfort. Meanwhile the Servant, who was walking in the yard. Seeing Lucius in this disorder, ran to his astistance; but, finding him already upon his legs, without Speaking a word, in a moment broke the door, which, it Seems, was a very slight one, to pieces. The woman was, unhappily, fainted away in a chair, and
the good man was assisting her: him he Seized
by
72
 '
by the collar, and, in an instant, threw up hb heels, and was preparing to revenge the abuse done to his master, when Lucius put astde the blow, and, with difficulty, dragged him away,, for he quitted his hold with much reluctance. But they had hardly mounted their horses, when the farmer's Son, and a Servant man and maid, who had heard the bustle, the two first from the stable, and the last from the dairy, came running to the field of battle. A Speedy retreat was absolutely necessary, for this was now an improper time to hold a parley; they, therefore, having gained the gate of the yard, let Spurs to their horses, and were Soon out of sight.
Thus, Madam, I have given you the history of one day’s ramble, and, if nothing prevents, I shall, very Speedily, send you the ffe quel of the story of these two farmers, with
Such opposite characters: Mean time I am
very much
Your ladyship’s, kc
Felicia Manly,

LET
\
to Charlotte.
73
LETTER XXXII
O U think it strangcj Madam, that though Lucius should relate the discourse of the farmers, in the diale<st of the county, I should have memory s.ifficient to retain the pronunciation; and, from this remark, you infer, that
I have had more regard to your diversion, than to the veracity of an historian. But here you are greatly mistaken; you ought to constder the difficulty of living in the country, without catching the peculiarities - of the language. This I have Sufficiently obtained; so that I have nothing more to do, than to remember the words: the pronunciation I have already. I have a good deal of the country accent, in my ordinary conversation, and, whenever I am disposed to it, can talk in the true diale<st,
almost; as fluently as the Sprightly milkmaid, or the wife of the ploughman.
The day after she adventure of the two farmers, I was rto Sooner stirring, than I heard an unusual bustle below stairs, and Several persons talking very loud, with Some Sounds, which, though I could not perfectly understand, Seemed to express great amazement. My woman c9uld give me no latisfarstion, I,
vol. II E shercfore^
\

74
 .'
therefore, desired her to ring the bell; when st Servant entered the room, with as much terror in her looks, as if she had just Seen a ghost. What is the matter, Mary? Said I ^ you look frighted. O law, Madam, cried she, wud * you think it! Did you ever hear the like? The devil has appeared to my f neam and my naunt Saunders, and teld them, that as how — as how — As how what? returned I, Why as how, continued she, he wud ha him cut down aw she ’squire’s trees, and he wud gi’ him a power o’ money for them; and he gived them Some money, which was, I fup pose, for arneft; but they wud no’ tak’ it. Indeed, Madam, it is true; for, I verily believe, we shall ha’ the w’oll story in print. Pho, pho, is shat all? .cried I j it is an idle tale,
take
* Teu, in this county, carries, with it, something of the idea of a compliment, as expressing more refpc6t than Ta and, for this reason, hui bands and wives, in particular, who, on common occafi9nj, politely, a8 they think, make use of the word You, whenever they quarrel, constantly contraa it into To. This is an observation particularly recorn jnended to the consideration of that ingenious gentleman, the compiler of the English drfltionary, MOW in the pressed.
f My neam, and my naunt j other counties say. *ifer and gammer
Fslicia to Charlotte.
75
talce my word for it. Pray, what sort of a de vtl was it? O! he was a meety civil devil at first. Said she, and as like a honfome man as ever you feed; but, at last, he vanished out oath door, as one may say, in a stash o’ fire; and then they 0 made the idoor aster him, when an ugly devil came pop through the key hole, and wud sean ha’ murdered the good mon; but the hondfome devil poo’d him away, and wud no’ let him; but, as they went out, they had like to ha takken the fide o’ the house wi’ em; for the doore was broken aw to pieces, and to be Sure shere was a great smell of brimstone. I mar’l whether the handfbme devil
had no great Saucer een, when my neam was ' going to strike him; for goody Simple says, sha thinks sha heard say as much. But the ugly devil had two great platter een, like balls of fire, and turned into the terriblest creature that ever was lieem There is nothing in it, Mary, said I, I am sure of it. Nay, Madam, said she, to be sure you know best, and I am a’most o’ your mind, for tho’ they say, Old Nick can dizen himself like an angel of leet, yet yo know as how he can never go without his cloven foot; and Betty Saunders look’d
E 2 wi’
Shat thf door.
76
 '
i
wi’ aw the een in her head, but cou’d na see it. But, methinks, it is a pity Such a fine story shu’d no’ be true; for, of aw things, I like to hear about ghosts, and haunted houstn, and suchlike. Our Robin, Madam, loss ’d at goody Simple, and said shu was a lying awd witch, and talk’d as thof’ he would kick her out o’the house;; we wud no let him; and then he stew into a passion, and said his een were no more like platters, nor balls of fire, than hern, and if shu said it again, he wud kick her a— —; I mean. Saving your presence. Here she dropped a courtesy. Bat, continued she, we cou’d no tell what to make o’ that, for the Squire came in, and said. Hush, not a word, Hobin; and then staid to Kear the woman himself, while she eat the
M
meat I giv’d her quietly, and made me fetch her a mug of ale.
Well, said I, I have enough of this idle
stuff; tell John he must go and bring Mrs. Saunders to me. Here Lucius appeared, and added. And her husband too, and bid him be Sure to tell him he must not be frighted; for I have Some good news for him. And then coming to me, as Mary left the room, Well, ■yyy dear, said he, you find I am mounted on the wings of same j Mary, I suppose, has given
you

Felicia to Charlotts.'
77
you a full account. O yes, laid I, they are resolved to make a devil of you; they have already colleffed Some diabolical eircumftances, and I don’t doubt but before night they will have dreised up you, and your man, with all the terrors that the most wild imagination can invent. No matter, said Lucius, iho’ they paint me in the charatster of a devil, the portrait they give of me is so unlike the oiiginal, that I (hall never be known by it. If poor Robin is already Such a monster, what must he be by tomorrow morning, when the story will be Spread through the whole county, and every one has added Some dreadful eireum ftance to the fiction?? and hoofs will be the least of his deformities. Had the old woman staid till then, before she brought us the news, poor Robin would have gaped, and stared, and wondered, with the rest. However, I am glad the honest farmer is Sent for. The poor man’s distrest'es have touched me very nearly, and Something must be done for him. I intended to send to him this afternoon, but I am better pleased that I shall see him this morning. Since he will now have a few hours taken from his anxiety, and added to his happiness, A valuable consideration, said
3 I, that
78

I, that ought not to be forgot, whenever we
intend to confer an obligation.
In about two hour’s time, the honest far
4
mer made his appearance on horseback, with
his wife behind nim, fresh shaved, and both
dressed out in their sunday’s garb. All the
strvants, in an Jinstant, ran out to see them,
except my woman and Robin, who was purposely Sent out of the way, on a message to Nottingham; for they had been informed of their coming by John., who returned near an hour before. They difmountcd at the door.
when a volley of questions were, irt a moment,
discharged from every mouth, to which
it was impossible for either of them to answer.
This Lucius and I observed from the diningroom window. I immediately went down, and found that the men had now surrounded
the farmer, and the maids his wife, whom
they all viewed with looks of astonishment, all
defiious of being answered first, as thinking
their own question of the most consequence.
I stood in the hall near a minute, to observe
this ridiculous seen; but, whatever answer
they had received, I observed a general air of
diflatisfadlion, almost as great as that which
appeared immediately after j when, in order
to draw the good couple from the clamour of
this





79

fills tormenting persecution, I ordered them to be conduced into a back parlour facing the garden, and I could hear distin<fify, as they (e paratcd, one cry, No cen of fire! another, No cloven foot! and, from different voices. No horns! No tail! No nothing, I think; it’s a pity! Ah! what a fine story is here ca, northeast to nought!'
They had been in the pailour about two minutes when I went to them : X found them standing; but taking a chair myself, insisted upon their being seated, which, after Some clumfey strapes from the one, and as auk ward curtefies from the other, they, at last, complied wkh; but sat together, dofc trp to
i
the walt, in the most distant corner of the room. As Soon as this ceremonial was over, which lasted Some time, for these country people certainly think good manners consists in being troublesome, Mrs. Saunders, said f, they tell very strange things of you. You have been dealing with the devil, it Seems; at least, he has been paying you a visit. Who, I deal with the devil cry’d she good woman, in a fright; Lord help me, I hope 1 ha’ nothing to do wi’ him. I hope so too, said I; but, pray what foundation is there for this strange story? Here she related it, in much
L 4
the
io

the Same manner that Lucius had done, only omitting her hulband’s account of his misfortunes, and making use of the terms, handsome Jevil, and ugly devil, to make a distinction between them : but she mistook one circum
y
stance; which, indeed, had, as she understood it, a very diabolical appearance; for she as serted, that the last time Lucius and Robin entered the house, they came in through the keyhole, and broke the door to pieces, as they went out; but here the husband interposed, anst Set her right; when she apologiz’d for her mistake, by Saying, that she Saw the door h'ck’d, before she fainted away, and when sh: came to herfels, she found it broke to pieces; and as she was before pretty Sure it was the devil, she thought it most natural for him to come in at the keyhole, and to take the Side of the house, or the door, at least, a way with him, when he went out; for this she lemembered to have heard, when a child, was his custom. And she concluded, with assuring me, that she would not tell a lye about it, I believe so. Said I, and I am very well pleased with your Sincerity; for, as I know the story better than you, you could not have deceived me. That is very strange, cry’d the honest man, with a look of amazement;
Know


8i
Know it better than we! Why, Madam, you was no’ in my house too! If it be strange, said I, it is true; but I heard a very different story this morning. Why as to the matter of that. Madam, cry’d the wife, folks tell so many lies about it, that I am asheamed to hear them : and wud you think it? they are angry at me, a cause I weant fey as they fey, and wall ha’ it their own wev, whether I will or no.
Well, that is not your fault, said I; but you stiould not have so readily imagined it to be an evil Spirit. Nor strould you, Mr. Saunders, have been so ready to conclude him a rogue. You ought, at least, to have heard what he had to say in his own defence, for it
m
was not without reason that he made the
proposal of your cutting down Mr. wlanly’s
trees. You may take my word for it that you are both mistaken. 1 know every particular
of the story. You, Mr. Saunders, gave a very moving account of your misfortunes to a very worthy gentleman, the person you call the handsome devil. He heartily pitied you: he resolved to Serve you, and, I affure you, that you may now deep Securely, and awake without dread : for he hath pleaded your cause so effectually to Mr. Manly, that he has pro
£5 missed
<2
 '
/
railed to take the debt upon himself, and t wait till you can, conveniently, pay him. The farmer lifted up his eyes, and, in an ecstasy, cried out, God bless ’in f and then Seemed endeavouring to Say more, but stopped, as if the struggle in his breast, between joy and gratitude, choked up his voice : however. Some tears, at least, as expreirve of words, stood ready to sail from his eyes, which, with once or twice turning aside his head, he wip’d away with the back of his hand. Meanwhile, the good woman cried out, in a shrill key: A ho»d fbme devil !< A hondfome angel! God reward him, and tive squire to boot. But what made, the (elevation of her voice more remarkable; was the low trembling diffidence with which file Spoke before. 1 here was now a Silence sat least, half a fninute, which ended in the
/
Id woman’s bursting out a crying, which she
did most heartily, repeating Several times, with
her hand on her hushanff's knee, and'her eyes
fixed very affedlionately on his. Well, I was
never so glad in aw my life,. — No, never in aw
fny life. At last the farmer cried,, lifting up
his eyes, and looking at me. An angel! ay,
an anirel indeed I or, after aw the usage I ha’^
-- -- Well, god’s blessing leet upon
you aw 1; I thank you, Mr. Saunders, Said I,
i
gi’n him

*3
if you reckon me among the number. But here comes either your landlord, or your
friend.
Lucius, who had been walking in the garden, in order to give me time to prepare them to see him, was now coming up an avenue facing the door; but, at the mention of the word landlord, I observed, that the poor man’s diffidence and reserve, which began to wear off, immediately returned, and his features, in a moment, became contra<fied; perhaps his joy was damped by the very idea of a person, whom he had before considered only as an objedi of fear. But, however this be, not the least alteration appeared in the wife, except a little femalie ambition, or rather, that regard for decency, and decorum of charaifter, which is as visible in the Spruce dairy maid, as in the duchess. She, therefore, took her eyes from her husband, and her hand from his knee, laid smooth her clean, though coarse white apron, pulled down, lower, a pair of old-fashioned ruffles, and stroak’d her hair under her cap : and this was done with the natural motion, and composed look, which fometrmes makes all the distinction between these ac ^ns, when performed by?, country housewife,
£6 and


J
84
F E LICIA TO C H A R LO T T E.

and the more affe<fied airs of Some lady dif tincstion.
Lucius now opened rhe door, when I cried, O Sir, is it you? I have prepared them to see you, and you may Safely come in, without being taken for a devil. And then addressing myself to the farmer. Here is your friend. Said I, do you know him, now he has chang’d his dress?? returned my compliment; and then running to the farmer, who was standing biting his hat, by the Side of his wife. My ho inest friend. Said he, I am glad to See you. Well, are you disposed to knock me down now? 7 he farmer (craped, the wife curtessed, and both begged his pardon. Well, replied he, you sshd 1 don’t resent your treatment of me. hut, Madam, won’t you favour me with a glass of wine, to drink to my new friends? added he, turning to me. To be Sure, said I, and rung the bell, on which, a Servant coming, the wine was called for, and being brought, the man was ordered to retire. Lucius filled, and taking the farmer by the hand, wished him happier days; and having, each of them, drank their glass, he desired the honest man to take a turn or two with him in the garden;
I
and, at the same time, begged the favour of me to go with them, alleging, that I might
leave


leave my woman to keep Mrs. Saunders company.
As this story, of the appearance of the devil, had Spread, with wonderful fwiftness, thro’ the country, Lucius was unwilling it should be known, that he had any hand in it : and, indeed, he had not the least ambition of being distinguished, among the country gentlemen, by The name of the handsome devil; a title, which would be inevitably given him, was he known to be the principal astor. And, be sides, as he had more tenants to vlfit, he would not have it mentioned, that he had ever vi sited any of them; Since the rest might expect to see him, in the same manner, and, beino put upon their guard, might frustrate his design, of penetrating into their characters, manners, and circumstances. These motives were the rise of this preconcerted plot, of making him appear rather as the friend of Lucius, than as Lucius himself, before the farmer’s wife; whom, tho’ a very good sort of a woman, he was unwilling to trust with a Secret of Such consequence.
We were no Sooner In the garden, than the farmer, addressing himself to Lucius, said. You mun excuse me, — I conno’ thank you as I wud. If you could read my thowts,
there
t6
_ j

there wud be no need of words to tell ycwr my joy, my Surprise, my gratitude. But yc munforgi* me, if I say, I love you, for it is no’ my fault, 1 conno’ help it: and this lacfy mun forgive me too: our ladies are So proud they weant Speak to a poor mon:; but Shu is fb good, - So free, and the messenger of Such good news, that I conno’ Irelp loving her; and my heart will say, in Ipight o me, God bless her, and my kind' freend : and e’en let it lay so and it wulj: for, if I did no’ gi my heart this vent, I verily believe it wud burst. I never preyd so heartily in aw my born days, and never said prayers wi’ haus the pleasure I say these two or three word?. You have made a new mon o’ me; I verily believe, I coum' o’most pray for. you as well as a parson;; as well, as those I read in a. book. Thank you, thank )ou, God blefs you too, we both reply’d, at the same time, with a fatisfaflion, though less tumultuous, as delightful, at lead, as his:, and, indeed, the poor man appeared raised above himself; the transports of his joy, by getting a vent in words. Seemed to become more exquisite. He talked with a greater volubility of Speech, to which a half pint glass swine, which he had lately drank, might, perhaps, contribute. His eyes Sparkled with
affetstionate
felicra xa Charlotte.
By
affe6uonate gratitude, and a kind of delightful rapture Seemed hovering over every lineament of his countenance.
The good man was now filent, but, after
#
a short pause, resumed. Is this the mon I turned out o’ my house?? this he, that I was yeasterday going to strikewell, no matter, had I used him kindly, 1 shud no’ ha’ know’d him so well. I wud ha’ done or honest thing for him, for Saving me from a
jeyl, I wud ha’ look’d upon him as my best steend.. It wud ha’ been a kind a<stk)n, and I shud ha’ remembered it as long as I lived; but, methinks, I shud no’ ha’ loved him so weel as I do now. But, good Sir, are you fiire ’squire Monfy weant be hard upon me? Never fear it, replied I, I will answer for your landlord. He thanked me, and then looking at Lucius, cry’d. My generous friend; mun not I know' to whom I am obliged? Mun not I know your neame? O yes, replied Lucius, this you shall soon know; but I must desirc you to keep it a Secret, and not to let, even your wife or Son, know that my name is Manly. What my lonlord himself! cried he.
in a rapture: then, indeed, I ha’ nothing fear! My lonlord that I have abused !' m y
lonlord

8b

lohlord that is So generous! I can only won ^ der. What shall I do for you? How muni make you amends? Leave that to me, Lucius reply’d, here are forty guineas, that I have put in my pocket for. you, to pay the executors of your late landlord, which you must do this evening, before you go; you may give me a note for the money, and I will contrive a way for you to pay it again. I then took my turn, and telling him, that as he had been so diftrelted, he, and his family, might want some of the common necessaries of life, to Supply which, I desired his acceptance of five .guineas, which he received, bowing low, with a submissive kind of joy and rapture. Lucius how gave him an account of his going to Thomas clod’s, and of his telling him that he had cut down his trees; but, as he was yet undetermined how to proceed with him, desired him to keep a stri<sl watch, that none of ithem were removed, and no more cut down, without giving him immediate notice; adding, that he would pay him handfomsly for his trouble: and dinner being now ready, the farmer went in, and rejoined his wife. They both dined at our table, and, after Lucius had again privately enjoined the good man to secrecy.

Felicia to Gharlotte.
89
crecy, they, with many warm, though homely testimonies of gratitude, took their leave.
I am. Madam,
Your ladyship’s
moji affediionate friend,
Felicia Manly.
LETTER XXXIII
Dear Madam,
U C lus has been again among his tenants, and has now finished his ramble. The last time he was out upon this expedition, he observed a man with white locks, and a venerable afpe£l; but want and care, rather than extreme old age, Seemed to have Silvered his hair; his eyes were hollow, his person tall and meagre, and he had a placid Serenity in his countenance, that bespokea kind of joyfyl composure of mind. His coat was of broadcloth, and, though worn threadbare and well patched, was perfectly clean. He was coming out of a house, with a bag in his hand, which he Seemed desirous to conceal. The
i
oddness
oo
 "
oddness of his appearance, in a country villas^e, joined to an air, that Seemed to command re fpe(st, engaged the attention of Lucius, who became curious enough to ferma resolution to know, if possible, who he was, and what that could be which he endeavoured to conceal: and, therefore, dismounting, he led his horfe by the bridle, and followed, at Some' distance, till he Saw him enter a Small thatch’d house, and shut the door after him. Thither Lucius diredfed his steps, and, on his arrival, was going to knock at the door, when turning: his head to the window, he observcd the same person standing before a table, and, with his eyes lift up. to heaven, with a look, of thank fuiness, utter a Seemingly devout ejaculation, and' then Sit down by the fide of an elderly
woman.
now
the but end of his whip, on which, as it happened" not to be latched, it immediately flew open, when, to his great astonishment, he Saw an earthen plate of grains, fttioaking on the table, which they endeavoured to conceal, by throwing the end of a ragged damask napkiii, which served for a tablecloth, over it; and iinmediately rose up,
lucius’s furprise was hardly to be ex prestedi Is this said he, what occasioned tucls
marks

91
\
marks of devotion. Such thankfulness and gratitude? Was it this that you were So desirous to conceal? Yes, replied the old man; but, why should you rudely prefsto discover, what I was unwilling to have known? Why should you thus mortify the little pride that is left me? .1 beg pardon, said Lucius, for an intrusion, which i cannot justify: but Satisfy my curiostty, andffet me know by what terrible disaster you are drove to this dreadful extremity. Yet stay— — me, first, prevail upon you to provide Some provisions more fit for human creatures. You must have a great mind to be able to Support Such want, and to rejoice over a meal, that would make others, of less piety, repine at providence. Though, in the midst of affluence, I could almost envy your resignation, that bespeaks you more than human. Accept of this. Sir, continued Lucius, throwing down five guineas upon the table, and provide Something more proper for your refreshment. The old man, first lifting up his eyes to heaven, took up the money, with an air of extreme thankfulness, accompanied with very polite expressions of gratitude; and immediately gave one of the pieces to his wife, who presently returned with Some
heef steaks, and a loaf i however, in this interval.
/
/

92
Fexicia to Charlotte.
terval, they took their Seats, and the old man began in the following manner :
I don’t wonder at your being surprised at a meal, which, when I was of your age, would have given me equal aftonissiment; but want will make us relish the coarseft fare, and hunger Sweeten the most disagreeable morsel. I was born a gentleman, but Spent a good fortune in the service of an ungrateful family, and, as Tam now persuaded, in a very bad cause, I am a native of Scotland, and was educated in the national religion j but carried away by the heat of youth, and a Set of ridiculous principles, which I imbibed from Some of my companions, I Sold my estate, and went over into Ireland, and entered, as a volunteer, in king james’s army, where I sought in defence of a leligion, the most opposite to my own. But, I must do myself the justice t fey, that ambition was not my motive. I was present at the battle of the Boyne, and in almost every battle afterwards, in which my master distinguished himself by a Superior
cowardice. -- -- But, I will not tyre you with a
repetition of what everybody knows already. At the battle of Aghrim, when our army was entirely routed, it was with difhculty I made
my escape j and, as I lost all my baggage, my
for tune.

/
V
 '
n
fortune, which before was almost exhausted, was, by this event, entirely ruined. I returned into Scotland, with a wife and two young children: and pleased with the hopea of feeing my relations, particularly a tender father, and a brother, with whom I had been brought up from my infancy, T arrived at Kirkaldy, the place of my birth, where I found that my father died at London Some time before. Here, I Soon experieiked, that my wants, instead of entitling me to relief, only Served as a pretence for treating me with contempt. Nay, my nearest relations hardly knew me. It was with difficulty that I got access, even to my brother, though of the same political principles with myjelf, I was Suffered to wait in the hall, like a common Servant. I was choked with indignation, yet I smother’d my resentment: in short, after only lying a night or twb in his house, with a barbarity, unknown to Savages, I, with my wife and children, after many affronts, were civi/fy turn’d out of doors, and obliged to shift for ourselves, Strange effect of immoderate Self-love I Said Lucius; in its extremes, the most odious of all the passions, and the most fruitful of mischief! How strong must it be, when it can thus cancel the Sacred bond of nature, and dis
solve
/

4
 '
Solve the holy tie of brotherhood! Ay, ay, reply’d the old man, whoever is in want, let him apply to a stranger, and he will have no gall poured over the friendly morsel. If he is in distress, let him sty to his friend, and he will not be humbled with the contumely of a proud relation. I was now a stranger in the very town where I was born, and where 1 had Spent the greatest part of life. Stung to the quick with this indignity, and enraged beyond all postibility of bearing the place, my native country became hateful to me. I resolved to Set out for England; and had it not been for the humanity of Some persons, with whom I
A
had a very slender acquaintance, and, particularly, a gentleman, a friend of my father's, who, with a cheerful benevolence, that doubled the obligation. Supplied me with what was northeast cestary to bear the expense of my journey, I might, perhaps, have been driven to the extremity of begging my bread.
You see. Sir, continue he, that, amidst the greatest misfortunes, the contempt of my relations still sticks nearest my heart; not that it now gives me any great uneastnefs, for my affe<stion for them is converted into a calm and Settled contempt. Yet, were our circumstances changed, I would still Serve them to the utmost
PMLFCIA TO charlot'tis
95
/
ifnpst of my power. I would not, indeed, give them my esteem: this 1 reserve for the
deserving.
But I tyre you with my refiec
^tions.
We arrived in London, and, by the assistance of a friend, 1 entered into trade; but by ridiculously lending my note to an acquaintance, the most pernicious and destructive custom that ever was introduced.amongst tradesmen, I was reduced to very great extremities. However, these were, at last, Surmounted, and, wish a mixture of fwccefs and misfortune, I continued 4n .the same station for upwards of twenty years : and, believe me. Sir, abject as my condition now seems, it appears to me, even preferable, to the anxiety I then frequently felt, from the fear of duns, the dread of a gaol, and the uneasy apprehension, lest Some honest man should lose by my misfortunes : the last,, in particular, was a constant shock to my, humanity; and where the perfbn was in low circumstances, and had, a family that, by
my means, would be Sufferers, the thought stung me to the soul, and gave me the most pungent anguish. Add to this, the many mortifications I received from the purfe proud tradesman, whose common maxim is, that, Mvfry wi«i* poy h rich f ht will; and that
frequent
9^

frequent breach of veracity, with respe£l to times of payment which the necessity of my affairs Sometimes rendered unavoidable. This last, a love of justice, and a fix’d and steady
j » *1 ♦ t » ^
regard for truth, rendered most irksome and painful: in one word, it wias a wound festering in my conscience.
At last, I Sold my stocky paid my debts, and retired to this place, with my Wife and a boy of ten years old. I cheerfully maintained my family by my labour while my strength lasted, and enjoyed a Serenity that I cannot remember to have tasted, in the midst of my early assluence. With a conscience undisturbed, and a mind free from care, I applied myself to reflection, and Softened the fatigue of labour, with large draughts of knowledge, with an improvement in piety, and the study of vif tue and religion. I had before learned the ways of men, I now took a review of my own. I had long Since imbibed the philosophy of the Schools: I now reduced it to praclice, and laying by my Seneca and epictetus, applied myself to the study of the Scriptures, and to open my heart for the reception of those divine truths which lead the mind to God, wrapp’d up in a happy Solitude, I confider everything, here below, only as it tends to
jny

97
my eternal welfare; and, while I grasp at an immortality of joy, find but little inconvenience from the coarseness, and indelicacy, of my poor repast. I have no other assistance but what I receive from my dear boy, who is now above twenty. With a filial aste<5l: ion he forces me to receive a good part of the fruits of his labour; but, alas! that is much too little to find him in clothes, and us in the means
■»
of fubsistance; and I am loth to have my wants known, lest this should again subject me to contempt, and more particularly, as it might prejudice his hopes; for he is excessive Jy fond of a farmer’s daughter, who, though, her father is a weak, and no very honest man, is very worthy of his affe<stion. We have lived, for Some time, on those salads which the fields afford, but they are not now to be" had: young nettle tops, boiled, were next our daily food; of these being tired, I, some days ago, tasted some fresh grains; I was hungry,
* A ^
and found them palatable, for what will not hunger make fb? And, as I frequently amuse myself with fishing, by which I, sometimes, gain a delicious repast, I am not fufpe<fied of wanting them for my own nourishment. This circumstance affords me no Small pleasure, for all temporal happiness consists more in the
Voi. II F opinipft

s

opinion of others, than on what we eat anil
I HAVE just nientioned my Son to you, be is a lad of probity and integrity, and, if I may judge, from the present you have just made mof you are in circumstances that will allow
you to be of Service to him: let tne recomi” ' mend him to your protection.
pitv, Lucius Says, was she least of all the passions which Seized him, upon hearing this story; his compastion gave way to surprise and
admiration : and she graceful manner, wish which this truly yenerable man exprested hira felf, still heightened that esteem, which was justly .raided, by Such exasted piety. Such con tentmem and resignation. Lneius, therefote* very frankly replied, shat he judged right as to his circumstance, bj^t shat he had not lets
4
inclination than ability to Serve them all. He desired his friendship. He took him by the hand, apd, with the strongest exprestions (It esteem, astured hun, that he would do hips
e... _
all the service in his power. The steaks now ready, and she good man asked him, if he would not do him she honour to partake of
t *
a meal, which he himself had enabled them to
As Lucius had not dined, he, very
leadily, accepted she invitation? on condititm
shat

9^
that he and his fbn should dine with him the next day, when they would consider what could be done for the young man. This was immediately agreed to, and, while they were at table, Lucius desired him to explain Several passages in his story, which he did not per fe<stly understand, and, particularly, what he meant by lending of notes. This being done, the discourse again turned upon the hardships he Suffered, with rcfpe6: to his way of living j hardships, which Lucius said, were unknown to the rest of mankind, and which he could not think without expreffng the most lively marks of astonishment. The good man Smiled. At first. Said he, this gave m Some uneasy thoughts; but I Soon learned to conquer them, and to be thankful for the coarsest morsel. I represented to myself the excruciating tortures which rack numbers of mankind, and aiked myself, what comparison could be made between exquisite pain, and a mouthful of unpalatable provisions: I ac' fcnowledged the difference, and bleffed.the being that made our cafe preferable to theirs. The hardships endured in sieges are much greater than ours, for, at the siege of Derry, a plate of grains would have been delicious
F 2 fare.
lod
fare. They would have looked upon this aa blessing, and shall I repine at what would have filled them with joy? besides, could I have made my cafe known, which my aversion to the contempt which always attends poverty, and my regard for my fon has prevented, we might have lived in a much better, manner.; for whey, and butter milk, would not have been refused rae. My wife and I, are both Satisfied, and thoroughly convinced, that true happiness does not consist in Such trifles as these: : wherever there is inward complacency. humanity of heart, and devout thankfulness, .there is .ccntept, there is the noblest
’tis very strange, said Lucius, but whoever calls for assistance, is Sure to meet with contempt.and Scorn from every ignorant blockhead : yet, there is a chain which runs through all nature, by which every Species of beings have a dependance upon each other: but, let ns view only man., that proud being, that, in ipite of all the clearest didlates of reason, and nil the laws and impulses of nature, would fain persuade himself that he stands alone, and tree from obligations; wraps himself up in felf fusslciency, and refuses to confer on another,
'Khat, he imagines, he does not want himself.
Th
  Set
0
The infant no Sooner breathes, than, with a puling cry, he proelairris his wants, which the fond mother is, at first, but litde able to rc'. lieve; he is, therefore, committed to strangers, and receives his first obligations from them : he grows up, and daily demands help from his parents, and, as his years increase, his depem dance, and obligations, become more general, even for the means of life, the Support of his very being, and the cultivation of his mind; till, at last, he becomes a debtor to thousands. If he is ashamed of this dependance, for the
Same reason he must be ashamed that he is a
%
man: but if, after this, he refuses his assistance, or contemns him that stands in need of it, he is no longer a man, but a monster.
Fine reasons I fine reasons!! the old man. Smiling; but you will never be able to persuade a miser, that avarice is a greater crime than poverty; or anybody elfe, that to be poor is not to be contemptible. There is
no man so stupid. Said Luejus, as to believe that poverty is really criminal, or even contemptible : it is, indeed, in their opinion, a thing to be dreaded, not that they think it in fe<stious, but for fear they should be asked for what they cannot give, confistently with their notions of self-love, nor refuse, without Some
F 3
inward

102

inward commotions, on the fide of humanity. And, for this reason, those, who, from an immoderate and false self-love, study to keep their humanity under, always take care, for their own sakes, to represent poverty to themselves, as Something ridiculous, mean, and contemptible. They are sensible of the amiable jiefs of the friendly dispositions;; a fear of being fuspetsted to want, either them, or the abilities necessary for the exercise of them, may, possibly, be the pritkipal realbns, why the rich are ashamed of their poor relations; as it may be thought, that they themselves are either not So wealthy as is imagined, and, therefore, that they cannot, or that they have nothing really amiable in them, and therefore vil not, relieve them. A kind of pride, the most wicked in hfelf, and the most pernicious to Society.
Thus we may derive all the calumny that falls upon the unfortunate, from the same self interested views; a struggle against the strong impressions of nature, an endeavour to suppress the more generous sentiments of humanity. From ray little experience, I have found, that, whenever a man fails, let his probity have been ever so conspicuous, it then becomes necessary, that his conduct should be arraigned,
and
/
V
filicia to csartotts. IO
end more particularly so by his relations, and the fclf interefted amongst his friends; for where no ast of humanity is expected, the man may still remain esteemed. His virtues,
m
such as industry, care, and application, are not
what they look for; these, therefore, arc
thrown aside as ufeless lumber: biit, if art al of humanity be found, though he was therj
in a capacity to be generous, it is immediately
thrown into the heap of follies; nor is there
an indiferetion in his whole life, that can be
thought of, but it is mentioned, to increase the
load; ^ner wonder, then, that it becomes
enormous. Thus want of success, which no
f, ^ '
mortal can secure, is charged as guilt, and the unhappy honest man is treated with a hundred times more contempt and obloquy, than the successful villain. And self-love, shifting the disgrace further from itself, the relations of a husband throw the greatest load of blame on his wife, whilst those, on her Side, cast it back on her husband.
Will she never have done? methinks. Madam, I hear you say. Yes, I answer. But you ought to remember, that I have been
the history of » hero
■ \
giving you tne niitory or » nero in patience, and this should put your ladyship in Blind, that it does not become you to express
F 4 much
/
104 frlicia TO Charlotte.
much uneasinefs at Such a trifle, as the length of a letter; for I have nothing more to inform you, but that Lucius, having dined heartily, took his leave, and, with the hopes of feeing the good man and his fon, the next day, jogged home. And, therefore, I am at liberty to break off, and Subscribe myself.
Your ladyship’s
moji Jincere friend.
Felicia manly.
LETTER XXXIV
I *
£ L L Madam, I have now leen this venerable old man, whose history I 'gave you in my last j and, I can affure you, he perfectly answers the description Lucius gave me of him. His fon is a well made a greeable young fellow, and, though he finished his education in a country village, it Seems has a good share of learning; but this is not at all furpnfuig, as his father was his tutor. His behaviour has too much of the gentleman, for him ever to make a good clown; and he has
too much bashfulnefs to pafs for a gentleman.
It


105
It was easy to See that he had never been in Such company before; for he blushed whenever he was Spoke to, and, when he answered, it was with as much diffidence, and precaution in placing his words, as if he had been before a magistrate. In short, if his Serftiments are at all answerable so the'ingenuity of his look, he, with his fair Daphne, or Amaryllis, might make a good figure in a pastoral 'eclogue.
After dinner, under the pretence of taking a walk in the garden, Lucius eondudled us to a neat house, just on the outside of the back door, leading into the fields. He asred the good man how he liked it, and he, as he ex peisted, admiring the Situation, Lucius, in very polite terms, desired his acceptance of it for life. Our venerable guest received this favour, with all imaginable testimonies of gratitude, while bis Son, by his Iook% leemed in a rapture of joy : and, indeed, as it has only four
rooms, that is, two on a floor, it is a mart
/
proper enough for an anchorite. be fides, Lucius has promised to furnish it, and I am to make him a present of as many books as he shall have occasion for; a catologue of Some of which, I have engaged our hermit jhimfelf to write out for me.
Fs
ig6
While they were taking a view of tfeifc foiall building, a Servant came to inform us that the farmer, who had been here some days before, desired to Speak with his master. Lucius, immediately, gave orders that he should be admitted; the honest man came, and stepping aside with him, informed him, that the trees, which he had been ordered to watch were to be removed the next day. At this news, Lucius Sent for Glod, with orders that
he should come directly, and bring his counter least. Lucius had, beforcj related the whole affair to Mellifont, and he again to a gentleman of the law, who has an estate in this part of the country; he strenuously asserted, that he ought to undergo the penalty mentioned in his contra<fi, that is, to pay ofte hui dred pounds, to forfeit his lease, and to make good the damage; and that lenity, in this cast, would be an ill precedent, with resperst to the other tenants: whilst Lucius was of opinion, that as the whole affair had been told to him in confidence, his honour would not permit him to proceed to extremities; and the good old man, to whom he now told the story, without mentioning the farmer’s name, was of the same opinion; but could not help Smiling at the silly fellow's talking of being i paid

10?

paid for his trouble, in cutting down trees that; he had no right to meddle with. The conversation then turned on the young man, who was next to be provided for, and being found to be very well qualified for the post, he was chose house steward, and an apartment as figned him in our house, consisting of a bedchamber, a parlour, and a little room for ant oihce.
The joy of the tender parent was now complete, and tears of gratitude rolled down his venerable cheeks. He lifted up his Swimming eyes to heaven, and then casting them down upon us, blest'ed us with an ardour that Spoke the fullness of a heart, lost in devout thankfulness. O little did I think, cried he, of living to see Such a day as this. My God, I thank thee I and, O bless my benefadlors, as they have been the means of Westing me 1 Here he took hold of lucius’s hand, and pressed it between his, then raistng it up to his lips, I thank you for my dear boy, cried he : I joyfully commit him to your care. May it be always his study to deserve your goodness.
Here the young man, finding his good father make a pause, stepped forwards, and then
bowing, Excuse me, Sir, Said he, with a tone
/
F 6
that
io Felicta to Charlotte.,
4
that Seemed to arise from a mixture of timb roufnefs, and a joy too big for utterance, if I
want words — to express my thankfulness— —
*
a favour, greater — vastly greater than all my hopes — but — a— — gratitude — my care and my fidelity — stiall best thank you : but what return — Here, he made a long pause, and seemed quite lost; when the old with a little confusion in his look, cry’d, You (ee. Sir, the effects of a want of genteel corn pany, my Son has no illiberal education, nor does he want either lense or words to express
himself, wherr among people of a lower class, with whom our circumstances have hitherta permitted him only to converse. Luciu» Smiled, and clapping the youth on the shoulder, with a free and familiar air, said, he would take care to remedy that fault; and this freedom of behaviour seemed to have ait immediate effefl, for, in an instant, the young man’s confusion and disorder seemed to vanish, and being now pretty jwell astured, prompted by a little female curiosity, I desired him to give us the particulars of his amour with the farmer’s daughter. He blushed, and, after a short pause, conlented, and, with more af surance, and less kefitation, though not without


Fslicia to Charlottes
out fear and trembling, gave us the following account.
When I was about eighteen, as I was riding back from watering my master’s horses, they took fright; the horse I rode on, ran a way with me, and hastily turning short, through a gap in the hedge, threw me. I lay senseless for Some time. When I came to myself, I hardly knew what had pafs’d; I endeavoured to recollect myself, and looking about to fe where I was, immediately cast my eyes on a very agreeable girl, neatly dressed, v'ho was Sitting close by me; she lay half reclined. Supporting herself with one hand on the grass,, the other, which was stretched over my breast, held a .bottle of Salts: but my eyes were hardly open when she arose, and, taking a step or two backwards, with her looks still fixed on me, told me, with an air of great humanity, that she was glad to see me alivci. and alked me how 1 did. I thanked her, and complained of a violent pain in my head; she
was sorry for it, she Said, and wished me a
#
good night. I was then sitting up, and Seeing her about to go, desired her to stay a little, and accept of my company; but she, modestly, refused me. She told me, she wished me well, and again bid me good night, and, without
/
no
out turning her head, walked away as fast as she could. I still continued sitting in the same posture, when a few drops of blood trickling down my face, I lifted up my hand to wipe
I
them away, and moving it towards the place where I felt the greatest pain, was futprised to find a handkerchief tied round my head, to stop the bleeding of a Small wound; for 1 was so stunned with the fall, that I never perceived it before, I was pleased with the pretty girl’s good nature, and the next Sunday, waiting for her coming out of church, having before got the handkerchief washed, returned it with many thanks. She Smiled, and told me I was very little obliged to her, since she did no more for me than what she would have done for any other pi rfon, in the same condition; and very coldly, but civilly, saying, Your Servant, turned away to a young woman, and; taking hold other arm, prevented my saying
jany more.
Poor man I said I, laughing, what a; disappointment was this! I suppose you were a little mortified at it. No, Madam, replied he; indeed I was not. I had returned the handkerchief, and that was all the view I bad in speaking to her. I looked upon her as a
deserving girl: arid was pleased, that though
1 had


f 11
I had not discharged the obligation, I had paid a debt of honour. Here, observing me Smilej excuse me, Madam, added he, for making Mfe of a word, which, I am Sure, does not become the mouth of Such a one as me; but, even ploughmen know what honour means and, though they do not make use of the word,
observe what is meant by it. Lucius Said he was in the right, and desired him to proceed, without minding my looks. On which he resumed.
As I had, frequently, an opportunity of Iee
ins her, this calm esteem made me Sometimes Single her out for conversation. I overtook her, by accident, in the fields, going a milking, I Walked her pace, and Sometimes, when She was returning back, carried her milk pail i and, by this mean?, I, insenfibly, learned, from her mind, what I ought to feel in my own. The nibdest Simplicity of her adbions, thednnocency of her looks, and the goodness of her hearty which was Sure to be affected, whenever an object of compassion was near, were those charms, which I could not resist, and they would, indeed, have been too much for me, had her good sense been less remarkable. I was Soon convinced that what stie had done for me was purely the estetst of her good nature.

Ill
ture. For a long time Ihe strove to avoid me. So that it was by slow degrees I learn’d her value. She began to have an esteem for me. I thought I deserved no other character than that of her friend j I told her So, and (he was not displeased. Innocent in all, she had no idea of love, nor was the name mentioned. At sheep shearing, at the wakes, and at har. vest home, she was constantly invited by my master’s daughters, and I joined in. the jovial merriment. Our esteem for each other increased, till, at last, it rip, ened into love. And, when this was known to ourselves, we were, frighted at the difficulties which lay before us j she told me her story, and pershaded me never to see her more, ^
I
Her mother, a woman of lenle, and very fond of books, took care of her infancy, and gave her too a taste for reading, and embellished her mind with many useful hints, on the excellency of a virtuous character; but she Soon died, and left her to the management of a weak and hardhearted father; who marrying a woman, muchyounger than himself, Suffered her to be treated with the greats eft inhumanity. But, I will not trouble you
with the Severities she told me she met with from a wretch of no principles, a cruel stepmother.

Fflicia to Charlotte.
“3
mother, whose delight it was to give her uneasiness, Her aunt was enraged to See her lifter's child treated So ill; she took her home, and it was at her bouse ftie lived, when I used to have the pleasure of feeing her. An uncle SHERS, who relied in London, has lately left her a hundred pounds, which is all her fortune j for though her father is reckoned to be worth between three and four hundred pounds, she has no expectation from him, as he has now a child by his Second wife, who rules him as she pleases.
1 HAVE not Seen her this month, except at church; but with what reluctance I have Submitted to this, no words can express. I thought her above me. I feared to bring upon her the reproaches of her relations, who, to be Sure, would never consent to our happiness: to her marrying so poor, a man: one So
4
much beneath her. But your generosity, Sistj has removed this obstacle. I am in raptures when I think of it. How shall I express my gratitude? How describe a joy, which no words can paint? It is too much! you are too good, and I am too happy!
Well, Madam, was I not in the right to represent this innocent youth as a person proper to make a shining figure in a pastoral? But
you
II


you See he is above the rank of the Hobbinol of Gay, and would better fuit the mote dignified charatster of pope’s, or phillips’s, gentle Swains, who, with a greater dignity of Sentiment, attune the warbling pipe to mote lofty, more graceful, and harmonious hers.
About an hour after this, the man returned with Clod; Mr. Manly, without the least design of alarming the farmer, had, inadvertently, Sent Robin for him; whom he no Sooner
/'
Set his eyes on, than he recollected that he had Seen him before: and being told that it was his master that went in to drink with him, after he had bought a load of bay, he was in a most terrible fright; he, therefore, came tremb liilg, and entered the hall, where Mr. Manly had stated himself to receive him, with the air of a man going to receive sentence of death, and having made an awkward bow, as he came in. Slunk into a corner. He was defifed to come forwards, which he did very Slowly, looking downwards, and knitting his brows, and then stood before the awful little man, with a fear that made his lips quiver with a convulsive motion. When he was asked how his wife did, and whether She Sfill continued
the same Submissive creature he had repre
stnted
\

”
iented her; he looked very Silly, and. Scratching his head, answered, Yes. Then you are your own master. Said he, again, you are above being ruled by your wife, and, as you make her keep her distar^ce, she must not presume to advise or direcst you, in anything that does not concern her. Yes, was answer’d again. Then, rejoined Lucius, you take the whole blame, and all the guilt, of this affair upon yourselst 1 find I was mistaken; I thought you might have been teafcd into it by the importunity of a wicked woman; a critne that would have admitted of Some alleviation, and, then, though you would have
)
more weakness, yet you would have less guilt.
The man stared, and bit his lips, and, at last, stammering, cry’d. But — but — but shu did persuade me to sell the trees, or I bad no done it. Shu does what shu pleases wi’ me, and I conno’ help it. I thowt no harm. — — Thought no harm! cry’d Lucius, what is there no harm in robbing your landlord? Ay, ay, cry’d the man, there is harm enough in that. But 1 mean, I thought no harm in telling you stich woundy lees about my wife, for I am asheam’d, and wud no’ ha’ people think me Sucsh an old foo’; yet 1 love her for aw
that.
116

that. I find, however, Said Lucius, with » magisterial air, your word is not to be taken j but produce your counter leafe. He now pulled it out of his pocket, and, with a look, that Showed him ready to fink with fear, gave it to Lucius, who just cast his eye on the preamble, and returning it, ordered him to read it himself: but that was impossible;; after he had read two or three short words, and spelled a long one, Lucius observed, that his hand shook to Such a degree, that be would never be able to go through with it.
I WAS standing all this while in a gallery that, leading to Some chambers, crostes the hall j and, looking very attentively over the iron rails, was listening, and, at the same time, costtemplating on my Sancho, Seated below' me, in his two arm’d chair; that formidable appearance, which struck such terror into the self condemned farmer. Just at this time, the venerable old man, whose name I might have told you before, is Trueinan (but since I tell you So now, it is as well) entered with his'fbtt, and looking steadfastly at the farmer, stepped up to Lucius, 'and desired to Speak a word with him in private. He arose from the seat of justice, and walking aside they whispered
for half a minute, and then the old man,
in


  ijt
'/
an great haste, ran out of the hall. The judge Seemed pleased, gave a nod, which stgnified a kind of assent, and, returning to his seat, took, the lease, and giving it to young Truemanji desired him to read it, which he had no Sooner done, than Lucius began. Here you find, that you have not only forfeited your lease, but, besides, are to pay me one hundred pounds, over and above the value of the trees you have unlawfully cut down.
At this instant, the gentle Mrs. Clod, with a child in her arms, burst into the hall, and, without the least regard to anybody present, dire<fied her discourse to her husband. Ah ye foo’, ye blockhead, yo! cried she as loud as she could haul: see what you han browt us too. This is yo’r wise doings, ye oaf yo I Old Clod looked now rnore aghast than ever, and, with his eyes fixed on his wife, who stood behind him, desired her to hold her tonguei but she, lifting up her fist, replied, with great .fury. Hold my tongue, ye villain J hold my tongue! see this poor baby: ye unnatural brute. Yo ha’ ruined us aw, ye have! Clod observing her fist held up in a menacing posture, and hearing these ungrateful sounds, with his head still turned behind him, fidled nearer and
jiearer to Lucius, as the less terrible obje6i of
she
tis

/'
the two; who, assuming a most haughty air, commanded her to be filent, at which, (he running forwards, and pushing between Lucius and her husband, (when, in an instant, those eyes, which before shot lightning, now let fall a plenteous shower,) blubber’d very dismally, and begged him to pity her, and that poor, pretty, dear, Sweet, helpless baby; and insisted, that though it was no great matter what became of such a wicked man, Such a vile rogue, as her husband, yet it would be the greatest cruelty to ruin her, and So fine a child. So Sweet a wench, a? that she held in her arms. But, alas 1 the judge was deaf to all she couw say; he order’d a servant to turn her out of doors; but she fell on her knees, and, with great earnestness, endeavoured to persuade him to Suffer her to stay,. This favour, at last, was granted, only upon condition of silence; which was no Sooner done, than Clod, Seeming to revive and recover Spirits, from his indignation, cry’d out, I could nola thowt it: shu wud hame into gaol: well. i’ll See who shall Suffer; I ha’ another dow ter, and her mother wud na’ ha’ serv’d me So, Lucius now represented the heinousness of the crime, and insisted upon the penalty :
and (»dering young Trueman to fill up a
bond
  119
bond which he had before Sent for, the farmer Signed it with less reluctance than I could have Imagined, only repeating a curse or two on bis wife, loud enough for her to hear, and crying, i’ll be her fob’ no longer, I ha’ another
rdowter.
The filling up of the bond took up Some time, for our young steward was not yet very .expert at his busmess, and his father was not there to assist him : but the ceremony of Sigii>« ■ing and Sealing was hardly over, when the good odd man entered, introducing an elderly woman, and a very pretty young woman of about Seventeen, whom he led to Lucius Our judge arose, and bow’d, and, at the same instant, farmer Clod cry’d out. My poor dow ter! and young I'rueman dropp’d an ink standish, which he was carrying into his of ifice. clod’s wife gave them all a curse, and, grumbling, left the place, while he feiaed one of the girl’s hands, and throwing his other arm about her neck, gave her a hearty finack crying, I am o’most ruined j but no matter, I steferve it. Will yo’ forgi’ me, wench? Yo are my dowter, and yo stxall be my dowfier, in spite of the devil. Young Trueman had, during this speech, feked her other hand, which Clod had neither power jkn refcdutioii

\
to
i2<5  '
to prevent, and which, with an air of native innocence, she cheerfully resigned to her lover. Her eyes were, in an instant, turned from her father, and fixed, with great softness, on the young marl, who gaz’d on her, with a look of mingled tenderness and rapture.
This, Madam, was a Scene, which, at first, I could not comprehend, and So strange a turn filled me at once with curiosity, and held me in an agreeable sufpense: but it was a curiosity too violent to Suffer me to continue, at a distance, an uninterested fpe<stator. I, therefore, ran downstairs, when old Trueman, with the elderly woman, having joined themselves to Lucius, to whom they were talking, and accidentally fronting the other three, I could not help saying, with a laugh. Well, if after all you are disposed for a country dance,
I hope I may be allowed to make one. They all Smiled, and, after the usual ceremony, of a few bows and curtefies, and your humble Servant, and the like, Lucius addressed himself a gain to Clod.
You have now performed, laid he, the conditions I demanded, nor shall I make any tesse<5lions on what is passed, ssnee this would expose you before your relations. My thoughts
are now taken up with the general happiness
of
  lit
of your whole family. If I insisted So strenuously on your paying the fine. It was only with a view, to Secure Some part of the fortune of a daughter, whom you have negk£led; and by giving the bond to this young rtian, whom you must now look upon as your Son, I return it again into the Same family j Since, as my steward, he does not need this to make him an advantageous match for your daughter.' Here Clod, without stirring a step, stretched out his neck, to stare at Trueman; and seeming, more and more, to recover himself, drew his daughter back a little, crying, A proper mon; hay, wench. Gi’ me yo’r bond; which Trueman doing, he gave it a hearty shake. Saying, God bless yo’ together. I wish it with aw my heart. Shu is a good wench; i’ll say that for her. And then, turning to Lucius, bowed So low, and gave Such a Scrape, that he had like to have fallen upon his face. The young woman blushed, and curtesied; and Lucius having, by this time, found the bond, which he pulled out of his pocket, presented it to Trueman, saying. Here take this,
/
and I wish you all imaginable happiness; while he received it with a look of gratitude and joy. Lucius resumed, I am sensible that what you told me was in confidence: I, th®re vol.li. G sore.
/

122

fore remit of the rigour of my first demand, I return you your counter leafe, and stiall Sell the trees myself; I only desire you to Set the same number of plants in their room. Ay, marry will I (cried he, as he received it) and as many more to boot, and rot me if ever shu make me such a rogue again. Now nothing was heard but joy and congratulations. The young woman’s aunt (for that was the person that came in with her) as she loved her niece, was very liberal of her thanks and acknowledgments; she kissed the young couple, and infissed on providing the wedding dinner, as Soon as they could be asked in due form at church. For, as she was ho friend to licenses, she was resolved that the marriage should not be performed till after this ceremony was corn pleated, which she thought necessary to render it valid. The happy couple were the least tumultuous in their joy, for that was principally expressed, on both Sides, by the eloquent language of the countenance, which. Sufficiently, told us all they could have uttered; and, perhaps, they chose that we should rather see than hear the expressions of their mutual tenderness: : it is more probable, that, wholly taken up with the presence of each other, they never thought of us .at all, and ‘ while

12$
while they were Silent, did not fufpe<5i: that
any in the company could understand a language, which they, doubtless, imagined peculiar to hhemselves. But it was not So with old Clod, who knew no other way of expres sing his joy, than by capering about the hall, blessing the Squire and his good lady, kissing his daughter, and hugging young Trueman. In short, we adjourned into a parlour; when wine, ale, and tea, were called for, which every one partook of as they pleased' ' was the cold sir loin forgot, which, by ancient custom, is a joint devoted to hospitality; for this was placed on a stde board, near the farmer, whole uneasiness having cost him a dinner, he wisely, upon the return of his spirits and his stomach, [did not Suffer it to stand neglected. At last, they all took their leave, but not till our young steward had shown his intended bride her future apartment, which Lucius, in the presence of the aunt, promised should be immediately furnished for their reception.
You See, Madam, that innocence and peace do.not always bless the cottage: vice fojne times finds an entrance under the lowest roof; and care and Sorrow can hover over the brow of humble virtue. With these Sage remarks,
G 2 which
124

which inform you have nothing but what you
knew before, I conclude my letter, having
no more to add, but that I am, and shall ever be.
\
Your ladyship’s
mojl affesfionate friend.
%
Felicia Manly,
P. S. Upon recolle^hon, I think, I ought not to have informed you, that the wicked woman, who makes no inconsiderable character in the above letter, is a stepmother;; Surely you will not do me the injury to suspect that, by inserting it, I would insinuate a reflection upon others, who, with the name, have quite different difpositions, A certain lady, whom you dearly love, and to whom your cousin owes ten thousand obligations, is a glorious exception; ' and I know Some other ladies, besides miss Biddy, who, from a mother in law, have received all the tender in dulgendes, and all the obligations they could reasonably expect from a real parent. If you show your aunt this letter, as I find you have done Some others, don’t let her overlook this
postscript,
LET

-

1^5
LETTER
Dear Madam,
0 U See what a variety of impcrtinen cies, your desire of frequently hearing from me, has forced me to commit; but what elfe can be expe(fied from rural Scenes, which, though the haunt of lovers, are the
most unfruitful of intrigues: for where almost every one atsts from nature, nothing of the marvellous can be expecsted. Yet I shall now open a scene of wonders, that will give you the greatest astonishment.
One day last week, to our no Small Surprise, we received a presting invitation to dine with Mr. Stevens, the Sprightly old gentleman, whose * character you were fb well pleased with, and whom we had not Seen, Since the disgrace of his Superlatively pious lister f Prudilla. acquaintance of so agreeable a companion, made us readily comply with his request. Lucius, therefore, ordered the coach to be immediately got ready, and we fet out soon after.
Our destre of renewing the
G 3
Upon

See Letter IV Letter VIII f Letter XIX j
%
126
Upon our arrival, vve were received by the entieman himself, with his usual affability and freedom; but with less of that humorous gaiety in his look, which indicates the friend, and cheerful companion. After paying us some handsome, tho’ late, compliments on ©ur nuptials, he informed us, that his Sister, who, he confessed, had injured us in his esteem, being now dangeroussy ill of a consumption, dessred to See us, that she might unburtben her mind, as much as possible, by confessing her guilt, and endeavouring to obtain Our pardon; and that, as she was now a wakc, if we pleased, he would introduce us hinsselss We immediately consented, and followed him to her chamber. We found her ieated in aneafy chair, one arm hanging negligently down by the Side, which, by its thinness, Seemed immoderately long. She was worn to a Skeleton; her head leaning back, in a languid posture, discovered a thin, pale, and dejedted countenance, which, the moment she raised it, expressed all the ssgns of inward confusion, horror, and guilt, She fixed her eyes on us. Sighed, and waving her hand, desired us, wdth a weak voice, to sit down by her, which we immediately did; when Mr.
Stevens left us, and, before he shut the door,
affure
■■


127
4
altured his Siller, that he would take care that
nobody should come to interrupt us.
What an object was here! How wretchedly
depraved must that mind be, that could
triumph before an enemy So reduced, So humble,
and So worthy of pity f Lucius could not:
his concern was extremely viiible, and, tbo’ I
never Saw him in a more Sprightly humour.
than he was in the whole morning, it was
now instantly vanished; and his countenance
had an air of Solemn gravity, and companion.
With a tone of great humanity, he alk'd how she did.
She, thanking him, answered, I am
T am ffo
extremely ill. 0, Siri am going
ing to that being, who will not be imposed
upon by false appearances. Oh the horrors of a guilty mind! Oh conscience! conscience!
I have plotted your ruin — I have endeavoured
to destroy your peace — your fortune happiness here — your soul hereafter.
your Then,
wiping her eyes. Oh, I ask your pardon,
Can you forgive me? Can you? — Will you?
This w’as spoke with such a beseeching look,
and uttered with So much carnestnefs, that it
4
would have been barbarous to have kept her any longer in suspense. Lucius, therefore.
immediately reply’d, in that tender tone, which
nature gives to the voice, when the heart is
G 4
128

N
deeply affected with compassion, Yes, Madam, I heartily forgive you; But why this eagerness?? you think me incapable of pity? No, Sir, added she, I know you are not; but alas! you know not what you say 1 — You don’t know how much I have been your enemy — but don’t — don’t withdraw your forgiveness, continued she, looking stedfaftly in his face; and then calling her eyes on the ground, added : It was I that caused your father to be arrested : It was I — I that persuaded his creditors to throw him in a gaol, How! cry’d Lucius, reddening; and then, after a moment’s reflection, resumed with a Sigh; v/ell! this is not a time for reproaches. Reproaches! cry’d she; I deserve them all — I know I deserve them all, and am prepared to receive them. O Madam! I loved Lucius, with a criminal passion, and, under a veil of sanctity, thought to conceal myself from the eyes of the world; but I could not do it from the all piercing eye of heaven— — my plots were discovered, and you were a witness of the shameful, but just, treatment I met with
when all my contrivances to
entle
at your aunt s, break the match betwixt you and this
man were laid open. Your aunt’s reproaches sharpened the sting of my guilty conscience;
your


129
\
your and your coulin’s triumph over me, made my mind boil with rage and Shame, and disappointed love. I returned home, — I contrived ways of revenge, and sought still to destroy your peace. At last, I thought of Mr.' Manly. I knew Some of his creditors, I stewr to them, and, under a pretence of visiting their wives, indulged the malice of this wicked heart. This, at first, was all my view : but Soon, Madam, 1 recollected that your husband had a tender and generous mind : I hoped his duty, and his affe£lion to his father, would be
too strong for his pastion for you -- -- -- -1 hoped
he would relieve him, and I was not deceived : I prepared to let your father know that he was an impostor, that he had greatly lestened his fortune: and, by this means, thpught myself again infallibly certain of breaking the match: but soon I learned thai these hopes were vain: Lucius had himself informed him of the whole affair. — he was fof2tven, and I plunged in fresh despair— — Lucius! I durst not how see your father, — Oh a guilty conscience!! guilty conscience!! — ^ followed crime, till I sinned beyond all hopes of mercy. * Sis an ingenuoirs conlestion however, cry’d Lucius, and I Leartily forgive you.
May God forgive you too. i’ll promise for
G 5
my


my father. I thank you. Said she, and flopp’d, nd then continuing Silent for Some time, she, at last, fixed her eyes on Lucius, and resumed. I have another affair, but I cannot mention it to you. — 1 cannot Speak of it — but, as it is more necessary to be discovered than anything
Here
look at this paper
I have yet Said, I have wrote it down.
read my shame, and then let me Speak to you alone. You will know it time enough, Madam. 1 can Scarcely think of it before you, and must, therefore, beg of you to retire.
You won’t wonder. Madam, that I was very much Surprised at this proposal, which appeared the more extraordinary, by her manner of introducing it. What could I think? It had an odd appearance. Lucius seemed thoroughly sensible of this, and, therefore, endeavoured to detain me. This is very strange, cried he: What concern can I have of any Secret affiir of yours, which my Felicia may not be acquainted with? Or what can that be, which is fit only for me, and not for her to know? Dear Madam, dear Sir, oblige me, cried she, with anearneftness that pleaded more than her words: surely this request cannot be hard for you to grant! Lucius made
ao answer, but, receiving the paper, went to
the
\
  13 r
the window to read it. As she Sat with her back to the light, he might do it as Safely here as in another room, without railing her blushes, by the disorder of his looks; and, perhaps, her chair was Set in this manner on purpose. Meanwhile I arose, and walking out of the room, pulled the door after me, which I had hardly done, when I heard Lucius stamp, and cry out, I a child by you. Madam, stis false. Tisa notorious lye. And then, running to the door, desired me to come in, with a look that showed him in a most violent passion. It stems, added he, that this important affair, so improper for you to hear, is what you have an immediate concern in; she has the impudence to say here — but read it yourfels What a vile Scandalous lye -- 1 a child by her!
As I was but just oit the outside of the
door when he called me, I immediately re
» *
5 and, being much less disturbed than he, had the precaution to shut it, as I entered the room. I mult confess that I was in a very queer sttuation of mind : I was far from be ing easy. But it is impossible for me to give YOU any idea of lucius’s behaviour: he stamped, he stared, his colour changed from a deep starlet, to a livid paleness;; then looking towards the chair, with rage and contempt
O & strongly
i  "
strongly painted in his countenance, Is this your repentance? cried he, wicked and abandoned wretch! — In Such a condition too I — Your affectation of modesty! — my wife must
not know it -- -- you can’t speak of it before
tier I Why So warm, my dear? replied I, with a Smile : if there is nothing in it, it can only Serve to increase our detestation of a wretch, that So near her death, could be guilty of So vile a stander. cried he, with a Snappish
hastinefs: It is an absolute lye — she is the last woman that I would be guilty of such an affair with — such an antidote to desire !- — I should be as much ashamed of my taste as of the crime.
WE were now alarmed by an affair of a very different kind; for Prudilla, who had heard every word, unable to Support the shock of being treated in so Severe a manner, at this instant, fainted away, and fell out of her chair, and we beheld a pale, and almost
being, lie stretched out on the hearth, in a manner that called for immediate relief. To what ft ange revoluti' ns is the human mind subject?? all our indignation, not all the fury of passion, could prevent our running immediately to her assistance, and giving her [that Succour that her cafe required, Lucius
railed

13s
railed her head from under the grate, where Ihe was in danger of being burnt, and, with niy allistance, lifted her into her chair, and there held her, whilst I ran to call her brother. He came; but it was near half an hour before we brought her to herself. At last, she opened her eyes, and her brother forced her to drink a glass of wine and hartshorn; but she no sooner recovered her Spirits, than she burst into tears; nor could she utter anything but Sighs, for a considerable time, endeavouring all the while to conceal her blushes, by covering her face. At last, she desired her brother to leave us, and, when he was gone, not a word was Spoke for near two minutes more. For she was So weak, that Lucius, dreading Some ill consequence might again attend his not being able to master his temper, resolved to let her begin first; and to wait, with patience, till he could hear what she had to say, in vindication of this notorious iye, as he called it. This he let me know, as Soon as Mr. Stevens left the room; by writing his resolution on a piece of paper, which he easily did, as there was a pen and ink upon the table, which stood close at his elbow. I began to be tired of this Suspense, when she began, with a deep Sigh : Now you know my
shame;
m ^ *
jj4
shame j but I did not think I Should be treated
in this manner.
Oh you are very cruel, you
Is
y
might have read the paper out. — is it not false? cry’d Lucius; had you ever a child by me? — Pray let me go on. Said she, you ought, indeed, to have read the paper out, before you
fell into Such a passion- -- -- not I read
one lye at the beginning? interrupted he again; to whatpurpose should I read on to find more? Hear me, hear me, rejoin’d she, I take the shame and guilt upon myself, why should you not then hear me? You lay at our house, about two years ago, twice you lay here j if you remember, it rained, and you could not go home. Oh! how shall I tell the rest? You was waked by a woman in your bed, Lucius blushed, and looked at me, and'iihme^ diately replied, I acknowledge it. Madam; but proceed. I left you while you were asleep— — was gone before it was light, and the lirll time you lay here, you found our chambermaid’s handkerchief lying by the Side of the bed, which, the next morning, she owned; The, odiousness of my crime made me glad to conceal it; I blushed at my own wickedness,, to preserve my character.. the handl kerchief,
I own
  135
I OWN it all. Madam, cried Lucius; and I sincerely beg your pardon. Indeed, I ought not to have been So warm: but I beg you would forgive a language, which, I acknowledge, did not become me. My suspicion fell where you intended it should; but how barbarous, how ungenerous, was it in you, to fully the character of an innocent creature, by laying your guilt to her charge! If that be So great a fault, returned she, I have much to answer for: Oh I am a guilty creature! but the shame I then felt for my faults, though it prompted me to do all I could to hide them, though it made me blush in private, and almost hate myself, was nothing to the horror I now feel. Pray, Madam, Said I, proceed with your story, I long to hear what is become of the child, Lucius, Madam, may remember, continued she, that I went to London, about four months after the last time he lay at our house; there, instead of vistting my friends, I lived very retired, and, pretending that my husband was gone abroad, was well respected,
and, at last, brought to bed of a fine girl. Af
*
my return home, I Sent for it into the country, and it is now at Clifton, where it pastes for the child of a poor woman, whom
I had taken a fancy to, and resolved to keep
out
' '
t
out of charity. In that paper is a dire£ston where to find it, and in that paper toonyou will See that I have left this living witness of
niy shame Seven thousand pounds, which is all my fortune; and if she dies, it is to be equally divided between you and my brother : for you are the person I love dearest, and have most injured.' But my brother will show you my will; he has consented to everything, and, therefore, I have chosen him and you for my executors. — But 1 aim quite Spent. — I hope I shall see you after dinner. — ‘this we promised, and retired.
I don’t know. Madam, whether I can vindicate to myselst my thus lay ing open a Secret affair, that refie£ls so much upon the character of my dear Lucius, How triumphantly you cry out, O the man of immaculate virtue, the modest, the Sober, the religious Lucius! — in bed with a Superannuated old maid — mighty pretty, who could have thought it? But, however you exclaim, 1 know you w 11 be pleased, to find him a little lower in your esteem; or elfe what is become of all your
pretty hints, “that he was too good to be
%
“married — that you should not like a husband so extremely periedl -- -- and that yo
thought it necessary that a man, who was to
“be
* <

V,
^   137
•* be your companion for life, should have “Some faults, that he might be better able to “excuse yours.” — Think of this, and cease your exclamations. As to prudilla’s conduct, it is vaiily more inexcusable: : I consider her as an humble penitent, and, therefore, shall not expatiate on her crimes. I have been melted by her tears; I have heartily forgiven her, and this has made me omit several Speeches, which had I inserted, though they might have kept up the enthusiastic part of her character, would have weakened your pity, by making her appear ridiculous.
I HAVE the honour to be, Madam,
Your ladyship’s
I
mofi Jtncere,
and moji affectionate Friend.,
Felicia Manly.
LETTER XXXVI
Dear Madam,
W E had staid So long with Prudilla, that,
when we went down, we found the dinner almost Spoiled; for Mr. Stevens, imagining
138 Felicia to charlofte*
gining that this might be the last time of our, feeing her alive, was not willing to interrupt us, being very fensible that we had affairs upon our hands of much greater moment.
The cloth was no Sooner taken away, than Mr. Stevens, having lighted his pipe, addressed himself to Lucius, and told him, that his Sister had dessred him to show him the will, before it was Sealed up. You know, already, I suppose, Said he, that you and I are appointed her executors, and I don’t doubt but she has told you in what manner she has dispofed of her fortune. Tell me now, honestly, don’t you think my Sister out of her Senses?? perhaps, may biass me, but you are an unprejudiced person: : let me know what you think of her leaving Seven thousand pounds to a stranger. Had she left it to a female friend, to you, - or any other man of merit, I should not have cared, I would not have troubled myself at its going out of the family; but to leave it to a little brat, that can but just go alone — Pox! it’s enough to make one mad. Here he began to puff, as if he had a mind to smother us, and, in an instant, ..we were surrounded with acloudof smoke. Lucius seemed extremely confounded; when, to
give him time to think of a proper answer, I
replied.
Ffligia to Charlotte.
139
'replied. She has taken a fancy to the child, I suppose;; it may belong to Somebody very dear to her. A fancy. Madam, cried he, it is a very odd fancy, that she who never in her life could endure children, should, at these years, t&ke Such a fancy to one, as to leave it all she is worth. I, very bluntly, told her So, and, as I resused to have anything to do in this affair, without better reasons than she was pleased to yield me, she referred me to you, to give me fatisfa£fion. That I can easily do, Said Lucius; you are her brother, and I have a right to know the whole affair, which I, though most concerned, was ignorant of, till this morning : suppose the child should be her own. Why ay, cry’d the old man, after a short Silence, and then deliberately, pouring out a mighty cloud, which he had been colledling from the time Lucius began to Speak — there is Something in that, indeed : but how could she, who is So cursed modest, that she could not mention it to her own brother, tell it you? Who should she tell it to, but to the child’s father. Said I? The child’s father! he rejoined, holding his pipe in his hand and staring, with a look of the utmost astonishment; what Lucius the child’s father! he! the modest Lucius! my young philosopher!
140  '
pher! he make a whore of my Sister! Do you know, young man, added he, what you de serve, for doing our family this honour? Suppose I should order my fellows to cool your courage in the horfe pond, should not I Serve you right? Hay, tell me that, you young dog? Could you Sind no body, but my Sister, to make a whore of? A woman old enough to be your mother, ye little whelp 1 So you must come here preaching your damned nonfenfc, about virtue, and honour, and the devil knows what; and I, like an old fool, must Sit listening and hugging you to my bosom, while you forsooth, was only waiting for an opportunity to debauch my Sister. Flere he started up, crying, the horfe pond! Ay, and it shall be the horfe pond, if it cost me a thousand pounds. By the lord Harry, i’ll make a sous’d mackerel of him.
Lucius, who, at first, sat with a kind of pusillanimous shame, as perhaps, imagining, that as Mr. Stevens thought him the ago
o
grestbr, he had an undoubted right to complain; now started from his chair, and stepping between him and the door, locked it, and put the key in his pocket; then turning hastily round, and clapping his hand' to his
Sword, which he drew half out of the scabbard.

  141
bard, he cried. Hold, Sir, I shall take upon me to Secure the door; you must not go out without my leave; how far I have injured either you or your Sister, she may, if she pleases, inform you; for I think it beneath me to palliate any fault of mine, by laying it upon her. This was Spoke in a resolute tone; but the old man, not Seeming to mind what he Said, having his whole thoughts taken up with his pos ture, cried out. There is a young philosopher!! pretty fellow to make me a prisoner in my own house;; then casting his eyes on the glittering steel. Well done, Don John; There is a dog for you now I He has lain with the Sister, and now would murder the brother! A fine philosopher!! — I won’t draw — i’ll ha’ none of your cold iron in my guts ~l’d
now
see both you and lister at old Nick first — Then wheeling upon his heel, he added, You shall as soon roast as Spit me.
The moment Lucius ran to the door, I flew to the window, and throwing open the fash, call’d Robin and Johnbut hearing the old man declare his aversion to cold iron, 1 drew in my hand, and was going to shut the window, when he came to me, and putting out his head first threw away his pipe, and
then called out Sam and Harry; but we both
called
142 Felicia to cnarlottei^
called in vain; for, as we found afterwards, they were all drinking together in the cellar, with the butler. I was, all this while, fretting, trembling, and blaming myself, as the cause of all this disturbance, by the imprudent manner in which I had discovered the affair; and was the more uneasy, as I thought Lu
•c if*: .' _
cius had sufficient reason to be offended : and this restedtion was so painful, that stupid with vexation, for Some time I had not the power of contriving any probable means of setting all right again. At last, I recollected the paper which Prudilla had given to Lucius, and he to me j and, as the old man was still leaning on my shoulder, and calling for his servants, I destred him to be pacified, and told'him that, on condition he would sit down and be ealy, I would convince him that Mr. Manly was much less to blame than he imagined. Mr. Stevens, finding that it was to no purpose to cxpedl any astiltance from his servants, readily complied; and, feating himself in the window, while Lucius took a chair next the door, I gave him the paper, saying. Here, Sir, is a short account of the whole affair, written by her own hand. He took it, and mumbling to himfelniittered now and then an articulate sound rnaking his remarks to himself as he
went
/
'S
Fslicia to Charlotte.
HS
went on Blujhes — die with Shame— — then raising his voice. Be surprised to hear that you
have had a child by me -- -- Be furprised to hear
it! cry’d he. What the duce I did he get her
with child in his sleep 1 remember — ajleep
Ay, it must be So. -- -- Here he burst out a
laughing, crying. Well, this is very extraordinary! -- -- Get a child in his steep! — — .No,
that can’t be it neither; for she says, he remem^ hefd it, Well, let’s see, O I have it; a w0 “man came to bed to him in his Jleep~ — hy, that may be j but she did not get him with child, I hope — Early in the morning — dark — The duoc! What a rare modest Sister I have got I Well, it can’t be help’d. Why, now I ought, like an afs, to alk his pardon. Faith, I should not have wonder’d if he had Swore a rape against her
vil!
pretty a girl as any in the parish.
Here, tearing the paper, he went to Lucius, crying, at every step, I beg your pardon, I beg your pardon, with all my heart. Odfo, what a racket have I been making in vindication of the honour of my Sister, when her honour is not worth a button!
They now shook hands, and, in a few minutes, were as good friends as if nothing had
happened.
— She handkerchief — ‘O the sty de
and folie was to fufpe£t Jenny Law, as
\
V
144
happened, Prudilla had dined in her chamber, and afterwards laid down for about an hour; and then Sent to inform us, that she should be glad of our company. She now look’d much better than when we entered the room before; notwithstanding her having. Since that time. suffer’d a very great expense f Spirits. This might be occasioned by her having now no more painful Secrets to dif close. Her countenance was tolerably Serene; and, tho’ she could not look upon us without confuston, it was a confuston unmix’d with that ghastly horror which before gave an additional wannefs to her discoloured cheeks and lips.
room; and, as she took the same seat, we took ours. After inquiring how she^did, and particularly, whether she had receive any hurt from her fall from the chair, which she af sured us she had not, she began :
I HAVE now discovered my shame to you both; and, whatever you think of me, I desire you would not, when I am gone, expose me amongst my friends. I have now little elfe to do, but to prepare for that other world, to which I am hastening. Death is a dreadful stroke, but I must go through it. It is guilt, it is guilt that makes it terrible. — I am
very
She was riling as we entered the

h5
very loth to die. — It will be your duty. Sir, to take care of this child. — I am very sensible, that the dear infant has no right to any part of the fortune you obtained by your marriage with this lady, and therefore I give her
— — — To speak my mind freely, it is
mine.
Jt
with great uneasinefs that I Support the thought of leaving her to Such an atheist as you. My religious principles are very different from yours; or, rather, I question whether you have any religion at all. However, you are a moral man; and if mere morality would Save you, you bid fairer than most others for happiness. The morality of the best is imper feisl:; and, therefore, not fit to justify us in the sight of God. — But, alas! why do I talk of morality! I that build all my hopes on your doing justice to my child, in giving her, if not religious, at least, virtuous principles, drawn from this morality! I, who have So heinousty •finned, that I hardly durst hope for mercy.
I, that have abused all the good sense that
_ _ ^
God has given me, and behaved like one that had never tasted of the sweetness of his grace! Oh! I feel the corruptnefs of my owm heart. I was Surely born in sin, and in iniquity did my mother conceive me. I am sensible tli^t my own righteousnefs is but as filthy rags. vol, II; H very

/■
146 f'ej.iicia TO gfrarlottli.
4-
It wasjiow imposslblesor me, Madai^ t forbear Smiling. I .could not help .giving my assent to thesedaft words, and saying, to my felfi that I .believed So too. Lucius kept his
Countenance pretty well: he heard himself loaded with abundance of religious abuse, without the least discomposure in his look: h shook his head, listened .still with pity in hia eyes, aqd never once attempted; to interrupt her. After a good deal more to the same purpose, she let us know that she had had a pious education, and a very early experimental sense of religion. That, as she was converted betimes, as she thought then, though now she doubted it, she had always a great abhorrence, of vice; but grew proud of her religious attainments; and this, added to a temper natu’ rally peevish, made her censorious. At last she loved Lucius j she struggled against hgr weakness;; represented to herself the difference of their age, and the little probability, that he would marry a woman twenty. years olddr than himself; however, she strove to al
j ^ ^
him by her behaviour; but it was ail 19 vain : she then chang’d her condudf, her paf fipn became criminal; and, after a struggle between that and her conscience, flattered herself,
that, as she had Such proof of
heii^
rkiicia
»47
tf* • *
f
fk*
r -*
impossible she
r ^ — t -* ••
i^ould ever 'be a caft ^away; and, confiding in this, she resdlved to give way to seer passion : she then drank in iniquity like water; and going n, from one crime to another, sinned beyond all hopes of mercy. Poor Lucius was the cause of allr had she never known him, she might have still been virtuous -: but love made her commit what her conscience condemn’d. — — — She could not bear her owa
t
tefledlions; she, therefore, endeavour’d to conceal her aflions from the light, from herself, from him, from the world.
This, Madam, is the Substance of a very
dong difeourfe, of whkh I was heartily weary nor should I trouble you with it, if it did not
'■ t i ^ ' ■'s ' ^ ^
Seem necessary to give you a portrait of her
- '4 »
mindi'and to let you see how far even religion, when rais’d upon falle principles, had aa
#
influence in corrupting her heart. It was a gloomy System, collected from abstrufe pas > Scripture, in opposition to the plaineltj \yith ahfurdity, contradi^ion, and blasphemy; contrary to ^^ry sentiment we caii of the Deity, asha^wife and good being, and to the plainest didlates of unprejudiced reason.
sir
r %


4
when
Lucius did not chuse to tnake any answer to, this, fine harangue, which she did not conclude without giving him Some exhortations fb repentance : and, indeed, she had drawn it out to Such a length, and her Spirits were so exhausted, .that (he was obliged, immediately after, to lie down.: we therefore topk our leave, promistng to see, her again in two or three days time. We drank tea with Mr. Stevens, who behaved in the most friendly, manner. The will was read, and he had now no ob jerstion to being, his fister’s executor.
We had Scarcely drove from the door, I observed that Lucius appeared extremely thoughtful. We were now free from company, and perhaps he might dread lest I should take hold of this first opportunity, to make him Some reproaches : but I was re solved to disappoint him., He "watched my looks; he, eyed me very attentively frorn time to time, and seemed desirous of div ining rny thoughts, while, with a modest diffidence in his countenance, he seemed to wait till I began the disagreeable subject. I believe we had been full five minutes.in the coach with out Speaking a word to each other : at last, I
. • j
began with asking him, what were his thoughts of Prudilja, 1 hardly know, (aid he, what t
think
r f icta TO Char LOTTE.
ro
stink of her; fly has confessed herself guilty 'of'very black crimes. Could I have aeon 'lentcd to cdiiceal my father’s misfortunes, I * had been justly punished. 1 must have been ruined. What wouldvour father have thought of me? It is very true, said I, it was an infernal felleme; the very idea of it makes me tremble. Ft was happy for me, that your generous Sentiments, which Wduld not faster yoti to conceal it, broke all her meafures. But the child — ''added I, smiling ‘ why I am made a mother, at a time when I least thought of it. But did your suspicions fall where she intended they' should? Yes, ' my dear; said lie,. % * * -
giving me a rhost astersti’onate look, that seem’d to thank me for treating him Co gently; I return’d the handkerchief, which the young woman received, Indeed, without a blush; this I perfe£lly remember. I had never taken notice of her before'; and metnought she had, with a very agreeable person, an innocence and modesty in her behaviour, which I could not tell how to reconcile with the character' ' a lascivious wanton: I resteffed on what Ishad donc; and reshshon brought a number " ■ of ideas to my mind, that were by no means
However, I had'yhe honest satis'
'• '
H 3
^5® Felicia to chartottr.
taaion or thininng that 1 was not her eoerttf^ ter; and this thought blunted the iharpnds of jeelf reproach. I looked upon her ruin as at ost irrepaiabk; and painted to myself, in the strongest colours, the unhappy sttuation of a girl, abandoned to the indu^ence of disgraceful appetites, lost to all sense of real virtue and honour, and in the direct road to infamy and
I pitied her, and resolved to endeavour, at least, to reclaim her. J found her f>ne day alone, and. Seizing the opportunity, I began a lecture on incontinency — O hideous I interrupted IA pretty gentleman to preach to a gill on that fubjedi: !■ — the Supposed parti
_
ner in her guilt too! -- why, I wonder how you could have the confidence to open your mouth about it. — The most improper person 1 — — — No, my dear, returned Lucius, with a Smile, I must differ from you; for supposing her the person, I can’t help, even now, thinking myself the most proper man in the world. However, it was with much difficulty, that I brought myself to form the resolution, and with
more still, that I put^it in pra<5hhe. I thought it my duty, in a peculiar manner, and encouraged myself with the pleasing prospect of Saving a very agreeable girl from ruin. But,
when I had this opportunity, I knew not how
lo
c. *.
Feeicta ta Charlotte.

to begin, I was ashamed of appearing more virtuous than her, and reproaching her for an a^iioh, which she, I imagin’d, thought I ought rather to thank her for. These last reflections held me for Some tinre Silent but, at last, I boldly began; wish observing, that a girl. So agreeable in her person, and, to outward appearance. So modest and prudent, seemed formed by nature for happiness: and that it was a pity, that, with So many perfections, she should destroy ^ her hopes of etr jbying she pleasures of an innocent love, all her profpe<sts of a happy marriage; • lose the eternal rewards of heaven, and inconsiderately plunge herself in ruin and infamy. She interrupted me, by telling me, she was surprised to hear me talk in this manner, and wonder’d what I would be at. I them began to tell her shat I was a partner in her guilt; and that, tho’ I had shot the resolution to withstand the temptation, yet my conscience reproached me for what I had done; and I fmcerely repented of my folly : let; me persuade you, said I She stared; — she believed I was mad : — she
lew out of the room, and I fool.
■look’d like k
I BELIEVE Sby replied J, bursting into a
, Poor girl! I pity ster.

I only wish
Prudill%.
152
Felicia to Charlotti, '
Pfudilla had overheard you. But, I hope, the natural innocence of her behaviour cured this groundless suspicion. In a great measure it did, returned he : notwithstanding it was reasonable to suppose that a girl, who took Such precaution as to come and go away in the dark, and who, all the time she was with me, never Spoke louder than a whisper, would
Itrenuoufly deny a Sadi, which she took Such
• • • •
pains to conceal: I was not, therefore, per
Scdtly Satisfied.
But I can’t help think
r' i
jug, now I know her innocent, in how ridiculous a light I must then appear to her, 'i'vvo or three months after I lay there again j 1 took the precaution to lock my door, but I had not been an hour in bed, when I met with the Same temptation, which, in Spite of all my previous resolutions, again proved too strong for me. Thus, perfecily convinced of my own weakness, I resolved never to lie another night in the same house. But whenever I went there, I took particular notice of the young woman’s complexion, as well as of her shape : and in Six or eight month’s time,
observing no marks of her pregnancy, I grew
perfecily easy wfith respedt to her, and began to blame myself for my unjust suspicions; though I was still, at a lost where to fix them.
Indeed.

I
^ nd J
generous and humane Sentiment!
Indeed, my dear, continued he, 1 can’t help thinking Prudilla committed a greater crime,
, in thus endeavouring to ruin the reputation of a modest girl, by loading her with all tyre infamy of her own guilt, than in the very actions that gave occasion to it. How depraved must have been her mind! How lost to every
-- -- ^^but
’fis happy for her, that she has bad a time to Goiredt the irregularities of her passions. gen fori^^ufiiefs, inhumanity, and theciddulgenee of evefy Selfish passion, are the natural confe qyences of her sentiments of religion; a religion, which, lefpedling only God, regards every duty to' man as low and contemptible: but So deeply are the kind affeduons imprinted on the heart; so lovely does virtue, humanity, and generosity appear to all mankind; that, however the minds of individuals are warped by felfish views, they cannot help Secretly approving this temper in others; and even those of her Sentiments, however contemptibly they Speak of it; generally show by their actions, that they have the Same obligations to nature, the Same impulses to goodness, with the rest of mankind; So that, however pernicious their religious Sentiments may appear, .with lespedt to their tendency, it very rarely happens that
H 5
they,
/
feitrcm TO c»artottt7.
they have really Such unhappy, Such hcirridi
fffe£ls, '.
But I will trouble you no longer. Madam,, with the rcpetion of a eonverfation,. whtgh begins to grow but little interesting. you; will, I fancy, readily believe that I am now
weary; for this is as true as
✓
I
'i
Your ladyship’s
son/lant. friend
FEI^ICIA, MAHD1^
L E T T E R

O U find, Madam, by my two last
ters, that I am arrived at the ur^xpe<st> ed honour of being a step^ mother.: but whether
I shall behave in Such a.manner as to Support my nev? dignity, wish any degree of applause to myself, is a eircumstance that 1 cannot yet be Sure of. However, of this I am; certain, that I was never in my life half so angry as I am now at our writers^of plays, novels, and romances,, for continually drawing a stepmother as a monster in nature; and fa, terrible a. creature, jjhat one would be apt to
J
conceive'
Felicia to ciiarlotte.
I
♦oiigeive that she had not one feature, that, in the least, resembled any part of a human being. And, indeed, in all my reading, which, in this way, is pretty extensive, I can hardly tecoile(st above one or two instances, in which this inexorable tyrant had the least advantage above a tiger, a wolf, or a crocodile; That a bad woman should make a bad wife,
V
and a worse stepmother, is not to be wondered at; especially, if covetousness, pride, ill nature, and an extraordinary fondness for her own children, centre in the same breast! But while there are Such persons in the world as your ever honoured aunt, it^must be convinced,;

that an empty name can never change the
n of the heart, and turn the most
mild, the tenderest and rhost generous minds into savage cruelty. By her example; Madam, < Idntend to regulate my conduct; and while I strive to imitate So fine a model, I must be a wretched copiest, indeed, if I myself ’am not’ tolerably perfevsl,
Lucius seems extremely pleased at my manner of treatitig him, and a thou Sand times
4
has he already thanked me, by his looks, and the most engaging exprelbons ot* tenderness. Two days after this day of wonders, we went
co pay another visit to Prudilla. I was deli st - sir (JUS'
15$

Sirous of feeing the child, and easily imagined,
that though Lucius was perfectly Silent on this
head, he could not avoid being much more
so, though his fear of offending me might
make him conceal it. As Mr. Stevens had
torn the paper, which contained a detail of
his sifter’s guilt, we had lost the diredfion
where to find the little creature, whom I now
began to confider as one of the family. I,
*
therefore, the evening before, proposed his sending a Servant, with a letter, to give them notice when we intended to see them, and to desire that the infant might be brought to their house, Lucius readily embraced this proposal, and with a look, that Seemed to speak much more than he expressed. Seized hold of my hand, and thanked me for the care I took.
to anticipate his desires.
The next morning we Set out prettly early; and, upon our arrival, Mr. Stevens, handing me out of the coach, conducted us in, when he must needs Salute me. under the character of his sister, not in law. Said he, but as

gainst law; however, you are my Sister, and you hall be my Sister, I hope, atsded he, yoa have heartily forgiven the penitent above stairs; if ydu have, you must let us See it, by taking care of her child; and, by this means.

 ' 157
you will greatly oblige, not only me, your brother, anjl the bantling’s uncle and guardian, but, our good friend, my young philosopher there, the baby’s papa, whom, let me tell you, it is your duty to oblige,
O, Sir, Said I, I will not dispute with you about a name. If you can prove that you are any way related to me, I shall certainly esteem it an honour. As to the child, I can make no promises, I assure you : I can only Say, that I will do my endeavour, at least; and, though not from dull duty, I shall, from affection, a much more engaging motive, strive to contribute to the fatisfacfiion of one, who is nearer than a brother.
You are very good. Madam, replied he. Smiling; but, as to the honour of being related to me, (in this manner I mean) I must confess that it is but very little. The poor brat, it must be acknowledged, is bale born; and, therefore, you are no more its mother in law, than I am your brother-in-law: I mean, by the law of the land. By the laws of nature and reason, indeed, you are much more nearly related; for, as this gentleman’s wise, you are as much the mother of this child, as if it had been born in marriage: for
CD ■
his marriage, with my Sister, would not shake
the
\

1.5^ ■'
th€ child imore his than it is; ati prefenti and' consequently, your d uty is,. in both cafes, the;
I AM quite of your: mindv Sir; .Said but :
where is this little cr^iture? methinks I long.' to be acquainted with my new charge. We shall have the young flut here by and by, replied he; and then added gravely. But what' is the matter with Lucius? See how thoughtful he looks — why, I profess, he has fall the. fether in his face.it is vwritten on his fore] ] He has one child now, which, three days ago, I dare say he never So much as dreamed of and, if I guess right, in three
Dr So he will have another. Is it not'
months or So he will have another, true, Madam? No wonder then that he has
the look of a. patriarch he has not lost his Speech!
But, I hope.

No, no, Sirj Said Lucius,. with a smile j I; have been listening very attentively to you,. and, at the Same time, admiring the goodness ■ a. lady that derives fresh charms from my. guilt and folly. Nay, nay, cried he, there is no wonder that you should not find an opportunity to put in a Single word, when a talkative old fellow, and a very fine lady, seem resolved to have all the difcourse to themselves: :; this is the cafe, you are too wise not to'
know w,
Know, that the roost complailknt imiig the husband can do, is not to interrupt them But is she So very good? why then, I Suppose.. have not had So much as a curtain le^ure on this affair?. Far from it, I affure you, replied Lucius. Then she is a dear; Sweet; little angel, cried she old man; ay, and a god dess too; and — an — an ^i dont know whatn to call her; I can’t think of a name half good enought I could almost findin my heart, to.
lavish a kifs from her for it: only I am afraid shat it will be a little unreasonable that both should Suffer a rape from our family. Let: me tell you. Madam, that you are happy, in having an opportunity to show a greatness of mind, that must for ever endear you to a mafl,. of sense But whatever you are in reality,, you are not to appear to the world in the character
of a stepmother;; infant must be. brought up as the child of a^deceafed friend,, relation or So; : or, if Lucius will consent to it,, let her be put under the care of his mother and Marilla. This, Madam, will eale you of a considerable part of she care of your office, and, at the Same time, you will have an opportunity of feeing her as often as you please,.
io felicia' xp Chartotte.'
“^
/ Lucius readily approved of this motioir,. and I as readily agreeing to it,, it. was resolved, that Sophronia, lucius’s mother, should be .informed, by Mr. tevens, of the whole affair. This being immediately determined, lie resumed, There are many advantages which will attend your concealing the truth from. the world; bestdes the ssngle consideration of the reputation of the two families. You would, in Some sense, be regarded by the world as a stepmother Land though they wouldj doubt less, be ready to make Some allowance in aeon -- stderation of the hut’s being bafe born; yet the very name itself is generally here, in the country, the cause of discontent, and frequent un^ easinefs. It is an unthankful office. Everybody takes pains to render her Sufpeded by the litde brats; they, without thought, are industrious to weaken her authority, by fowdng, in their unthinking minds, the Seeds of jealouff, distrust, and a Spirit of Gontradidtion. And let her be ever So good, let her have ever such an affection for the children, the stiuhtest correction, the most gentle reproof, is aggravated into the most insupportable tyranny; every old woman in the parish bemoans their hard fate, and let the urchins be guilty of ever So great a rcime, they can’t whimper, but the Simple,,
well-meaning neighbours cry out, Ah, poor
souls,.


1^1
souls, if their own mother was alive, they
would not be ferv’d so. The children easily
\
imbibe these bad influences, and are inadvertently taught to hate a person, who, perhaps, strives to love them; a woman, who, from the
time of her marriage, filled with a just sense of her duty, may' have resolved to do them all the justice in her power, and to treat them with all
9
possible lenity. Her cafe is very hard : all her endeavours to please are fruitlefi : a bad con strudlion is putupon her kindest atfiions: she strives in vain; is unthanked j and, perhaps, repaid with ingratitude. And this, Madam, I have. Sometimes, known to be the cafe of by far the best woman in the neighbourhood.
Really, Sir, Said I, you give a very Shocking account of the uncomfortable state ol being a mother in jaw; enough to frighten any Moman from the thoughts of marrying aman vrho has children : but, however, if she has the goodncss to persevere in her kindness, she must Surely win them over at last; their prejudices must vanish; and, if Mr. prior’s remark be true, that
Malice vanquijjdheightem virtue's praise, she will then have the satisfa£l: ion of a glorious
revenge
having made this nowe conquest,
she will force them to do justice to her
merit.

V
\

merit, and, in Spite of thenifelves, to give het their love, their esteem, and theit gratitude. What are all the Submistions in the world to this? to see their cheeks glow with affe£lion,. ftt the Same time that they, with an honest blush, own their error : this is not only heaping coals of fire on their heads, but on theit hearts too.
Th IS is very true, Said Lucius, Smiling; giving me a look of approbation; but few tempers can hold out against ill treatment ^ ingratitude may Sometimes four, the best minds,;.

tri

it too easily prompts them to make a return in kind:, and when this is the cafe, both the lady and the children' are worthy of pity.
We now went upstairs, where we found Prudilla in, a much weaker condition than when we were here before: but we had hardly taken our Seats, when we heard Mr. Stevens talking to. a woman at the chamber door,, and having desired her to .step down into the pantry to refreshherfelf, came in with axhil<|l his arms. Lucius and' b arose our? eyes


Vrere fixed: on the infant, which, finiling, held! out its little arms tome : but Mr. Stevens, nott ofaferving this, carried it to Prudilla, who, giving a deep sigh, and looking upon it with eyes dimming with affection.. to kifs it : :
V;
Telicia to Charlott®. 1$^
but the child turned away, and, perhapsj» frighted at her ghastly appearance, still struggled to come at me; which (he immediately did. the nk>ment she was Set down at her mam ina’s knee.
THIS little incident, trifling as it was, gave me a good deal of pleasure. I sat down, and placing her on my lap, gave her a kifs : she fondled me, and, with an innocent Smile, stroked my face, for half a minute, saying. Ah, poor! then gigled, and hid her pretty hand in my bosom, I could not help being fond of the dear creature. I killed her several times, without even knowing why I did it; it was giving way to an imptilfe, which I could not resist. I constdered her as a part df my dear Lucius: I endeavoured to trace hi her face some of his well known features. I cast my eyes on him that I might be able txy form a more accurate judgement of the refent blance; > when I cotild not help observing, that, wish a look of peculiar pleasure, ha Seemed to watch all my a^lions, while, at the slime time, his countenance was overlpread with a softness, that methought expre^d paternal affection Working in his heart. While. I was thus engaged in endeavburhig to trace uti and, t by the help of fancy to prbve a

•r
164
dikeness between the lineaments of a face that' ’
* v * ' ^
'olaccd before rrie, and those irr miriiaturfe'
'• - > * -
'placed dear my bofoni, my glances frequently 'stiet• Ws and the fatisfa£iion, and delight,
'that appeared in them, gave an additional applause
to that which arose from the indul gence of fhefe fooleries. Lucius, notwith* ^standing this visible fati&fadsto'n, ' still continued
• r • • » "t
ffilent, aikstfeemcd at a dost how to behave; .though lb many expreffibns of my tenderness dmight well bd supposed to authorise him : and T was just going to chide him for it, when ’frudilla, with a Sigh, cry’d, in a very peevistl ' and jealous tone; that she thought it'very hard sthat she might not?havo the pleasure of kissing; her own child; : that she Saw plainly I should
4
it; and that it was an odd way of sheiv ing my' kindnest, to take her from a person that must be supposed to love her better than I or any bo elfe could do. Lucius coloured,.
. and, giving her a look of indignation, was ■goingsto speak, when Mr.; Stevens began; rfor he being let into the important secret, was ■ now fuffered to continue m the room. What - do you mean, stster, laid he, in a hasty severe t manner; would you not have the lady love the child? If you are so jealous that no body i^must be fond of her but yourself, e’en take'

■psucia TO gha5.«.otte.
C
flier with you. A good mother would think herself very happy, in leaving it to the, care of a person, who, is disposed to, be fond of it. A good mother I returned (he:, crying : you are,, always reproaching me with my guilt: why • must I be told of it? — why must I be up • with being a mother? But yet it is.
too true — to my shame it is — would to, God
I had never been a mother !r — would to God 1 had never deserved to be a mother! See There now, cried Mr. Stevens, I profess thete Js no Such thing as Speaking to her: Ireproach you! — Well, ..but it’s, no, m; attee, and then addressing himself to me. Dear Madam, said he, excuse this treatment: my sister’s illnels. makes her so peevish, that she hardly knows what she fays: be So good as to Jet. me take ■ the child.
Lucius and I stared j and it was riot without Some struggles, that I stifled my resentment.
I was two or three times going to break, out, and to, interrupt thern; and had I followed the first dilates of my passion. So much was I provoked at her manner of fpeakingj. that I should have .disowned all my tenderness to the child, though my heart would have • given the lye to my words; and have vented
Thuch. more bitter reproaches, than those she
received
/

/
feceived from her brother. And, pe m the heat of my resentment, I might have told her, that, to ohige her, I would re disclaim all relation to it. But a few moments
refle£uon, and the Sight of Luc
■ ' ' ‘
made me refolye to Speak in a different man tier; and Mr. stevens’s good-natured apology, not to Speak at all. Could 1, Madam, have Said anything that would have displeased Liir ciw more? Gould I have behaved in a man ner more contrary to the fettled disposition of nay mind ?'Yet passion would have done what my reason would for ever have disallowed, Mr Stevens took the child, who clung to me, and, giving me a beseeching look; cry’d at parting *. He stepp’d with her to his Sister, and letting her on one of the arms of the chair,
\
Ihe had just str^gth enough to keep h from falling. or three
y -- I.
times; but had hardly had her a minute, whest

saying, that her crying diftraisted her head, fly defined that Somebody would take, the naughty girl stom her. Lucius Seized hpr in his arnas; and first ieeming to observe my looks, hugged her to his bofoma klffidsher with the affection of a tender, parent, and then brought her to me, and desired her to kifs me, ^hich she readily did. He Smiled, and being
apprehenfivc
Fe VI CL A T 0 Gh A R LOTTE i I
^pprebensive that prudilla’s ill temper mighj again show itself, wish’d her better, and *botst took our leave, Mr. Stevens calling for the nurse to take the .child. While we werj^ at dinner, Mr. steven?.renew^ his apologias, nd, at the farpe time, told ipe, that he ha •been So provoked, at feeing my gpodness, as ie called it, So ungratefully return’d, that, notwithstanding his sister’s illn/^s, he shad mupbi ap to behave toward?, her with, any degree of •decency. And, on, this Score top,, shnsius. vip .dicatedbis Silence, alledgiiig, shat if heshg|\ once begun to reproacst her., hi? heat, of tonj^ iper would, m all probability, have rngdeshimi. vtreat her, in Such amannei;, a? njiight havft sheen attended v?ish: very ill consequences, .wishi respeist to her. I was not,, I confess, en tirelyf,
(Satisfied wish this reason; I was insnlted on
shis account, and had beeni shocked with re
* * •. ’. •
in the fp)dst of a glow tendernef^ and while I was giving a high testiniony shif finy affection to him, and engaged in an employment, which my fronted pride mide t ralmost look upon as an aflt of fupererogatioii. However, I Seemed to adniit of his ej^cufe, an '<aslmade.no .reply, but took pain? to curli; and coike^l she tetnains of my il] temper,
which


TO
LOTTE
which had now pretty well fubsided, he Seemed to think me perfe£uy Satisfied with it.
You See, Madam, that I can be out of humour without cause. Lucius was certainly in the right: for how barbarous would it have been in him to have retaliated an affront, on a woman on the very verge of life, merely for a weakness and peevish fretfulness, which her illness, added to her uneasy reflections, might well excuse!! had the consequences been what he had just reason to dread, I am Sure he would never have forgiven himself.
Our conversation, Madam, for the rest of the day, was So little interesting, that I shall not trouble either you or myself with a repetition of it. And, indeed, I have already given you trifles enough to make you think this a most trifling letter. My mind was, however, in a most delightful Situation, all the afternoon, and particularly, when we took our leave; and the engaging manner in which Lucius made his acknowledgments upon our return home in the coach, strengthened and confirmed every delightful sensation. My dear Felicia, Said he, taking hold of my hand, and giving me a look exp restive of everything that can be called tender and generous; how
45
  169-
kind, how obliging is your whole behaviour! how agreeable is my Surprise to find nothing but the dearest proofs of affection, where I ex pefsted to meet with reproach; and to See you generously overlook, a crime, which would raise the indignation of almost every other woman! To see you caress a child, which is
not your own! A child that is -- -- -- But I can’t
find words to express half my meaning. Is all my tenderness too little for you, that you must thus endeavour to increase it, with the most sensible obligations, and to add to love the highest admiration and gratitude? How much are you mistaken, cry’d I, laughing! what will you say if I tell you that I know many ladies, and, I believe. Seme of stridl virtue too, who have adopted it as a maxim, that “a reformed rake makes the best hustand.” This is really a most ridiculous, as well as indecent assertion, and, whenever it is tried, a most dangerous experiment; but as vanity makes them always flatter themselves, that their charms are capable of producing this wonderful reformation, they are hardly ever afraid of marrying, even the most abandoned libertine, though sunk a thousand degrees below
the dignity of a man. Pray what would these people say to a fault, which must appear ex vol. II I tremely^

170

N
treinely Small, when compared to years Spent in the diabolical employment of ruining innocence, and in all the cruel infernal arts of falsehood, deceit, and treachery? I am Surprised, my dear. Said Lucius, that ladies, who have adopted Such a pernicious opinion, should have So little prudence as to make it public. Have they no sense of modesty? Can shey ’be infensible, that people will be apt to charge them with being influenced by destres, that prompt them only to approve a man, who has given beforehand convincing testimonies of his ability to gratify them; and that, for a certainty of this they will Sacrifice every other consideration, and prefer him who has proved himself a villain? You know, my dear, it is not Such as these I meant. I would not do you the injury to mention your name with theirs, nor am I Solicitous about the dislike or approbation of Such as these: : that you should thus generously hide my faults: how can 1 Sufficiently thank you! That you, who are modesty itself, a friend to every virtue, should, instead of upbraidings, lavish your ten derness, and, with all the blandishments of
love, caress an infant, that -- Hold, hold, my
dear, cried 1, laughing, a truce to your flattery, I beseech you. Pray how long have
we
  lyt
we been married?
Above nine months I
believe : it’s high time Sure to have done with
compliments: why we ought to have had
twice as many quarrels; and, to follow the
mode, we should, before this time, have begun heartily to hate each other : — but to be
Serious, added I, with a gravity much more
Suitable to the present difposition of my mind
than this slight, which, however lively, was
all affe^lation; to what purpose should I torture
you, by reproaching you with a fault long
since passed? Can I give you pain without
feeling it myself? Since none of us are perfect,
ought I not rather to rejoice that you
have so few faults, and So many virtues to
counterbalance them? I am very fensible that
should a young woman, with the same temps

tation. So readily forfeit her honour, she would
be entirely inexcusable, and her crime would admit of but little alleviation. I am fensible
too, that though she would suffer the greatest
infamy, by becoming a mother, your crime.
in the eye of heaven, may be as great as hers;
yet the world that would condemn her, will
excuse you : and shall I be more obdurate, and
less ready to forgive than a stranger? 1, who
have improved by your example, and who
owe to you a vast acquisition in knovvledo e,
1 2
and
N
172 Felicia TO Gharlotte.’
and in many Sublimely delicate sensations. It was you, who first taught me to converse with myself, to know the pleasures of reflection, and all the delight that accompanies heavenly gratitude and love. With all these obligations, have I reason to complain, that you are a man and not an angel? Though you have been frail, your mind is still untainted. 1 have not the least fear of your infidelity to me. It is my duty — it is my interest, to make you happy; and, I hope, it will always be, as it is
now, my highest pleasure. C Lucius! where could I have found a husband like you? for, as Hamlet says of his father, “Take you for “all in all, I ne’er shall look upon your like again.” >
Lucius embraced me; but told me he might, with far greater jijistice, retort the charge of flattery upon mj^. He confessed, that he had many imperfeaions, and the most tender and obliging things were Said on both Sides; but 1 have now neither the leisure nor inclination to repeat them. May every refined delight be yours, and may your ladyship ever be as happy as is, at present,
Tour ftncertji friends
Felicia Manly,
LET



LETTER XXXVIII
Am very glad. Madam, to find that both you and your aunt approve my conduit: but if you make my letters So public, as to show them your friends, you will oblige me, in Spite of my own inclinations, to write with, more reserve. The account of the dispute between her and you, on the propriety of lucius’s reproving a young woman, whom h? thought a partner in his guilt, is very diverting : but I am more pleased to find that con r fidence and unreferve, with which I have related certain events, and which I was not altogether Satisfied with, sufficiently justified, by her observations. It is with inexpressible delight I hear say; “that the ingenuity of mind,
“which could prompt him to undertake fb “irksome a talk, and the modest diffidence
“that accompanied his behaviour to me. So “opposite to the bold confidence of a man, who would rather glory in his guilt, place “him in So fair a view, as to make him, in “her opinion, more amiable than if he had“ “this shade to heighten the lights, “which form the portrait I have given of his “character.”

I
3
After

174

After this compliment to Lucius, would not any one imagine that I was a toleiable painter? She talks of lights and shades mutually Setting off each other; and what elfe is necessary to complete the picture?? unreasonable is it in her, to insist upon your defiling me, to present her with a more finished piece, and to give the portrait of his mind in one view! But you must be obeyed. And yet how difficult is the talk! Where shall I begin? He has all those endearing impressions of humanity, those native traces of goodnessi which the mind approves upon the first view. His virtue costs him little or no pains, it Springs freely from his soul; while the easy sweetness, with which it is accompanied, lets every one See that it is attended wssth all the pleasuies of self gratification : It is the result of a refined taste, a corredi imagination, and a fettled judgement. From hence his beneficence derives its virtue, as well as its Source, and not from a consideration of the pleasure that accompanies it. In short, he has a mind so noble. So difinterestedly and freely virtuous, that a person, who would represent virtue at a continual war with ourselves, would Scarcely allow him to have any virtue at all. Nay, if there be any foundation for the opinion of
those
  175
tho^e gentlemen, who place the perfection of a virtuous action, in the opposition it meets with from nature, he is absolutely incapable of performing one, either generous in itself, or acceptable to his God. If this commonly received opinion be true, it will prove that no one, who has not first been a eompleat villain, can possibly attain to the Sublime character of a good man; That he who stuctiuates between the rage of appetite ort the one hand, and his duty on the other, is the fairest character upon earth; and that a man of regular desires, a man of strict honour, a6ting from the most generous motives, is the most unhappy creature living; Since his virtues, becoming by practice in a manner constitutional, must lose all their value, and, consequently, their reward. But let it be considered, that the Jlrengtk of every vicious propensity, is only the weakness of the opposite virtue; that a reluctance to an adt of humanity, can only proceed from the hardness of a heart, petrified by a criminal: fclfilhnefs; and that the very Suspense between virtue and vice tarnishes the virtue, though it should become vixstorious. Can that be an imperfedlion in man, which is
the glory of all the higher orders of created beings, and even of the great Creator himself??
. For,

C

176
For, as a most ingenious author Says, “If “compulsion be the essence of virtue, the “condu6l of even the Supreme Being has much less merit in it, than the most dissn “genuous of his creatures; — for to pra£tise virtue, the highejl degrees of virtue, without con/iraint^ to pursue it upon a principle of ‘ free choice, for the mere pleasure and ap probation of the thing itself, as his glory, and his happiness, is what constitutes our “idea of the divine perfe£lion: and shall the same thing, which gives Such a Superlative grace and lustre to the divine character, cast a shade upon the human? So that, after all, “constraint and self-denial are So far from being necevary to virtue, that it is mere weakness and want of virtue, that gives them “either use or expediency.”
Thus, Madam, I have been at the pains of embellishing my letter, and Setting off my own refle<£tions, with a long quotation, to - contradhsi a favourite opinion of your aunt’s j and to prove, that my dear Lucius may be a good man, without havinu; a violent inclina




tion to be a bad one. T here are instances, it is true, in which virtue is attended with Some
degree
r
* See Philemon to Hydafpes, the Second coflver fiition upon false religion, page loa, 103.

177

degree of felfidenial; and this would, doubtless, have been the cafe of Lucius, had he had virtue to refuse the profered favours of the unknown Prudilla; but, however difficult the conquest is at first, a steady adherence removes every obstacle; the temptation, aristng from future attacks, becomes less and less, as the mind becomes more perfect;; treads down the briers, and makes the path plain, easy, and delightful; unnumber’d beauties open to our view, and the rugged road becomes the lawn of pleasure;; mind, is at leisure, calmly to contemplate the divine landscape that lies before it, to enjoy the fragrant breeze, to taste the charms of conscious innocence, budding with golden fruit; and, above all, with rapture to behold the Smiles of heaven, beaming celestial light, and divine complacency.
But whither am I rambling? It is time to trace back my steps, and, like a good wife, to return to my husband;; as I flatter myself, that I have done him jurice, I will proceed with his chara61er, which will be best illustrated by his conduct. His usual employ mem is, in giving joy to a number of grateful dependents; and sometimes Marilla and I have the fasisfadlion of joining with him, in
I 5 lithe
lyb
little ^a<sls of beneficence and compaffiorw When there are immediate objects of diftress before him, how readily does his sensible heart catch their Sorrows! how Speedily does he anticipate their wishes, and turn their grief into admiration and joy! while his affability and condescension give an irresistible grace to his benefits. But not contented with doing good, when forcibly touched by objc(si: s of pity, he endeavours to prevent jthe least approach of unhappiness and misery, and provides against the poor’s alking for relief, by placing them above the want of it.
With regard to this his principal view; he has laid a plan for making considerable alterations in the garden. To Serve the poor; he has already * levelled giants with the ground, demolished enchanted castle?, .and will shortly, by an arrangement of more natural beauties, utterly banish thephanta/iical; which, like the Chinese paintings, can only please, by showing a kind of resemblance of nature, in the most whimsical and natural proportions. The choicest flowers, instead of being depo sited in knots, are to be carelessly strewed a amongst the short grass j and, being mingled
with:

See Letter XXVIII p. 3?»
Fflicia to Charlotte.
r; 9
with every Species that adorn the fields, will, in the most beautiful manner, brocade the velvet carpet: while the tulip, auricula, and carnation, and all those, whole rising stalks would render them liable to be broken by the un distinguistiing foot, or the roller, are to retir®
to the margin of our walks, and Ikulking close to seek protection from the nicely cut verdant walls, and obelisks, that are still to retain their form. We are to have, in one part, groves
and vistos of ever greens, while in another,
%
the vine, the honeysuckle, and the ivy, are to entvine the barren trunks, and mingle with the branches, of a row of elms,, that extend across the extremity of the garden, but which,, at every walk, leave an opening to let in a’ vievy of the neighbouring country. Thus, in thofe seasons, when the rain, or the frost, withholds Subsistence from the families of our
N
poor tenants, we shall always find them employment, till they can return again to their usual labours. By this means our most agreeable accommodations will become of cxtensive benefit, and our very amusements, accompanied with those pleasing sensations, which re fuk from a calm, utidisturbed, benevolence.
The man, who has personal merit, may fiifely depend on being treated by Lucius with
1 6 ' the.

. i

*
io
the utmost respedl, though his circumstances are ever So low: for his poverty, So far from being a reproach. Seems, in his opinion, to entitle him to a Superior kind of deference. He relieves him with an air, that shows he is only paying a debt due to humanity; and So cautious is he of giving a shock to his fenstbi lity, that he has the look rather of a person obliged, than of one conferring an obligation. For the relief of distrelted merit, he denies himself many of the elegancies of life, and, particularly, those of the table, from which every costly luxurious Superfluity is banished. The mcannefs of a man’s natural abilities never inspires him with contempt. If his heart be good, it is all that he requires; though he cannot give him the esteem due to a friend, he is, in his opinion, a much more amiable chara6ier than the man that wants humanity, though possessed of every other qualification that can entitle him to respect: and, indeed, without this, fine sense, the most brilliant wit, the most profound erudition, added to the gla; : e of wealth and high birth, can extort no more from him, than a stiff formal civility. He is, in one word, an enemy to nothing, but vice and affediation; but he can ridicule the latter, and yet give the persona share of
> h
Fjelicia to
V

his esteem. His conversation, indeed, wants that brisk gaiety, and sprightliness of fancy, and all the light and airy lallies of imagination, which, we comprehend under the term witi and as to repartee, he Seldom indulges it. He has but little taste for these Sparkling advantages in others, he regards them in too mean a light; and, therefore, is not fufhciently sensible how'much.thefe natural accomplistiments give a brilliancy to conversation. When he talks, his strong lense is enlivened by a happy turn, a natural elegance of exprestion, and his language, like his Sentiments, is not only just but Sublime, Yet gravity is not always agreeable, and there are moments when folly becomes pleasing, and we find a delight in being ridiculous: from hence wit derives its most pleasing charms; for with too much wisdom we are Sometimes apt to moap into dulness, But this is a cafe that rarely happens with him, though Sometimes it does with me. His Spirits flow with a Smooth and even stream, whilst I, having Sometimes airy flights, am subje<£irto fink into a dullness, which folly and impertinence are best adapted to relieve.
You need not be told. Madam, that this is partly my cafe at present; the heaviness of my
expressions
\

i
expressions, towards the conclusson of what I have written. Sufficiently indicates that of my mind. I have lost myself in drawing a cha ra6ter, every way so dear to me, in describing a man, whose soul is the soul of friendship j no wonder then that my Spirits flag I But, after all, your ladyship will, perhaps, think, that my affection carries me too far; and that while I am paintihg the hujband. I am only discovering the fondness of the wife. I will, therefore, in pity to you, as well as myself, finish thispleafing, though difficult subject;; to
Secure myself from the double charge of dullness and partiality, leave, at least, half his virtues untold. With my Smcereft compliments to your other self.. your very good aunt;,
I am
Your ladyship’s
moji eledient
Felicia Manly;
L E T
  183
LETTER
Dear Madam,
Can now inform you, that Mr. Stevens hat been at Mr. manly^s, where he had' an opportunity of an hour or two’s conversation with Sophronia and marilla.; when, to their no small surprise, under the Seal of Secrecy, he unfolded the whole affair, relating to the child; and they readily agreed to take the pretty infant into their care. After this he went to my aunt’s, where he found her Son, who arrived the day before from his travels, and who was just returned from paying a visit to men lifont, and his lister Amelia. As he was just Setting out to See us, Mr. Stevens altered his intention of staying there to dinner, and rear dily agreed to accompany him. Accordingly, they arrived, attended by a very' Smart young gentleman, who had commenced an acquaint tance with my cousin, while they were abroad, from the Single consideration of their being countrymen: they, therefore, returned together, and, as his friends lived in Yorkshire, he made my aunt’s in his wav home, and, at my coufm’s request, conlented to stay with him
two.

1
eehidrai TO Charlotte
two or three days, to rest and refresh himself on his journey.
Lucius received them all, with great re lpc6t, though Mr. Stevens was, I believe, the most welcome vifttor. The gentleman, who was an absolute stranger to everybody present, except my cousin, made an agreeable appear aiice; he had an easy flow of words, and an animated expression; but his conversation was that of a professed libertine. He Swore very fluently, and endeavoured to divert us with a recapitulatiori of several of his adventures in France and Italy, My coufln had So much less of the gentleman in his behaviour, as he had more affectation; and, indeed, he had acquired nothing by his travels that I could discover, but a low kind of knowledge, that he had better have been without, a greater stock of vanity and folly, and a knack of impertinently introducing a little French : and that his conversation might want nothing to render it disagreeable, he Swore twice as much as his companion. For he had Scarcely Sat down, when taking a glass of wine, he cried, with a ridiculous affedied grin, ’sblood, Madam, you see that I have lost rien by my travels, and So, damn, a mtres Jervice. — Ha, ha, ha 1 — Why
lookee, that is as much as to Say, My Service to ye,
We
 .'
1s5
We had but once before the honour of entertaining Such company; however, as this was the first time of our feeing my cousin after a long absence, and, as the other was both his friend, and an abfulute strangei to us, good manners, or raiher the custom of the world, would not Suffer us to hazard the giving them an affront, by a reproof, which, however just in itself, would have been taken as a gross insult. Dinner was but just over, when we were agreeably fuiprized with a visit from a very worthy gentleman, the minister of the parish. But it was Some time before we received any relief from his company : and, indeed, though reproof was more Suitable to his character than ours, I Soon found that he also had too much of the Same good breeding to interrupt them. The stranger ran on with his intrigues, referring every minute to my cousin, to whom he always gave the name of his pocketbook, to know either the precise time of an event, or
the name of the place where the important trifle was transacfed; when the latter, to show his exail punctuality, and to indulge, perhaps, a kind of vanity in displaying the Itrength of a memory, wholly taken up with trifles, was Sure to launch out into twenty particulars, foreign tp the question. He never forgot the
name
/'
i8‘6
name of the meanest village, and, if he was alked, what any town was called, where they had dined; he not only readily replied, but added, of his own accord, the Sign at the gate of the inn, what they had for dinner, whether the wine was good or bad, and Some little adventure of his own, and this by way of epi sodes; for when he had done,, he always put the other in mind'to go on again : But, damn jack! — as you was a saying— — — allons, constantly concluded whatever my wife cousin had to say. Thus they played into each other’s hands, while we had nothing elfe to do, but, like humble auditors, to listen to their impertinence.
The tea table did not procure us any iir termiffion j and finding the clergyman had no intention to interpose, I stepped aside into the next room, desiring him to follow me; where I told him, that he would oblige me, if he would take upon himself the trouble of giving them a genteel reproof : for I could not bear to hear them Swear, with Such uncontrolled freedom. He promised that he would, and we returned to our chairs. We had hardly lat down, when my cousin gave him a very favourable opportunity; for, accidentally fpil mng a little tea upon his legs, he began, to
curse
Fslicia to Charlotte;
187
curse, and stamp, and Swear, like a madman; but no damage being done, he was presently easy, when the clergyman observed, in a very handsome manner, that he could not help being So impolite, as to think Swearing a very poor accomplistiment in a gentleman; that it was a vice that wanted even the colour of temptation to excuse it, having neither the allurements of pleasure nor profit T he predominance of this profane practice, added he, frequently calls for the most earnest exhortations from the pulpit; and, 1 lately preached a sermon upon the subj, est, which I wish you had had the benefit of hearing.
THIS reproof gave me a Secret fatisfa61io% and I was going to Second what he had Said, when the stranger replied : And pray, doctor; be So good as to tell us, what success this performance of yours had? I hope, in the Lord you made a pretty maoy converts; for, to be Sure, nobody could withstand the force of your easoning. The reverend gentleman, I must confess, looked a little silly and disconcerted. My cousin laughed, and jogging Lucius with his elbow, and, at the same time, winking with one eye, cried, just loud enough to be heard by all the company, Du di&ble! did you mind him, hay — ^oons, twig the parson, Well
weljj
1
is

well, cry’d Lucius, Smiling, I heard the Sermon the gentleman mentions; and, I assure you, it was a very good one. I take this opportunity, Sir, to thank you for it; but you must excuse me, if I am of a different opinion from you, in this particular. Swearing is certainly attended with both pleasure and profit; and was I to preach a sermon, it should be to prove it.
The stranger appeared quite at a loss, and rubbing his forehead, I heard him mutter to himself, I will be damn’d if I can tell what to make of this! Pleasure and Profit! Old Sir Crape is in the right: but what the devil does the gentleman mean? After all, it is a cursed foolish custom. My cousin, clapping Lucius on the back. Seemed mightily delighted, without knowing why. Mr. Stevens was in a deep suspense, and looked at Lucius with extreme attention: while I was perfectly astonished. I had been expecting Some grave and judicious remark, and did not doubt but that Lucius would advance Something new on the subject, that might, for the present, at least,, put a stop to their profane impertinence; when I was all at once mortified to find that I had Spoke to the reverend gentleman to little purpose. Since he was resolved to take their part, and to countenance

189
tenance what I knew his heart must cundemm
Fie, fie, Sir, cried the clergyman, aster a lit
✓
tie hesitation, and, with a tone and look that showed him equally pleased and diltati&fiedj You joke — I am Sure you do. Make a Sermon in praise of Swearing! God forbid — stis all a joke. Indeed, Said Lucius, I am in earnest. don’t you think I should make Some converts! It is a taking Subject — quite new, I believe. Sir. Phu, phu, converts! Perverts I cry’d the good gentleman, with Some warmth j ay, converts for Satan, indeed. Dear Sir, for heaven’s sake, don’t talk in this manner. My
cousin was now all life, he seiz’d lucius’s hand, crying. Ay, do, give us, do un sermon fur des fermens. Ha, ha, ha, yop See I am a wit. i’ll be cursed if I don listen to you; faith! I will remember every word, begin, commence. No, no, cry’d
Gome,
Lucius
why in Such haste? I am not uied to preaching, and, therefore, as this will be my first
performance, a day or two’s time is little enough
to prepare myself. If you will all give
me the favour of your company, the day aster
tomorrow 1 will oblige you. Meanwhile, I must desire you, and this gentleman, your
friend, to consider the matter Serioufiy, and
prepare yourselves to anticipate what I shall
have
/
ipo

have to say; by this means, you will justify this practice to your own minds, and, whenever
you are attacked' in this manner again, be ready, with my assistance, to vindicate yourselves to the world, as well as your own consciences. I would have everybody ai from principle; and, therefore, I must beg you to endeavour to suspend the pra6lice, only, till you can recoiled! Some good arguments for its vindication; this cannot. Surely, be very long a quarter of an hour, perhaps, may furnish you with Sufficient motives; but if not, I
would not have you be difeouraged; there can be no great hurt in waiting till you hear my Icdlure, which, I dare promise you, will furnish the strongest and most convincing reasons for your continuing the laudable practice. But you must permit me, gentlemen, added he with a smile, as your advocate and friend, to instst upon one condition, and that is, that I may be allowed to Swear the first oath, and give the first curse. The stranger immediately gave his consent to this proposition, which he acknowledged to be reasonable e nough; w’hile my cousin, with a look of pleasure, precipitately reply’d, (at the same time giving a stamp with his foot, and rubbing his
hands)
 191
hands) Damn it; ?nd So you shall, de tout mm cteur^ by — — Hold, hold, cry’d Lucius, I appeal to the company, if this be using me
well.
Though we were at a loss to know what he was driving at, we all gave our. assent, and I proposed that he should Suffer Some penalty. The poor youth was self condemned, and. Scratching his head, begged pardon, telling us, it was not done with dessgn : but Lucius was inexorable, he pulled out his watch, and proposed, that he should be obliged to be Silent for five minutes; and this Sentence being approved, he added, to punish him further, that he himself would not Swear, till he could find an opportunity of introducing an oath, in Such a manner, as to give a grace to the Sentence.
THE tea things had been taken away for Some time, Mr. Stevens had lighted his pipe, and the watch was placed on the table before Lucius, which my cousin, during the time of his Silence, continued to examine, with the closest attention : meanwhile, the clergyman
expressed his Surprise at lucius’s behaviour, and let us know, that he would not only hear him, but would sit up all night to answer fb
wicked a Sermon; and he did not doubt but
he
"192
he should be able to overturn all his arguments; and, therefore, invited the company
to hear him the Succeeding day at church: when be would let them see, that a good cause could fuflfer nothing by being attached j adding, that as be had truth and religion on his fide, he did not doubt but he should be enabled, through divine assistance, to convince, if not to reform them. Lucius requested that he would hear him, before he jm*omised too'much: ahd told him, that he himself, with all his zeal, might approve what he now condemned : however, he desired him to wait with patience, and, if he was not convinced, he would certainly attend to hear his own arguments refuted. But the stranger was averse to the proposal of going to church, and my dumb coussn showed his dislike to the motion, by signs, till he had liberty to Speak; and then he loudly exclaimed against it.
THE conversation was now more equally divided, and, at the same time, it was rendered less shocking; for whatever were lucius’s Secret intentions, which we were yet
»
unacquainted with, he had already, by Siding with them, produced a more happy effe£f, than would, probably, have attended all his remon ilrances. Our two travellers Spoke slowly,
aiid



and with abundance of precaution : and while we were all watching them, my cousm wa watching Lucius, frequently interrupting him, to let him know, that in Such a place he might handsomely introduce an oath; but Lucius bad the advantage of constantly proving, that it would flatten, or perplex, the sense of the Sentence: when waiting about half an hour to no purpose, my coufln, and his friend, perhaps tired of this restraint, took their leave,
and, in the most obliging manner, left us at
1
liberty, to indulge the pleasure of a free and unreserved conversation.
The clergyman Saw, and confessed, the force of lucius’s stratagem j but could com prend nothing of the Sermon, or his reasons for contradiiling an altertion, that had all the force of a self-evident truih : and, as he was now under less restraint, became very inquiss five, in order to Search into the motives of this extraordinary corrdu(51: : but all the answer he could obtain from Lucius was, that
9
he was really in earnest, and that he would give him no reason to be dissatisfied with his performance. So that he was obliged to wait, as well as the others, till the time appointed to gratify his curibflty took place.
vol. II K Lucius


A
194

liucius had this day afl: CD in a manner quite opposite to his usual condu£l, and I now Saw that the man, who had hitherto behaved with Such an artless simplicity of manners, had regulated his general behaviour from princi*^ pile, and from choice; since we found that he
was able, upon occasion, to assume a character oppositc to his own: and if this, Madam contradicts anything I have said of him in my last letter, pray impute it to my ignorance f his abilities. The rest of the afternoon was Spent very agreeably, and Mr. Stevens, before he took his leave, gave me a hint, that he Saw plainly that Lucius was only playing upon the two travellers; and added, that he would not lose the opportunity of visiting us on Saturday for any consideration.
The next day, and part of Saturday, Lucius continued locked up in hii closet, attended only by young i'n^eman, who served him as an amanuensis. The company came at the time appointed, together with Mellifont, my aunt, and Amelia, who had received an im'* perfeci account of the affair from her brother;
so that Lucius had a tolerable audience. As
/
Soon as they were Seated, he alked the two friends, whether they had ferioussy conssdered the affair, and if they had found out any important

*95
portant advantages attending the use of oaths, and curses in conversation. The stranger ingenuously confess’d, that he had considered it pretty closely, and that, So far from feeing any advantage in it, he really began to be a stiamed of the habit, and declared, that if he was to think much more about it, he should be
'* ‘ 5 • • • '.. ^
obliged to leave it off; for the more he thought of it, the more indefenstble it appeared. Lucius then, desiring that nobody present would take any exceptions to anything he Said, rose up and began : while all present, having their curiostty stretched to the utmost extent, seemed to listen with extreme eagerness and attention. And, as I imagine that yours is attended wish little less impatience, I here send you a copy, which Trueman has just traijicribed for your use.
A SER
1-9^
s
E
f'.
R
A
M
O
N

5
*
#
j •*
I N
praise of S w e a r i n g in conversatiom
Devt. VI 13. The lattet part ©fthe vere.
And SHALL swear by Ms name.
T H E R E is a Set of men in the world,
who need only be known in order to be despifed j men, who are a constant subject for ridicule, and justly the derision of the gay and more refined part of the human Species men who are so stupid, as to be more enamoured with the pleasure of a benevolent action, more charmed with giving joy to the helpless and miserable, with drying up the tears of the distrested, or Soothing the agonies of the bursting heart, than with the lordly pride of wanton power, than in rendering the wretched more wretched, than with spurning at patient merit, or even the fatisfadfion of racking tenants, hoarding wealth, or all the high gratification of a debauch; more delighted with the visionary pleasure of indulging their
own

197
own refle<stions, and the applause of a good conscience, than with the charms of a bottle, the transports afforded by the lascivious wanton, or all the high wrought indulgencies of a luxurious appetite. And, in one word, to Sum up their charaifier, more afraid of a false or even an unnecessary oath, than of the point of a sword.
It is with these poor mean spirited wretches, that I am now to combat, in order to stew n the great advantages that attend a (hist compliance with the injundxion in my text, And
A t
thou Shalt jwar hy his name. I stiad not here take up your time in examining the context, or even in confide: ing what is meant by the command in my text,, which f me would confine to the necessary oaths, taken in a court of judicature; but, like all sound divines, and in compliance with the custom of all good commentators and disputants, confider the passage before us, in that latitude, which is most adapted to answer my particular design.
One man takes his text, and endeavours, with the most elaborate eloquence, to prove,
that the bible he preaches from is a work not
/
fitto be read; that it never was designed for the instruffion of Such blockheads as his audience, who, by looking into it, incur dam
K 3
natioa

IQ 8

nation. What concerns all to know, must be read by none but the priest, or whom he shall appoint. How glorious that revelation, which, in the hands of the multitude, points the way to misery, but, in those of the church, to eternal life I It is she aloiie, who can infallibly inform us, that love, and charity, and compassion, and stenderness, So often mentioned in that old book, the bible, mean Spite, and.hatred, and inquisition, and burning faggots.
Another, with pious Snuffle, and all the
ipovirig force of Sighs arid groans, prove that the Cjod of truth is the God of
finding his fchemo contradidled, by thb language of Scripture, for Scripture nicely distinguishes between a revealed and a Secret Wilst both opposite, both contradidiory to each other. Scripture he proves to be a lye; his opinion he proves to be tfiife from Scripture. He wise ly turns out comtnon sense, to make room for grace. He degrades reason as being in league with the devil, and, irt the pious ardour of his heart, Saves himself the trouble of thinking, and cries ont — I letieve^ because it is impojjlhle. Ye deists rejoice in there your friends! Admit them into your Societies! They, like you, can darken truth, they have assisted you in
Setting


letting fragment against fragrrtent; and, when the dazzling sunbeams Ibine too bright, can wisely ssiut their eyes. Let me too be permitted to rank myself on this fide, and, countenanced by such great authorities, to take a text that (hits my present purpose, regardless of every other passage that may be supposed to contradi(st it: nay, regardless of the text itself, any further than as it may serve for a plausible introduction to what I have to offer.
f
It is Sufficient, therefore, that we have hera command to swear by the name of God; which I shall take, in the common and vulsar
O
sense of the word Swearing, to mean, not only all manner of oaths, but whatever goes under the denomination of Swearing in conversation, as oaths, curses, and imprecations.
In treating this Subject 1 shall consider,
I. The many advantages attending th
e tre
quent use of oaths, curses, and imprecations: in which will be sufficiently proved, the falseness of that assertion, that Swearing is attended with neither pleasure nor profit.
II Answer Some objedlions. And,
HI. Make a Suitable application,
1. I am to confider the many advantages arising from a frequent use of oaths, curses
and imprecations.
K 4
In
200
i
In the jirji place, this genteel accomplishment is a wonderful help to discourse; as it supplies the want of good sense, learning, and eloquence. The illiterate and stupid, by the help of oaths, become orators; and he whose wretched intelledls would not permit him to utter a coherent Sentence, by this easy practice, excites the laughter, and fixes the attention, of a brilliant and joyous circle. He begins a Story, he is lost in a vacuity of thought, and would instantly, to his eternal dishonour, Become Silent, did not a Series of oaths and imptecaiions give him time to gather up, or raiher Seek the thread of his discourse: : begins again, again he isi oft, but having complimented his friends, by calling fer eternal damnation on them all, he has thought what to Say next, and finds himsdf able to proceed with a Sentence or two more. Thus he still stalks on, while thought follows stowly after. Blessed expedient! by the use of which, polite conversation glides on uninterrupted, while Sound is happily Substituted in the place of sense: : this, mankind communicate familiar noises to each other, with as little intellectual ability and labour, as a pack of well match’d hounds; so Soften the obje6l of their delight
and admiration! O how preposterousty absurd
then!
 '
201
/
then! how false, and contrary to experience, is that ridiculous assertion, that Sweating is attended with neither fpleasure nor profit! For what higher pleasure, what greater profit and advantage can a man enjoy, than to find, that, in fplte of nature who has dire^ei him to he ft lent.^ he can hear himself talk — talk without stammering, or drawing out each heavy Sentence, that lags behind to wait on thought. Ye idiots rgoice! ye coxcombs, whole costive brain ne’er didtated the flowing sentiment, be glad! Ye, whom learning never fired, in stupid ignorance lost, exult! Blessed with east and indolence, you talk, and those, like you, admire; while listening demons clap their wings, and grin applauie.
Forgive me. Sirs, if, fired with my Subject,
I lose my usual moderation; for who can help being warmed at the motion of such glo rious advantages as these?? which level the conveffation of the mighty, and raise the oratory of the carman and pouer. Here the lowest frequently excel; the ploughman wit h clouted Ihoon, outvies his competitors, and pradlifes the vices of the gentleman, wish more success than the lord of the manor; or the fidtndid courtier, though adorned with
K 5 star
2-02 Felicia to Charl6tti»
star and garter. Here no abilities, no learfl* ing, are neceltary, no studious hours are required to attain perfe£hon. Tropes and figures, all the fiowers of oratory, all the pedantry of the Schools, are vain and useless trumpery, compared to these ornaments i they require pains and study, nor can be applied without judgement, and the toil of reading what arc foolishly called, the ingenious and polite authors : but Swearing is, as I have Said, learning to the ignorant, eloquence to the blockhead, vivacity to the stupid, and wit to the coxcomb.
secont)ly, Oaths and curses are a proof fa most heroic courage, at least in appearance, which answers the Same end. For who can doubt the valour, the intrepidity of him who braves the thunder of heaven, who affronts the most formidable being in the universe, arid treats, with contempt, that all enlivening principle, which sustains and animates the whole creation? To what a noble elation is the heart of the coward conscious, when he thus defies the Almighty, and imprecates the fires of hell! Let the blustering bully domineer, let him roar out his curses, and threaten all who dare provoke the vengeance of his potent arm; let him terrify by
a Surly
fet I CIA T O C H A R LOT T E.
203
a Surly frown, and intimidate when, with portly gait, he vents ten thousand oaths and curses on the wretch, who impudently presumes to oppose his mighty will — who dares doubt his courage? Who can believe, that the cane, or the toe, when duly applied, have Such magic power, as to make him twist and writhe himself like a fei pent, till, with this exercise, his joints, and his mind, become so Supple, that he canhend and cringe, and alk pardon? Let the meek Soldier boast his deeds of war, and, with oaths and execrations lace the self flattering tale; who can believe that So great a hero stiould have an antipathy to the Sight of steel? Or that he, who challenges the blasting light -- ning to fall on his head, would tremble, and turn pale, at the fla(h of a pistol? No, this must never be imagined; for can it be supposed that he has less bravery in the field chan •in the tavern? With these blustering expletives, then, the coward may strut and look hig, and every minute give fresh proofs of an invincible courage: he may bravely Sport with that Being, whose frown would rhake the heavens and earth to tremble : he mav Seem to
J
4
Snatch the vengeance from his uplifted hand, and throw it on his foe; he may invoke the wrath of heaven; and who can imagine that
K 6 he
■ft04 f'elscta TO chartottir
ht 1b afraid fef deathj wheri he b continually calling for all the horrors of hell?
thirdlv, he hereby not only gives a proof of his courage, but informs the world, that he is entirely divested of all the foolish prejudices of education, and has unlearnt
j!u thki th mr/ii end all thprieji havi taught:
that he has not only shook off the shackles of enthusiafm, but has banished from his mind, ' that reverence of the deity, which is the foundation of every system of religion. He is not fufpetsted of being Such a fool as to want in strudlion, Since it cannot be imagined, that he has So dull a taste as to go to church, unless, if he be a gentleman, to ogle the ladies; if a clown, to steep; or, if a tradesman, in complaisance to the sober old women of both sexes, who happen to be his customers: and he has this additional advantage, that he will never he taken for a pious churchman, a preshyte ti; an, a Quaker, or a methodist. And, in reality, he is sofar from being a bigot to any religious principles, that he belongs to no religious Society upon earth. That he is not, nor cannot he a Christian, is evident; for what is Christianity? It is extensive benevolence,
humanity,
U 1
y
/
Fslicia to Charlotte.
205

humanity, and virtue, to which he bids de] ] with every curse. He cannot be a Deist, because they openly profess the utmost reverence for the deity; and, for the Same reason, he can neither be a Jew, or a Mahometan, or a follower of Confucius. No, nor even an Atheist; Since we cannot conceive, that he would So often call upon God, if he was thoroughly convinced there was no Such being in the umverfe; however, he every minute lets us See, that he does not fear him. How unlicensed is his freedom, how glorious and unconstrained! Let the wretches, who meanly bend their wills, and regulate their actions, by the Sage dilates of reason and conscience; who stoop to follow the rules of religion, and call them sacred; let these bridle their tongues, let these confine themselves within the narrow limits prescribed by reason and good sense; the Swearer knows better; sense, and reason, and religion, are all subservient to his will; he disdains their fetters, and rules those which rule all the world beside.
Fourthly, and lastly, another advantage which attends the vice of the gentleman, this noble accomplishment, is, that it sometimes raises him to dignity and honour. Under this
head.

If
iii

I
ib‘
’i'i
1,
l!!
!!
ti M


': i
liiii
ihi
i I LI
head, indeed, I take a greater latitude, and advert ta remote consequence of the praflice of Swearing: but, as there is Such a close con
tatenatioii in all our habits, and virtue and vice are progtellive in their very nature, I should not do complete justice to my fubjeff, if I omitted the cortstderation of it in this particular view. When a man, Therefore, by a happy aflbdation of ideas, joins to the other advantages of this vice, ideas of wealth and grandeur; when he sees no argument, that appears of any weight, to bind him down to the unthrifty rules of honesty, and his regard for his own private advantage is too strong, to let him have any for the private property of his neighbour j what should hinder him, when a fair opportunity offers, from raising himself, by the ruin of his neighbour, his companion, or his dearest friend? He has Swore to a thousand lies in company, without any view dfprivate advantage; what should prevent him then from taking one faife oath, when the advantage is so considerable? Surely, neither conscience, nor reason, nor religion, can do this; no, that isimpoisble; fori, who am as infallible as any dignified priest, that ever mounted a pulpit, have asserted, that these
all subservient to his will.
Her e
\
L I in i
f 1
ii
1) 1 ’

Felicia to
20‘7
Here the Sweater, with an unbounded arh bition, aspires to Seize on wealth, ahd boldly to grasp at those riches, which fortune has foolishly given to a more deserving person j and this, in Spite of Justice andec^uity, who are his professed eneniies. Thus he rises above the multitude, and gains a lasting fame 4 not by blood and slaughter, but by cunning, deceit, and artifice; by bursting through the most folenin engagements, breaking in funder the bonds of Society, and only violating What mil honest men hold Sacred. Suppbfe, that he fails inhis attempt, and the property of theperfon he has attacked remains inviolate: he is conveyed to a castle, strong as that of a crown’d head j where no impertrnertt intruders dare appear to disturb his repose: for in the daytime, he has a porter to stand at his gate j in the night his faithful attendants lock and bar his doors.
Surrounded with guards, he pays a Solemn visit at the Seat of Justice j he has the honour of being admitted to the royal bench; he converses with that Sovereign personage herself, and, for a considerable time, takes up the whole attention of her prime ministers, the lords of her court, who, assiduous bo pay
him
/


him all due respect,, his coming in their proper habiliments; and though it be ever So early in the day, he is never received with the difrefpedtful negligence of an undrest. The ceremony being over, he is recondu<sted by the same guards who brought him thither, and who dare not presume to leave him, till he is safe within his palace. He now soon receives the reward of his baffled dexterity, the glorious fruit of his ambition. The day arrives, devoted to mirth and jollity, bufinels and care are laid aside, and every labouring hand has now a holy day. He walks, or rides in his triumphal car, attended by a numerous throng of gazing fpe(fiators: he is mounted above their heads, and his neck, not his temples, adorned with a civic wreath, and his wrists with an embrazurc, composed of a matter, something coarser, indeed, than that of pearls and diamonds. This is no Sooner done, than gaping thousands send forth shouts of joy, and bending low, even to the ground, pay him homage; then ristng up, with loud acclamations, present their tribute, striving who most shall pay, who oftenest bend. He is coveted, he is loaded, with their gifts, and
sensibly touched with their bounty. The more he gains, she more unenvied here he stands,
while
\
I i
  2o9
while all rejoice, and give the applause that is his due. But, let his modesty be ever So great, let his blushes be like the trickling drops of crimson, painting' his bashful cheek, and prompting a willingness to retire from these honours; yet one hour, at least, he is restrained to stay, to receive the willing offerings of the multitude. Thrice happy man! had conscience, or had reason sway’d, thou never hadst thus been blessed; unknown thou mighteft have livedj unknown have died.
II I COME now, in the Second place, to aniwer Some objedlions j but as these, after what has been Said, must appear extremely trifling, I shall be as concise as possible, and hasten to a conclusion. It is Said,
4*
In the firji place, that the Swearer als in direct oppolkion to all the rules of right reason.
But how can this be called an objection a gainst Swearing? What have we to do with
right reason- -- -- -- leave.it to the dull
^. _
wretches, the men of reflection : and yet there are Some of these, who attempt to mimic us : but if they ast inconfistemly with their own
abilities.
•3

i >
ll,
I 1
210  ’
Abilities, let them look to that. An upright man is a downright fool, if he shears at all. Let those who can talk without it, extol their wondrous talents; they have no need of this
i «
polite vice to recommend them to the world. The Squeamish wretch, who is afraid of a lye, has no need to shear to what he says, for he is certain that his word will be readily taken. But away with these and nay wretches, men born to be pointed at; the sheepish, the Sober fools, who, regardless of the boundless liberty we enjoy, talk of rectitude of manners, religion, and conscience.
Secondly, and lastly, it is objected, that it is one of the most senseless, unnatural, rude, and unmannerly vices, that ever was invented.
THIS, it must be confessed, is paying a fine compliment to, at least, half the polite world. How can that be rude and unmannerly which
r
gives such a grace to conversation? His true, we express ourselves strongly, and use none pf those languid. Sneaking, epithets in our discourse,
which your modest men, your men of
/
humanity make use of: but as we talk without Hieafling, nobody can say that we mean
ill.
',
If. •
ftlicia TO Charlotte
an
ill. And, indeed, it is a very injurious expression, to Say that this is unnatural when So many of us have the honour of being universally deemed to be little hotter than natural.
And now, Sirs, I have proved, So effe£lu ally, the great advantages,, attending the practice of this genteel and fashionable vice, that there needs but one word by way of application.
Consider, O consider, how inestimable are the advantages I have mentioned! If there is any one here desirous of obtaining these, and yet is troubled, and intimidated, with the impertinence of a restless conscience, flying in his face, and threatening to haunt him, like a ghost, let him but follow my advice, and conscience will fall asleep. Would he steel
his heart against compurtdlicn, let him advance by degrees; if life is afraid of an oath, let him come as near it as he can, let him cry, Egad ramnaiion^ o'dram ye \ let him thus chip and carve a few comrrion«place expres sions, to fit them to his cortfcience, and the business will be done. This practice will render familiar, and the toward, who first:
trembled
/
2t2 Fl LICIA TO Ch All LOTTE i
/
t.
i:
• - y
: t t
i! •
•>
I,
i'. 1
I C
i »
.1.; i
!b’ i it :
1
r
S i
h
|!
WI

trembled at the thought of hell, will Soon have the courage to call for damnation.
V
«
And now, ye, who have long indulged this vice, who have arrived at perfection in this great accomplishment, and, by this means, have gained that applause, which nature would have denied you, which reason refused.. condemned : you, I Say, who, by Ihe assistance of this vice, have diliinguistied yourselves, either as the orator, the pimp, or the bully : you who, with more distinguished glory, have graced thtr lofty pillory y and yod who, under Specious oaths of Speedy marriage; have violated virgin innocence, and rewarded the maid that loved you, with eternal infamy; eonstder these noble advantages, applaud, com gratulate yourselves, and rejoice: you have not stopped at the most flagrant impieties; you have challenged, and defied, the blasting power of heaven to do its worst, and with a difin terestedness,. peculiar to yourselves, have generously sold the reversion of eternal, inexhaustible happiness, .merely for the pleasure of affronting that great beneficent being, who has prepared it for you, your indulgent Creator, and Almighty Friend. How nobly ungrateful! how unfelfish your conduct!!
your
r
 ' 213
#
your bravery, and confider the wisdom of the exchange; for how blind must wu be to every self interested view, how deaf to the calls of self-love, while infinite unbounded felicity has no charms, when standing in competition with the delight of affronting a benefadlor, with the
pleasure of a curse, and the satisfa<fi: ion of hearing your own impertinence I Stupidity, ig*t NORANCE, and Folly, are on your fide: al, therefore, like men, who profess to be their friends, and, like the true enemies of Reason, Religion, Virtue, and Common-sense, You have Seen your practice justified with advantages, which you have never before thought of: if these have any weight, if these have any charms, let them have all their influence. To Sum up all, let every man al; consistently with his real cha rafler, and, by his indulgence of this practice, or his forbearance, let his abilities, or his follies,, stand confessed.’'
Yo: u have now, I suppose, read this extraordinary performance; but the striking action, the natural expression varied into different tones j the Sneering air in which he uttered Some Sentences, and the thundering pompous manner in which he pronounced those
bordering
214

• I
5 *
I :


r'
V
L
■*
j f
II
i '■.
1 ‘,
LI
i;
iiii
H'
V
'r
bordering on the bombast, you can form nt idea of: these are still behind, and not to be expressed, even though I should endeavour to follow the example of that memorable preacher, who inserted, in the margin of his printed Sermon, the proper places where to cough, and where to blow his nose. Lucius had tarefully studied these particulars, which, how ^ever trifling they may appear, are essential parts of oratory. these furpalted all description, they gave life and energy to the discourse, every Sentence was animated with a degree of fire, peculiar to itself, which, at once, warmed our minds, and Spread abroad the light of conviction.
Lucios had no Sooner concluded this long
harangue, than the stranger appeared most forward to thank him, and not only acknowledged the Satire just, but very Ihonestly confessed, that he felt the force of every word, that he was shocked at a pra£fice he had too much indulged, and resolved never more to be guilty of it. My cousin Said, he believed Lucius was run ijiad, and that he could not understand half of it The clergyman, though he liked it very well in the main, thought it bordered a little upon the profane; but Mr, Stevens

i.'
  215
vens was very warm in its defence, as was my aunt, Mellifpnt, and Amelia, though the latter objedled to the puns and play upon the words; which Lucius vindicated, as agreeable to the ridiculous character he was Sometimes obliged to assume, and as moftdikely to strike the attention of those persons he had in view, who are commonly pleased with mere sounds, and but little influenced by arguments that require reflection.
I AM So used to write long letters to you that I hardly know how to send you a short one. It is a week Since 1 began this; it ]s therefore time to conclude, and to assure you, that I am, very Sincerely,
Youit lapyship’s
conjimi fnendy
Felicia Manly.
LETTER XL
Dear Mapam,
H E N I concluded my last, I had Several things to add, which I think
worthy
1! f
I \.
i; i
\' I
.(! i' ‘
U ■
11!
i; i
n;
H I
0
{1 t
•J i
J;
!
L;
i 1
.1 >
■ ';
: 1
, I
14
'1 1, i! :
‘d
i:

|:
.. t, *» A
VI
4 <
V • II

L
; ii'
Ii.
!il!
i'll
Ii
bu:

i:
o.

t >
i «
'i.
i i
2i6
worthy of notice, and, therefore, without any
further preface, I shall continue the fu bje£l:.
The person, whom I have hitherto diftin
gukhed, by the name of my cousin’s fellow
traveller, and whose real name is Smith, now
expressed an extraordinary esteem for Lucius,
which did not fecm to fall very short of the most cordial friendship. His confidence and
assurance, which was before the Source of
great impertinence, was, at this time, (permit,
Madam, the expression) melted down by a
kind of deference and shame, arising from a
sense of folly, and a consciousness of Superior
worth, into a modest manly diffidence, which serv’d to check the first impulses to an idle

gaiety; and cured him, at least in our company, of that forward talkative temper, which
had before rendered his conversation very disgustful.
His ingenuity in confessing his crime.
prepossessed us in his favour, and we soon found
him a fenfibje companion, in Spite of that
thoughtfulness that now threw a cloud over his
natural vivacity — a thoughtfulness that seem’d to derive its Source from a sense of inward
guilt, and the Secret reproaches of his own mind. My aunt made him a very handsome compliment on that open frankness of heart,
which
  217
which had made him dare to confess that he had been in an error; but she could not do this without a Sigh, and giving an affcdlionate look at her fon, Lucius let us know, that she had Spoke his Sentiments, and he was now regarded as a person worthy of being admitted, to a nearer, and more intimate ac<jaaintance. Mr. Smith, tho’ very much taken up wdth his own thoughts. Seemed extremely assiduous to please and to render himself agreeable to every person in the company; but more especialiy So to Lucius. He observed the refpest, the friendship, the Sweet complacency, that Sub sissed between Mellifont, Mr. Stevens, and us; he instantly regarded these two gentlemen as his friends, and addressed them in a manner, very different to his former behaviour. He observed the regard we expr. fled for the worthy clergyman, he now, therefore, trca'ed him with refpev^. My coufm Seemed to have lost his friend, and having nobody to shiks out his feeble fpaiic of tiie, and to give him
y
an opportunity to display his talents, (at filcnr, with a most forlorn anil disconsolate countenance, his eyes fixed on Mr. Smith, and a visible uneassnefs, at feeing him engross so muck, of the conversation, and in Such a manner too, as rendered it impossible for him to have any
^ ol. II L ssiaefii
Il \
f
}

'I
ji!
T. t i
II I
I
!
n
I
! b
‘ if
* %■
«1 s

/■ ■ f
r. 1,
t
share in it. He was, therefore, out of his element: He was jealous of the Superior refpe(9: shown to his friend : he was confounded, disappointed in all his high raifed hopes of future pleasure, and yet knew not how to complain. In short, he appeared like the figure of moping melancholy, Seated on a tomb. What a Surprising metamorphofisi
THE rest of the day was Spent with gre^ fatisfa(siion j for though the Subjects of dis courfe were extremely grave, yet our minds partook of that Sober, Solemn kind of entertainment, which, while we enjoy it, is attended with more delight, than the frolic laugh of mirth, and which has the power of accompanying, with a Serene Satisfadlion, the most distant reflediions; : and indeed. So exquisitely Iweet were thefeoalmiy pleasing, and self ap proving sensations, and So intent were they all on the subjects of .conversation, that they did not depart till late in the evening, and, even
then, it was with a visible reludlancc.
%
They had all prepared to go, when Mr, Smith, taking Lucius and me aside, Said, with an affectionate tone ot voice, I hope you will
both forgive my impertinent behaviour at my
fkst

I.
t'
1 ■
Fflicia to Charlotte.
tia
Hist visit; and I am the more Solicitous about this, as I have the ambition of being ranked among the number of your friends. Can you. Sir, can you. Madam, excuse my folly? I am thoroughly sensible of it, in every particular, and am as heartily ashamed of it: I wish your cousin was so too : as for me, I am going to lament in private. My boasted travels, the •fubje6i of my former vanity, have been the Source of a thousand extravagancies; instead ■of improving, they have only Served to dc hauch my mind: but these are no sooner stnished, than I meet with a person, who Sets them before me, in the truest light. The contrast between you and me, has been too 'glaring not te be observed— — a wretch do I think myself L — but I must no sooner know, than leave you — I leave you with relucstance, and it is very probable, that I shall never see you again. Lucius reply’d, by giving him the most frank and engaging assurances of his friendship, and, two days after, he fet forward on his journey. But it is time to return t ourselves.
Prudilla, Madam, has now breathed her last, but, notwithstanding her former terror and agitation of mind, her last minutes wer
L 2
A
M
la
!!
I
, 1
'I
• I
J
i i
i
!i!

■!i
rii
an

ri.
*
‘1 '; • *
• d
I
■ ■ i I
1 --
u
III
n r ■
d I
■i
lil

b!
‘t
ri
Ii
il
Ji
fish

220
perfectly composed;; as nature was quite Spent, (he left the world without those struggles, and convulsive agonies, which render that awful moment so terrible, with persons of stronger Spirits.
We have been Several times to my father’s to see the child, and both my mother, and my Sister Marilla, seem perfectly Sond of it. It is really an engaging little creature, and I think it impossible for me to help loving it. My duty, in this cafe, is extremely easy. Since it is attended with ah the pleasure of following my own inclinations, joined to the additional latissaftiori it gives to Lucius.
l
■
affair has just happened, which gives me great uneafmefs, the particulars of which I shall acquaint you with, in my next. I am
your over affedlionate
Felicia Manly.
%
LETTER XLI
Dear Madam,
AM now to relate to you the cause of that uneafmefs, 1 mentioned in my last; for as
you
\
•'5
I I
4 •
Felicia Ta Charlotte,
22 1
you have hitherto been the confident of all my little affairs, I have contradled Such a habit of laying my thoughts before you, that I really believe I should find no Small difficulty in concealing from you any circumstance irr which 1 have an immediate concern. How great is the force of custom! no Sooner does anything the least extraordinary happen, but I consider it as contributing to your amufment; ■ and frcqtiently sit down to acquaint you with my affairs, even before I have Sufficiently re fleisted, whether they are of importance enough to deserve your lotice : So that whether your are diverted with my story, or disgusted with my impertinence, depends entirely upoar •stance..
Some tirne ago, I took a Servant on the recommendation of a poor, though honest,
Id woman in the neighbourhood; but I need
%
not the charaffer she gave me, to prepos sefs me in her favour. The innocent and artless modesty of her looks, and the easy unconstrained freedom of her behaviour, were the first things that I took, notice of, and which rally inspired me with a favourable opinion of her virtue and diferetion; but this opinion was Soon heightened by the sweetness of her
l3
temper
)
‘1(1
I: : 1
I
i
‘ii
LI
'i!
♦
I
■!ii
ihi
!
II h 1
I
I
II
, 1
z2’2
Felicia to Cmarlottip.
temper, and a certain languor in her looks.
I hardly ever found her alone, but I observed
her in tears; from hence I began to pity her,
and, by degrees, this pity arse to a kind of
friendsiiip. I, therefore, made her Service a
easy to her as possible, and from being, at strii, my chamber maid, railed her to be my v»^ornan. As her conllitution was very deli cate, this was a station that I thought she had the greatest reason to be Satisfied with. But,
though ihe exprested the highest sense of gratitude, yet I could discover no alteration ini her disposition. Being still desirous to contrite her satissadiion, I endeavoured,, by all the ways I could think of, to difeover the cause of iier uneasiness; but Ihe evaded all my etv *]uiries with fomuch politeness and good sense, that I resolved, at length, to put a stop to my curiosity, till time should wear off her reserve,. r some accident, without her consent, inform me of her affairs.
e
A
Your ladyship is, perhaps, ostended at my offering to enteitain you with the trifling affairs of my strvants, in. which you are ready to imagine, there can no nothing of importance enough to engage my concern: but have
, -- I don’t doubt but I shall Soon obtain
II

2’2 2
tain your approbation with regard to this particular,
I HAD been called away in the middle of mf last letter .to you, and was returning to my ehamber to finish it. When recolledling, that I should want to use a stick of Sealing wax, -: which I had, the day before, giving to my favourite Dorothea, who, at her own requtst, i was gone to Nottingham, I stepped into her room to look for it. But how great was my Surprise I when I beheld, upon her table, a gold snuffbox, finely chased. What could' I think! I called Lucius j. he came, and, at first. Suggested every argument he could think of, to remove my Sui'picions: but comparing the pcffefiion of So valuable ashbx, with dorothea’s circumstances, and the manner in which she was recommended to me, he was induced to confirm the opinion 1 had conceived of her dishonesty We both concluded that I had carested an artful, abandoned, wretch;, upon which, a number of circumstances presently rose in our minds, that strengthened this heavy charge. Her box was instantly broke open, when, among other things, we found a crucifix Set with diamonds, and a chaplet of pearls, and a mass book in Lass

tm
\
i
t
i'
H
fr
IS
r
>.
i i.
IS
I
» ^
M
Mu’
d
1st V*'. r ♦ *
yst
I ■



n I
n
^!1 • CL
'll
1c.
I,
i;
;

■ h'
■ii:
Uh
I
I
■ih
S!
■8||
'i

’■i
if
'll
h
st
it
, t
■ a
': i:
:;
bif
: nl
224

tta and english.v
Lucius was enraged, ancj insifled, that she ought to Suffer the penalty of the law, and that he could neither excuse it to himstlf, nor to his country, to Screen her Siom jussice : Since, in that cafe, he should be answerable for the next robbery she coinmit 'fced. We both blessed the discovery we had
made, and did not at all question but she
>
waited for an opportunity to let in a gang of thieves, in the night, to rob, and perhaps,, murder us in our steep : and what constmied this Suspicion was, our presently hearing from, the Servants, that she had Several times been (ten to give stiver to Some shabby, ill looking kllows, who, under pretence of begging, fre cijicntly came to the door Thus prejudice, ivjadam, when once raised, is a, medium that changes the colour of objects, and shapes them to our fancy. Our fears being awaked, imagination is Set to work, to invent new Scenes of ideal horror. We then deal hi nothing but the gloomy and the dismal; we start at the rovings of our distempered minds; new dangers arise at every thought; we catch at every cfufe of diseontem, and anxious to swell the inward perturbation, search only for fresh grounds of uneasincfs. No wonder that the; objesl, tbatraises these horrid fensations, grows
eve ry
Fl L I CM T O Ch A R LOT T E.
2-2'5;
every moment more deformed. While wc view only the shades of the direful’charadler, we conclude the whole to be dark and odious;, virtue becomes affetstion, beauty a malk, and; every perfection hypocrisy, put on only to conceal Some deadly purpose. Thus, by a kind of contrast,, itself becomes more' deformed. From hence we precipitately concluded, that, as we had reafomto believe her a thief, she was a murderer too, and'regarded^ ourselves as viefiims to be Sacrificed to her ava rice. How frightful the thought I old Mr. Trueman was called'to give us Kis opinion;, when he advised us to send to the next justice’ for a warrant, to procure a cpnstable, and to Search the poor woman’s house, who had recommended her,.
Tiie warrant was Soon procuredi when? Lucius and I, with the good old man, attended the constable, to see if yve could find anything there, belonging to us. The old woman was terrified to the last degree. She was Surrounded with many conveniences,, which, a short time before, she was knchvn to
%
want, and Seemed raifedsinffome degrije, to at comfortable independence. From whence could this arise 3. but from her being a necesta —
. 1
3
III
f ‘
'ill liri

C
J.
i,
tdi J -: j
II -
lill
!'U
If
A
, I
i :
u
* 'll r ■
■■ah.
it
}'
, }. Hi
■it
fif
m
’[i
• •,
• ‘ I
I
, * I
■ r ■M
k
i
II
I
iii

’!!
i!
iil
II


226
Felicia t6 Charlottev
y instrument in dorothea’s crimes?
m
was the inference we drew from it. Mr.,
Trueman,, therefore. Secured her, and let her
\
know that she must not leave the house; but; she appeared more concerned' for her friend,., than herself: she would not hear of her beingi a thief: she ran on insher praises. At last, a.
a chest was found, and she readily acknowledged it was dorothea’s, and that she had the
It was, therefore, broke open, whem we found in it upwards of fifty guineas, some broad pieces, several very fine rings, a gold watch, wrapped up in. cottonj to prevent its being damaged: but what struck, me most,,, was a pair of diamond earrings. these II was perfuaded'i knew again; I was convinced that they were the same, which my father gave me, to keep in remembrance of ray dear mamma; and which .he had presented to her before' their mariiage. What could 1 say ?' I would not have lost them for ten, times their reas value. hadt not reason to be enraged? — T'o rob me of what she knew I deemed invar—
— what I pris’d on, my dear mother’s account — me, who had given her my esteem,, and my friendship, — me, who had raised her fi-om nothing — who had caressed her; who had: loaded, her with oblia; auons, and advanced her
M
Felicia to Charlotti;. 227*
altnostto the character of my companion : how ungrateful! and yet this robbery was, in alb probability, only a prelude to the mischiefi fly was to bring upon us.;.
thesej Madam, wete my reflections, and thus I vented aloud my resentment, while the poor woman terrified almost to death, cry’d, and, with nrtany sighs and tears, lamented the luin of a girl, who had been So kind a bene faistrefs; intermixing loud, and violent protestations of her own innocence..

After the Search was finished, ' the constable was ordered to keep the woman a prisoner, in her own house, till dorothea’s return,. when he was to take them to: aether before the * ihagistrate, who had granted the warrant.. Meanwhile we went home, and I, with a for --
V ^ ^
rowful aching heart, retired, with Lucius tb • talk over the affair, and to wait the return oii Dorothea.. Almost every (ervant in the house * their envy, by putteng the most invi d'ious construdiion upon her adfions, and had I been dispofed to listen to them, I verily believe they would never have ceased their in --
i^clives; all the mischief'that had been don
e
ina
>


'i '
I '
» ’ « » i
* I
st. ■; i
I' t
a)
1' 1
!|!
4;
ti
I?:
?:
I
; II
I
.{ • »
n
11
11
LI
b,
b
III
228
in the house would have been, by Some onc: r other, laid at her door, and she was, .indeed,, charged with Saaks of which I knew her entirely innocent.
We hat waited' about an hour for her return, when my chambermaid, told me that sher was conie home; that they had charged her wkh the faist, and that her very look, condeiim --. ed her. Lucius, gave immediate orders to. have her taken to the poor woman’s, and that, the constable should, carry them both before, the justice;, adding, that he would follow them immediately. This news was no foonci^ carried down, than we heard an extraordinary bustle, and;, upon, ringing the bell to know. vdiat was the matter, a Servant came to inform, us, that she had the impudence to difpute their master’s command, and refused to go till, she had Seen me. I then gave orders that she. should be brought up.. But I had hardly spoke the word, when she burr st open the door,, and ran into the room, attended by the cook maid, and another or two of the lower servants, who stopp’d at the door. She came «|) to me as if for protection, and stood trembling, pale, and out of breath:., in short, she,
bad lost her cap j her hair was in the utmost
disoidci:,,
I >

111
ll!
i,!
I
f
t
L
i
ftl

LI
I
Filicia to Charlotte;

./•
disorder, and her deaths almost torn from her. back. What an affedlng Sight! Lucius fecmi* ed shocked, and demanded what was the reason of their treating her in this manner, with, a tone of voice that Sufficiently expressed, hi, disapprobation. They laid the fault on her,, who would not let them take her away civilly,; when Lucius observing that they had no right to use violence without his. leave, and ordered, them sternly to withdraw, our thoughts were, turned upon, the single object, that, with a. look of terror, stood, panting before us. Indeed. Madam, my heart relented. Struck, with a. figure So moving, I could Scarcely refrain from, tears;, but the next moment, recolleding that she was a, thief, a vile hypocrite, who had abused my good nature, indignation again usurped. the place of pity.
After a short filfence, Lucius, with a stera voice, began. Thou wicked unhappy wretch.
Said he, don’t attempt to excuse and. palliate
your crimes; but, by an open confession, diff cover whom you have robbed, what were your intentions, and who are your accomplices.. This, I assure you, will be the only way to obtain mercy : for, upon these considerations, I jttow. promise, to make use of. all my inssuenco
Uk
II
M
P
iji
iijl
ll
L
i
L
II
df‘
m
II
iif
r 11
»
H
II
r 1 III

!
I!
i

O Sir! O I
f
ery’d
ifr your favour, she, iiiterrupting biin with an altured air > for
god’s felcc hear rne. Nou know not who I atm' — If I do not convince you that I am injured
'N

xtremcly irrjured, let me Suffer all that the kw can inffict, Let me tell you, Sir, that I neither afkr, nor desire mercy. — The innocent have no need of mercy. — Take care, — take
care of what you say, reply’d Lucius; I would
give a great deal to find you innocent; strong Circumstances! I wish with all my heart,, Said I, that you could prove your innocence,. but I am afraid that is impossible j such con vincina: proofs? and my eati^rings too! whav car*rings. Madam? returned she, without a blush : you will not Surely say, that I have stole your earrings. Yes, said Lucius, they were found in a tea chest that belongs to you: and i I have them here to produce before the magistrate.
1 •
It was observable that the terror, which at sttst, had all the Symptoms of guilt, wore off. every moment; and, indeed, fear and affright impress upon the countenance of the most innocent, marks which may be easiiy mistaken ■ for indications of the consdous wickedness of an abandoned mind. Slow absurd then is if, fpr people to pieteud to form a judgement, from >
Such.
|telicia to chari^tti.
sr^fi
Such equivocal appearances! she now, ver calmly, desired to See the earrings, Lucius took them out of a piece of paper, - and gave them into her hand, when, instead of the confusion, which I expelled to find in her countenance, she replied. So,. I find I am condemned for stealing what is my own. Yoiirs t' said I, amaz’d; you wilt not surely say that shefe ear lings are yours!; How could you, come by them? Besides, I dare fey they arcr mine. Why, girl, I could swear it. Hold,, hold. Madam,., feid she, are yoats lost then? Are they not in yourdteffing box? 1 have not;. So much as looked, I replied j however to convince you, I will look now, though I am persuaded it will be to no purppfe. 1 know them too well to be mistaken. Here 1 went for my, drelfjng box, and bringing it, with much difficulty, under my arm, opened it before her, when, to my entire confusion, the first thing I. see my eyes on, was the very eat iings I had; laid to her charge. 1 blush’d, and was sh, struck withjhe sight, thac I had not the power; to speak a word. Lucius, therefore, refumedi. Well, Dorothea, said fie, your innocence, in. this particular, is fufficientiy recommended :, how glad should we be, if it was possible for.
you to clear yourself ot the rest;. but how you,
could
\

i..


^'1
■\ I 'i;
•< t \
. I
I
11*
•j 1
1
I i
1
t, (
: !5 ^
ii • »
. 4 '

I
r
V
LI
^32: Felicia to ch^rlotte^
could come by^themj I cannot imagine: I am afraid not honestly. I should rejpice to find, that we have injured you, and would, in that cafe, make you all possible fatisfa£fion. But
first put yourself in a little order, Dorethea
your cap
— your cap, but, admitting you
innocent, which I must tell you, I much doubt of, a glass of wine may be necessary to raise your Spirits. She now looked in the glass,.
and blushing, began in a hurry, to stroke and tie up her long dishevelled locks, with all the eager concern of a mind that had no othcr objeist in view, but a regard for decency.:
telling me, at the same time, that the confcn oufnefs that she could clear herself, whenever she pleased, was a better Support to her Spirits, than all the wine in the world. Her cap; which, being fastened to her hair, hung low down her back, was presently put on, and by the confusion in her looks, and the readiness with which she dressed her head, pinned up the rents in her gown, and reduced herself into a mo’^e becoming figure, let us see that nothing but such an extraordinary perturbation of mind, as that she was in, when she ran into the room, could have made her So long inattentive to the decorums of her sex. When she had
finished, this talk, she began:
....,....
/ •
ir


fsli^ia to Charlotte.
ns
„ I AM now to appear in a very different charaffer from that, in which you have hitherto knowm me. I am obliged to throw off the disguise of a servant, and to reveal a Secret, which I would have gladly kept within my own breast, at least, for Some time longer. Your fufpiclons, I perceive arise stem your finding a few things of value,, in the pofleffioii of a servant, one whom you took into your house, under the appearance of indigence, and low birth. In order then to be restored to your favour, I have nothing more to do, but to convince you that I am born of a very honourable family, and that I may reasonably expel a fortune. Sufficient to entitle me to wear tbese objects of your suspicion. My father, who is now living, is a baronet, and enjoys a very plentiful estate in Lincolnshire; he was married to a lady of the Romish religion; and a mutual agreement was made ta prevent any future uneasiness, with regard to
i ^
education of their children, According to this agreement, my brother was educated a protestant, while I was brought up by my mo there in her own principles; but she dying about three years ago, I soon, too soon, felt the cf fe£ls of her loss. She was Icareely buried; when my religious liberties were invadm: niy
fiathec
1/
I


father confessor was forbid to come near me;

I was continually importuned with the follici
Cations of ministers, whom my religion made
it criminal for me to hear; my disregard of their instruffions was resented as the highest ai: of disobedience. And thus, by performing what rthought my duty, I incurred a father’s displeafure. If I stopped my ears to the arguments that were offered me, it was Said that I
I
reiolvtd to be dehf to the voice of trtistft They
bible— —
gave ms a noie — t durst not read it j they would read It to me, but it was unlawful for
me to hear them, and, therefore, I would not Suffer them, to do It; this was construed into'
©bstinaev. I durst not be so vain as to consult
my own ssiallow reason, when I did not know
but it might contradidl the infallible doditines of our holy church. I was now treated with:
extreme severity;; at last, wearied out by
my father’s, and my brother's, importunities.
I resolved to appear more tra<5lable, and even
went sofar, as sometimes to suffer myself to
be eonduvsed to the parish church, and to pre
tend, at least, that I was almost convinced :
but this piece of hypocrisy was soon punished;
it reached rny diredlor’sears; when, prompted
by a zeal for my Salvation, he, in my father’s
absence, got admission into the house, and gave
me
  235
a a very Severe le<sture, on the inlincerity ef my conducst; exhorted me to be stedsast, and confirmed me by abundance of pious arguments : but before he had done, my father, who had been Sent for by Somebody that Saw him in the house, and who had overheard' great part of his discourse, entered the room in a violent passion, threatened to Send the good man to gaol, and actually kicked him’ downstairs.
I WAS now treated with more Severity than ever, was locked up in my room, and never permitted to see any company, but Such as. were most difagreebre. A gentleman wasi introduced to me, and I was forced to receive his addresses; he was a zealous churchman, and So assiduous to please my father, that, in his presence, he Seldom spoke of anything but religion; and thus paying his court to him, instead ot me, made him not more his friend, than he made me bis enemy. A day was appointed, for my being married to the man in the world I had the greatest aversion to: what could I do? my prayers and.
entreaties were all to no purpose. I was drove to the last extremity, and had no other relburce,, but slight. I, therefore, one moonlight
/
i
• '

216 filicia TO Charlotte' '
night, when alt were in bed, disguised myself, and taking Some of my mother’s, and my own jewels, with the little money I had, putting it all, except five guineas, in a tea chest, made my escape out of the houle, by dropping out of the window, which was only one story high, and fled to the priest : but he not daring to conceal me, procured me a horse, and the Same night I Set out, hardly knowing where I went, and, the next day, reached this place before noon j when being very weary, I found a poor woman, to whom I told as much of my story at i thought necessary to raise her compafltion; to her I gave the horse, which I had before paid for; and, by her recommendation, I had the favour of being admitted into your house as a servant.
Our ftrrprife, Madam, exceeded all dc ffcription; we let her go on without interruption,
merely for vvant of words proper form our excuses. For my part, a number of circumstances, as she proceeded; arose in my mind, that confirmed every word she spoke, with the force of the most convincing evidence; the genteel air of her dress, her police unconstrained behaviour, on all occafigns.

  237
f)) ^
*. •
joined to an extensive knowledge of the works of many of the most polite authors,
I recollected that I had once heard her repeat a few lines from Tasso, and I had Some rea son to believe, that (he was a perfecl mistress, both of the French and Italian languages. She is a papist. — Her cxcufes for not joining in the family devotion, the frivolous pretences with which she always avoided reading to me any piece of religion — It was certainly So — stie must be a papist — I thought both Lucius and myself perfecl fools for not feeing thro’, and knowing her in this difguise, a disguise too thin to hide her character from the least difeerning eye. I looked at her person: :
was struck at the disorder of herdreft — fright
* '
disorder!! I see it without redoubled
I
.confusion?? restecled on the indignities she had Suffered — brutal indignities! A lady of fortune and distinction — my Superior — what Savage treatment! how much she was injured 1 What a bustle had we been making a bout nothing, only to show our ignorance, .and hasty passion! Lucius was justly confounded, aiid hung down his head. She was still standing. Pray, Madam, be Seated, Said I. She obey’d, and took a chair, and while
we
I
2^3
We were meditating an apology for our preposterous behaviour, she resumed.
A
I KNOW, Madam, that I pay my court ta Protestant, with a very ill grace, when i attempt to do it, by confessing myself a Catholic; but I know, however, that you will vindicate me from a crime, which you have tinjustly laid to my charge. I can, in this cafe, give such additional testimonies of my innocence, as to strike malice itself dumb. Much more shall I convince you, of whole goodness, and humanity, I have received a number of such pleasing .instances as I never shall forget. Yet as I am a Roman, you will, probably, join with my father, and while you preach to me of persecution and prgudice. Sufficiently show, like him, that you are capable of both. But do not. Sir, O do not, Madam, abuse the confidence I have reposed in you. don’t give me up to the resentment of my relations. No, ma <dam, cry’d Lucius, I will intermeddle in your affairs no farther than you are pleased
But what apology shall I make?
You have
lo approve. —
How shall I excuse ou" condu£l?
been used so ill, that it is a kind of folly to ash your pardon. Indeed, I am ashamed, and,

, V
 ’ 239
perfectly Sorry for my behaviour; and what
recompeiice is in our power to make you, freely demand it. I thank you, Sir, returned ihe, Smiling j there is really no reason at all for these apologies, I cannot help saying, that appearances were against me, and while you
thought me what I Seemed, you ought to have done what you did. — This is very generous.
Madam, said I, and the only return we can make, is to interest ourselves in your happiness. I thank you both, said she : but will you not then take part with my father? Do you promise to leave me, whilst I stay wdth you, to the free enjoyment of the only true religion? Yes, Madam, Lucius reply’d, I promise it to you very Sincerely. I am an enemy to persecution, and to every attempt to force the conscience, however mismsormed. A true protestant, from principle, hates all religious tyranny. He is, by profession, the friend of liberty, and ought, therefore, to check every unjust sally, that would lead him to violate it on the meanest obje^:. We allow of no in tjulfition. The man, who is a bigot, and yet disclaims infallibility, is a contradi<5lion to himself: a contradi6: ion! as great as any we can lay to your charge. We, believe me.
Madam, deal not in contradi^lion: ours is
\
the
24^

the religion of common sense; we alk not a
$
blind obedience : nor do we attempt, by (hutting the bible, and laying the understanding in fetters, to close the eyes, and the ears, to the voice of God. I, therefore, blame your father, and resolve to make use of all my power, to restore you to a perfect liberty; to awaken his affection, and, consequentlyi to give you a proper share in his fortune; and to do this only in concert with you. Meanwhile, make use of this house as your own. I Sincerely thank you. Said she, and shall readily embrace your offer. To be restored to my father’s affection, is, indeed, a blefllng equal to my highest ambition. To be restored to this, without wounding my constience!
I should have nothing more to wish for. O my heart! how it longs for the tender union! But the flattering hope is vain, vain indeed! how' shall I see him! with what indignation will he look upon his daughter, a fugitive, an alien, a wretch, in his opinion, deserving his utmost hatred. Methinks, I see him stand before me, and, with a stern and steady look, reproach and upbraid me, for the uneasinefs I had given him. Ah! Madam I added she, you have often found me in tears; you can
now no longer wonder at the cause!! — fear I
'mult

Felicia to
241
must still be happy — perhaps not : however, 1 Will hope the best. Here fly eijdeavoured to compose her looks, and wiping her eyes, which began to Swim! with tears, she resumed,. Well, I will, indulge the pleastng refleffion of embracing him, who was once the tenderest, tjiost kind, and obliging parent. As to my
f
fortune, that is already Secure, by the marriage Settlement: as the daughters were to be educated in my mother’s principles, they were to, postefs her jointure; and, as I am the only
daughter, it must all devolve to me, after my father’s dece'^e. How happy will your friendship be to me! how richly shall I be repaid for the short uneasinefs you have given me, if, by your means, I can live, with peace and pleasure, in my father’s house!!

I NOW thought it high time to let her Seej that I had the same Sentiments as Lucius. I gave her very affeiiionate testimonies of my friendship, mingled with apologies for the Severity of my treatment. I insisted that she should make use of niy deaths, and dress more Suitably to her birth and fortune. Lucius took this opportui’iity to send to the constable, and to desire him to leave our old neighbour at liberty '; and," after making him
Vol. II M a
242  '
la Small present for his trouble, and the poor woman a constderable one, as a recompense for the uneasiness we had given her, they both Seemed perfectly Satisfied.
4 «
I
We presently found, that the Servants, who had .treated the young lady So ill, in a character more .upon a level with theirs, had a£icd only from pride. They were all greatly offended at her not entering into their little cabals j at her not Seeming fond ..of their .company : they imagined that She thought herself above them, and, as (he was preferred before
* ‘‘A
them by me, they fuspecsted that 1 encouraged her self conceit, and, on this account, she was both envied, and hated : they, therefore, rejoiced to'fee her pulled down, and contributed
r
all they could to press her still lower. But now she was placed in a more exalted view, and no proper subject for their envy, there was a total change in their dispositions: her company, whenever it had been granted them, was an honour, that, in the refle<stion, tickled their vanity; she had conferred a sort of dignity on their station, and was the kindest, most obliging lady, and So humble, that she Seemed rather to be born a Servant like them, than a
baronet’s jdaughter.
What fine things are
birth

'  24j
birth and fortune I happy accomplishments! that can thus change our anions, even in those minute circumstances, that are altogether indifferent! -- -- But let me stop the current of
my reflections.
Twenty times, I believe, I have been obliged to break off, and as often have I resumed my subject.. am now very much indisposed, and shall, therefore, take this opportunity to conclude, and to affure your ladyship, that I am, and ever shall be,
your faithful friend,
Felicia Manly,
LETTER XLII
Can now. Madam, give you the condufi on of dorothea’s story. One morning, about a week after that day of uneasiness and unjust Suspicions, which I described in my last, the young lady came into my room, just at the time I was dressing, and insisted, with a good deal of gaiety, on performing her usual talk, which, however, I refused: but she staid till the Servant, who hast taken her office, was gone : “wheii, ‘ sitting down by me, dear Mam
2. dam.
M4

dam, Said she, did not you observe, that I a voided coming before Mr. Smith, the gentleman who was your cousm’s companion in his travels? I really knew him, at first sight. My father has a seat in Yorkshire, not far distant from his father’s. As the two old gentlemen are intimate friends, my brother and young Mr. Smith, whenever we chose to reside in that part of the country, were constant companions. His father frequently borough t him to our house, So that, though his person is considerably altered, it was impostible for me not to know him; All my fear was lest
I
he should discover me, under the disguifc I had astiimed. When he was here, I wished him a hundred times out of the house, and, while you were in the room with him, I was more than once, put to a terrible straight, by your sending for me, to bring in something you Vvfanted. I dreaded to see him, almost as much as.i should have done rny father. And, indeed, it appeared to me the same thing; for if he discovered me, he would certainly have made no Secret of the place and situation in which he found me. He was never here, but 1 was in the greatest uneasiness; and all the while he staid, I felt the most terrible palpitation of heart.
Now

245
Now I recolie<st the circumstance, k^adam, Said I, I could not help talcing notice or the many excuses you made, to avoid coming into the room; and I thought there was Some mystery in your behaviour, which I could
not comprehend. But I cannot help ohferv
%
ina:, that had 1 been so unfortunate as to have thought of this yesterday, I should have construed it greatly to your disadvantag^: and foolishly imagined, that it proceeded from a
eonscious guilt, and, perhaps, a fear of be
»
discovered by a person of the very family you had robbed of Such valuable effects. How blind are we! how easily hurried away by appearances! and how careful ought we to be in forming a judgement of others! I am now
glad — heartily glad, that I did not, by recol
\
ledfing this circumstance, increase ray own uneasinefs, and' your ill treatment. I never was so thoroughly convinced, ar I am at present, that even forgetfulness, amongst our o there im, perfe6tions, .has its advantages. May I learn from this, to be ever cautious of cen sure, and afraid of judging the arstions of another! — But pray, Madam, proceed.
When Mr. Smith first came in with your cousin, continued she, T was so happy as not
t
/
M 3
24^
to be observed;; the moment I Saw him, and heard his voice, I hurried out of the room, and afterwards took all imaginable precaution to avoid his Seeing me. The last time be was here, I heard him in the hall. He was taking his leave, you were with him, and called me — I trembled, but. Soon recovering myself, slipped out of the back door un iioti(j|kl: when having taken a turn or two in the garden, I resolved to go into the wood, imagining that I might there, without danger of discovery, watch the moment of his departure : but the trees prevented me. I then attempted to cross the avenue, at Some distance from the house;; Setting off very Swiftly, ran against him with all my force. I staggered backwards, and recovered myself, just as he turned about, and looked full in my face.
1 was struck with confuflon — Miss Dorothea!
#
he cry’d; and, in a moment, as if rccolledl ing himself, I heard him add, as I flew before him to the other fide, I must be deceived! it can never be Dorothea! I could hear no more. I fancied he followed me. — Methought i heard the leaves rustle behind me. I did jiot stop till I was out of breath. My mind was agitated with my fears. The method I had taken to prevent a discovery, proved the
very

24;
very means of making myself known. I stood still— — listened. All was quiet. I reflected on what had pasted, when changing my purpose, I resolved to step back, to call him a stde from your cousin, and by an ingenuous confestion of the whole affair, to prevail upon him to keep my retreat a Secret from my father : but in this flutter of Spirits, So long was 1 in forming my resolution, and So many thoughts occurred both for and against my put ting it in pra<stice, that when I returned to the place, Mr. Smith and your cousm were al
Strange caprice of the
mind! notwithstanding the affright and eager haste with which I ran from him; stowly as I had moved to find him, and in spite of alt
the reluctance I felt in forcing myself to take
/
this step, : I now looked upon his being gone; as the greatest misfortune. I burst into tearsj and ....... —
most out of sight.

She was here interrupted by Lucius, who, coming into the room, told me that Mr. Smith was already returned, in company with an elderly gentlemanj to pay us the visit he had promised' at parting, and desiring that I would make haste to receive them, retired.
m4
Poor
N
/
» ’
/
I
\
9
3?
’A
A
/

248
fetreia TO Charlotte.
Poor Dorothea, who had revived every uneasy thought, by the confidence she had been placing in me, while thus unburtbening her mind, was liow, to all appearance, in a very unhappy situation. Her eyes were moistened with tears, when Lucius appeared, and gave a shock to her mind, by letting her know that this formidable Mr. Smith was returned, with a gentleman, whom she immediately concluded to he her father, the person she dreaded most to see. Lucius was no Sooner gone, than I beheld her Sunk back in her chair: her eyes were half clofed, and her countenance expressive of the most lively dis trefs. Struck with furprixe I ran to her relief,
and endeavoured to rouse her from this situa
✓
tion, by assuring her, that if she pleased, she should hot see mr. Smith; but she interrupted me, by crying, O my father! — my faber is in the house I I tried every method to comfort her, hnd, at last, after giving her the strongest assurances that I would use every argument to excuse and justify her, she began to moderate her uneasmefs,
I THEN left her, full of the thoughts of vindicating her to the utmost of my power; when, as I went through the passage, I found
that
I
/
Fflicia to Charlotte.
249
that she was not mistaken in her conje<stures, for, before I entered the room, I heard a voice cry. Believe me. Sir, I know enough of them, and their priests too : and damn her, if she had as much regard for her ©wn salvation
as I have for her -- -- -- Here T opened the
door, and, by the entrance, cut short this fine expression of his pious concern for the future welfare of his daughter. T hey rose up, and after the usual compliments, resumed their Seats, when Mr. Smith, giving me much the same account of his meeting with Dorothea, that she herself had just before done, let us know, that the improbability of its being real ly that lady, in Such a dress, and So far frorr^ home, made him imagine that he must have been mistaken; but the circumstance was so remarkable, that, when he arrived at his father’s, he could no more help mentioning it: to him, that he could the pleasure he had re teived from the conversation of a gentleman, that I was very well acquainted with, and whom he was proud to call his fi lend, Lucius, and I, smiled at this eomplinient, but as neither of us interrupted hinf), he proceeded to inform us, that his father, after ashing him abundance of questions about her, to which he could give no fatisfastory answer, at last:
5 told
\
/

250
told him, that she had left her father’s house, and had been missing near six months, and that he could do no Icfs, than coihmunicate what he heard to the person moffconcerned to know the place of her retirement. A letter accordingly sent to dorothea’s father, who came to learn the particulars from the young gentleman himself; aud he being desirous to see Mr. Manly again, proposed to condufl him to us. He concluded, with letting us know, that he was very glad she had been So wise, as to choose So honourable a retreat.
While we were at breakfast, the stranger gave us an account of his marriage with dorothea’s mother, related many family broils, that happened on the Icore of religion, and politics; complained of the disturbance he had met with from priests j that they had spoiled the best woman in the world, and'rob bed him of his daughter, by persuading the Saucy baggage to run away from him. From thence, he digrested to popish tyranny, to maf sacrer, and the tortures of inquisitions: : in favour of charity, with the rage of a bigot; reproached the papists for the want of it; and with all the intemperate heat, and
enthusiasm of party. Swore that, if he had
the
t
V
Felicia to Char lotte. 251
the power, he would not leave one of the bloody minded monsters alive.
I was both Surprised and shocked, and' could not help replying, with a Sneer, that he must certainly be a very great enemy to persecution; Since he should take Such a generous method of showing his love to mankind. To this he was going to reply, when Mr. Smith very refpedlfully put him in mind of his daughter, and Several of his late wife’s relations.
He immediately took the hint, and acknowledged, that he had gone too far. Said, that he loved his daughter better than she deserved: : having given her abundance of foul names, and nearly as many tender ones, as his resentment, or his affection, had the predominancy, strenuously destred to see the Saucy obstinate vagabond.
I don’t know, Madashj what idea you will form of the character of this gentleman, A man of distblute morals, standing up for the cause of religion and truth. He Swore and preached in a breath, and uttered his Sentiments with the positive assurance of a jesuit. his words were.di<fi.a, ted by his passions, which'
M 6 hurried

Filicia to Charlotte.
V -
/
hiirned him away with too much violence t Suffer him to be guided by the calmer di^latea of reaibn. And, indeed. So difficult was it to judge of his real character, that it was Some time before 1 knew whether I ought to rank him amongst men of fense, or perfedi brutes; though 1 was rather inclined to place him a monff the latter. But I was mistaken : he was really poffelted of many amiable qualities, joined to a tolerable share of sense, which lay in a manner dormant till the heat of his paffi ©n had fubsided.
As soon as he was Silent, I let him know that be should Speedily see his daughter j but that I thought it necessary to piepare both him and her for she interview. I then, without ceremony, began her history from the time I first knew her, related every circumstance of her behaviour, that could contribute to Set her charaffer in a fair light; described the Severe treatment she had met with, and concluded, with relating w hat had passed that morning, and the condition in which 1 had left her. I called her my friend, I reproached him, for endeavf u' ing to enssave her confeience, and mingled these reproaches with more bitter aes on myself, for my unjust suspicions.
When

Filicja TO Charlotti.'

When I began to Speak, I resolved to plead her cause, with all the art I was miftress of: but carried away by the importance of the occasion, I Soon lost Sight of art, I Spoke with the fervour of stienpship, and while I was describing the Scene of her diftress, which our rash
folly had involved her in, agush of involuntary tearsj which feenied to flow from my repentance, and his infensibility, railed the father in him to Such a degrees, as Seemed to render it difficult for him to contain himself
* - • ^ ' could not now be kept from Dorothea.
He confessed, that he had been more to blame than he had ever imagined: he would see his poor girl immediately. He loved her better than ever he did. And did she, cried he, behave So piudently? did she lay, she felt such tenderness for me — Did she not rather
tell you, f am a passionate Id fool? Well, she is good girl: and I am glad I have found her. Let her see me. Madam, let me see her, added he. I will see my poor dear daughter instantly.
He was now in a situation shat gave iiib the highest joy, I instantly arose, and ran upstairs, She was sitting in a melancholy,
thoughtful
/
254
thoughtful posture, and, as Soon as I entered the room, gave me a look that, at once, ex prested her fear and impatience; but her countenance began to brighten into cheerfulness, even before I had time to Speak. She ran towards me, to embrace me, while I had * only time to cry, Victory!! dear Dorothea; vi^ory I' I have conquered. I see it. Madam, said she, but how? by what means?
I have now no time to answer you, cry’d I, your father waits for you: he is Subdued, he is Softened, he longs to see you. Here, I took hold of her hand, and led her down, her colour changing at every step. When we entered the room, her father ran to her, clasp? CD her in his arms, and lavished upon her the most endearing expressions of kindness. It was purely the joy of a father, who had recovered a dearly beloved child, after it had been; by Some accident, lost, without the least mixture of reproach, or bitterness. Dorothea was stlent for Some time, and only expressed her joy by her tears: but, at last, pressing his hand, Do you; do you, dear Sir,
me.? cried she. He gave her. the
\
warmest assurances that he did, embraced her
again, took his chair, and made her Sit by himi
It.
feticia TO Charlotte.
^55
It is easy to conceive. Madam, that Lucius, and I, must have great delight in observing the happiness, to which we had So greatly contributed. For my part, I received many very engaging compliments from both father and daughter, with which Lucius Seemed more
pleased, than if they had been, paid to himselfi.
/•
/
Mr. Smith, I had observed', was extremely’ attentive to the praises I had bestowed on Dorothea; he was greatly affe<9: ed with her story;, and, for the rest of the diay,. Seemed to bear an uncommon share in the happy reconciliation. He observed all her motions, and me thought there was Something in hiis air, that expressed as much of she lover as the friend. For her part, she viewed" him without terror: he was no longer the formidable man, that
had filled her with Such dreadful apprehenfi
• \
ons and So far from having any inclination to run away,, she conversed with him, with all the freedom of an old acquaintance.
I AM strangely addicted to the writing of letters, which, I am afiaid, tyre you;, and for the future, I believe, 1 must be lest communicative, in der to belrfstroub[« iome.
r
Be pleased to present my compliments, ro his
lordship,

. V
/ *
25^
lordship, and be assured, that, whether my letters are long or short, I shall always be, as I am at present,
your Sincere,
and most asteistionate friend,

Felicia Manly

LETTER XLIIL
Dear Madam,
Your rallying. So agreably, an aiter» tion in one of my former letters, that rural Scenes are she most unfruitful of adventures, has So much the air of a compliment, that, ht)wever undeserved, I think I ought to thank you for it You may confi der dorothea’s story In what light you please;; Intel eft you are pleased to take in her good
'X
cr bad fortune, ought to induce me to send you the particulars, which are still behind. With' out any further preamble, therefore, 1 proceed.
» •
, Believe me, Madam, there is as great a shffcrence ftetween dorothea’s father, when angry, and when pieafed, as between any two
per So ns

persons upon earth; you would not even take him to be the same man; were is possible for you to have been an hour or two in, his company, after his reconciliation, even you mull have thought my last letter a vile flander on his character. So much do these furious paf sions distort the mind!

^sthe rest of the day was spent very agreeably, and, at the same time, nothing was omitted that could contribute to confirm the happiness of the amiable Dorothea. Lucius artfully introduced the fubjest of religious liberty, which he proved to the birthright of every reasonable being. He made use of the most convincing arguments. He quoted the incomparable Mr. locke’s piece on this fub je£l; a work, which he aftured us, was of more value than a Peruvian mine. A high price i must confess, Mr. Smith joined with Lucius to answer some obje<slions. He then represented persecution as arraigning the i nite sagacity of the sovereign creator of all things, who, to make room for heaven borft charity, had wisely given such a variety of tastes, degrees of capacity and understanding, to the mind of man, from whence result the

* Letter on Toleratien.
2c8

love of truth', and the test of every kind and benevolent affection. Uniformity of Sentiment, Madam, is, I find, in his opinion, na more desirable, than the dull uniform pro ^e^ of a Smooth, and wide ftretehed, plain j or rather a large tract of barren Sand, where no interrupting (hades, none of the blooming beauties, that arise from the varied tints of trees, of (hrubs, of turfs, of flowers; diversify the enlivening prospe^ : whilst charity, amidst the greatest variety of tempers, educations, and capacities, like the invigorating power of the fiin, presents the most lovely Scene, and gives life, and Spirit, and beauty, to all/around: mutual complacency, and benevolence, breathe an eternal Ipring, and, at once, bloltom, bear fruit, and yield a friendly shade..
V
. V
Methinks I hear him still, and'still see the blaze of humanity darting from his eyes; when he added. With this view, do I look upon my native country, the seat of liberty, and her fistcr*« earthly throne. In this view let us regard the whole world. The honest Turk shall be my friend; the Sober faithful chinese, that lays the divine Confucius to his heart, and the Indian of either world, blessed
with
Fslicia to charlotts.
with simple innocence, and native truth, shall be my brothers. Wherever I find a marl who loves his God, and loves mankind, I will hug him to my breast.
Here Lucius paused a while, and then. Smiling, asked Dorothea, what she thought of this rant. Am I hot, Madam, Said he, in the right; is not this a very desirable disposition of mind? She gave her approbation, on which he replied. Then what must you think of Popery, with her Smooth uniformity of barren Sands, which, blown with the baleful wind of persecution, arise in curling torrents, and Spread ruin, and deftru6tion, over all the wide creation. Nor can the storm be laid, till showers of blood, pouring from honest hearts, beat down the dull, and, for a time, hush the wild uproar to a calm.

C
Forgive me, Madam, added Lucius, Seeing her bite her lips, I do but just touch on a fubjetst, which, if dressed in plainer language, would, I am Sure, wound your tender heart. Persecution, whether in Papist or Protestant, is a tempest railed by the breath of hell. And, believe me, if there can be a
Christian
\

260

Christian without humanity and yil may be a Saint.
adc
Mr, Smith, who appeared not a little delighted with lucius’s flights, and who, doubtless, comprehended hts motive for introducing this jubjedh, took care to keep it up for Some time longer. He entered upon the eause of liberty as connected with a free inquiry, and showed the necessity of making use of reason, in order to discover truth from error. He wais seconded by dorothea’s father, and Lucius dosed their observations, by giving a slight glance at the principal systems of religion, throughout the world. The various pretences to in
fellibility
confldered and exposed in all :
the folly of fuatering the conscience to be en staved, by the Dervife, or the Christian priest, proved equally ridiculous; and the impossibility of discovering truth fi-om error, where no inquiry, was made, as great in the zealot of R ome and London, as in that of Turkey, or Siam.
These fufejedls, Madam, were managed
with Such delicacy, that it was impoflvble, for
even Dorothea, to be offended. She Seemed
to listen with pleasure : and, when it was done.
Said,

61
Said, with a Smile, that they bad inspired her with a love of truth, and that, though sly waa very Sure she should be a Catholic as long as she lived, yet, for the future, she would be one upon rational principles, and boldly venture to study the truth of her religion, and to read even those pieces, with care, that had been wrote against it.
Mr. Smith received this declaration with as great an appearance of pleasure, as even her father himself— — nothing was omitted that could confirm this agreeable difposition.
You perceive,! dare (ay, the tedious dullness into which I am Sinking, My spirits, indeed, begin to flag. I will, therefore, hasten to a conclusion, lest a more interesting subject should intervene, and demand my pen.
N
The rest of our conversation was little more than chit-chat. Dorothea had many <^uestions to ask, concerning her friends in the •country, some of whom were dead, and some were married; and these, though they furnished not the least kind of amusemeni to us, as sheir very names were unknown, engaged almost
*• * _

most her whole attention fr the little time ihe had to stay.
THE next morning, I had the mortification of taking leave of Dorothea, whose father would not be prevailed upon to stay any longer. We parted with many reciprocal expref sions of affe£lion. But, to the no Small surprise of Lucius, Mr. Smith, who, at their first meeting, of his own accord., had proposed to stay with us, at least, a week, resolved to accompany them, nor could we, by all the arguments in our power, induce him to keep his word.
I HAVE only one word more to add: yes terday it was a month since they left us, and we have, this minute, received a letter from Mr. Smith, in which he informs us, that what Severity and restraint could not do, mildness and freedom have accomplished; that the amiable Dorothea is already a Protestant, and that he hopes for the happiness of Speedily pof seffing the lovely convert.

V
\
Felicia to Charlotti* 2^3
It is with great difficulty that I have been able to write thus far; I am really very ill,
but as much as ever
*
Your ladyship’s
aifetstionate
\
Felicia Manlt,
LETTER XLIV
HAVE now, Madam, the pleasure of informing you, that we have another person added to the family j you, I am Sure, will be glad to find that I am able to tell you foi am now a mother, in the flrideft sense, and was happily brought ito bed three weeks ago,
O mv friend! how delightfully does the’ mind glow with gratitude, thus rising from' the struggle of convulsive pangs, from the languor of expiring life! The dear helplcft infant too, the subjest of our future care, and future joy! With what new, what tender fen sations, do we view the little gift of nature, entrusted to our proteilion! Methought a beam of heavenly comfort shot thro’ my soul! «afe, joy — transporting joy, and mingled fondness:

/
264
'• K ■
nefs: all delight, extasy, and love! My heart overflowed at once with gratitude,, and the Softest maternal affe^lior^.;
%
'.* ^
Before the first week was over, I began to be alarmed, lest my fondness for my affection for my girl; I told my fears to Marilla, who was constantly with me, and desired that 1 might have her brought to me every day: and while I endeavour to divide my heart be twe^en them both, the pretty creature, by twenty winning ways, stems to strive to hold fast my affedfions. — — My fears. Madam, were groundless, I must love her : and I am really glad that my affections So easily correspond with my duty.
Afrer this rambling incoherent letter, you will not wonder, if I tell you that, though I am as well as can be expected, my head is still very weak : indeed my eyes fail me, and L am forced to conclude. May every bleifing attend ypu.
I am, ^
Yours, c.
Felicia Manly.
LET
  265
LETTER XLW
Dear Madam,
T was with extreme concern that I read your last letter. Indeed, I fineerely Sympathise in your affliilion. I don’t wonder that the Sudden death of a person. So dear to you as his lordship was, should damp all your Spirits, and make the most Sprightly pen that ever
Wfcte, deal in the most Solemn and awful truths. Sickness, pain, and death, have, indeed, a natural tendency to check the Sallies of a gay disposition; to call back the thoughts from the pleasurable amusements, the vain per suits of life, and, for a while, to confine them to the more importont review of our ov/n coii du(st: they are bitter medicines, but Such as have the most healing virtues — virtues adapted to strengthen, improve, and exalt the mind. To be forced to take a final leave of that form we love; to bid a long adieu to the Spirit, with whom we have daily conversed with pleasmg intercourse— — very hard; the sensible heartstrings must feel the dreadful rent, the dis
Biit, O The
trefsful mind is torn with anguish. Madam, why do you say for ever?
separation is not surely for ever
Vol. II N
Soon you will
see
t2.66
see him in a more lovely form. Soon the wdl known mind, clothed with heavenly radiance, will congratulate your arrival on the blissful shore— — do you complain that “he is now a fenfeless: lump of clay ?” Mistake not the obje61: of your affection, he is all
life, and alive Spirit, li^hofe shining virtues
/
that, while yotu enumerate them, seem to add - to your grief, and which, you tell me, will ever renew your Sorrow ought to be the pleasing Source of: joy. Though, you lament his loss, lament not his exaltation, nor derive your tears from the yery subject of his felicity. He is in the land of virtue j its native clime. How often
do you repeat the words poor dear man and
/
, dwell on sounds expressive only of pity! Pity, Madam., is not for angris. It is you alone .who is the Sufferer. O could you but be fensibie, of his happiness, extaty and trapsporting rapture would dry up your tears. ■‘would you wish him back? Would .you have him, to plcase you, leave the seats of bliss, and ex .change the regions, of unfading felicity, for a world of.lln, transient happiness, intermingled with pain and trouble? No; this you cannot wish. ‘^but he was happy too soon— — soon his pain and Sorrow, and dangerous state, f trial, were at an. end. Yqu would have
, pns

prolonged his misery. If this be love, what is hatred? -
O MY dear friend! recollefl yourself, and, jul’d with a generous and refined devotion, re pose your mind on God; endeavour to lose the fense of your own private apparent loss, in the delightful contemplation of his tranfeen dent goodness. Repose yourself on his Sovereign will, whole determinations are always Safest, wisest, best. Let every dewy tear be wiped away, by the happincss of him you love. Love him still, but be disinterested in your af fe<stion; imitate and rejoice in his virtues; and while you dwell with pleasure on his felicity.
• •
anticipate yoyr own
\
Death's but a path that muji be trod. If man would ever pafs to God ’,
A port of calms, a flats of ease.
From the rough rage of fvoelling seas. Nor can the parted body know.
Nor wants the soul t heje forms of woe. As men who long in prijon dwell.
With lamps that glitter round the cell, Whene'r their faffing years are run. Spring forth to greet the glitfring fun;
N 2
Such
/
-2^8 Felicia to gharlcwg;
Such joysj though Jar trfnfcendlngjenfi^ Have pious souls at parting hence.
On earthy and in the body plac’d,
A few and evil years they wajle:
But whin their chains are cajl aftde.
See the gay scene unfolding wide.
Clap the glad wing, and idw’r away.
And mingle with, the blaze of day.
farnelt.
With the most tender sympathy and com iniscration, believe me to be,
(dear Madam,
Your ladyshjp’s most affedlionate friend,
Feljcia Manly.
., I III I. !y
L E T T E R XLVJ.
Dear Madam,
O W great is the nower of friei
1
With one dash of your pen you involve me in grief, and oblige me, by an irrcsiftible force, to taste the bitterness of y^ur Sorrovy : with the, next you inspire me with ten thou farid sensations, all of them agreeable, all ^de
n^thing in, the world, Madam,
xould
lightful.

ltcia TO Charlotte.
26^
/
% ^ c^uld gstfe’lucius and me greater pleasure,
than your proposal to honour us with your
company— — do I say? my friendfltip
is offended at the compliment, and would let
you know that vanity has no share in our fa
tisfaistion. We' heartily embrace your offer,
and nothing shall be wanting, on oun part,
to make your residence with us perfe6ily shap'
py
But have" yuu, indeed, the resolution so leave the delights of the gay circle, the glittering Splendour of conspicuous greatness?? you really have the courage to hid adieu to pomp, and all the parade of ostentation and vanity, the dear delighr of a thousand fine ladies, and, in their opinion, the Summit of all human happiness?? you forsake the residence of polite flattery and compliment, to dwell with ffmpletruth, and Sincere friendship? and the important Irurry of aiten^g on the rrlodes and^forras of greatness, for perfeef li serty, and a life gliding on in the clear fmootk stream of fural peace ?'
O Madam! how m’any dclrghtful ideas rush upon my mindi^ upon the prospect of Such an addition to ouf little friendly circle? Your
N 3
enlivening
£70
enlivening wit, tempered with Sober conter?i plation^ will heighten all the other blessings I enjoy. Ever Since I have received ycur letter — the most welcome letter L ever received — my imagination has been filled with the most pleasing images, nor can I divert it from
the fiattering subjest. with
I have already rambled
you, in idea, along my most favourite walks, and have Sallied out with you to taste
— But whi
1 beg
the fragrant breath of the morning. — there does my roving fancy carry me? pardon, Madam, for thus amusing you with idle visions; but friendstiip would have it So, and i only obeyed its didlates.
We had, yesterday, a piece of news that struck us with an uncommon surprise. My father, Mr. Manly I mean, received a letter from Holland, which informed him, that his brother, who had parted from him in disgust about twenty vears a2; o, and who had never
j j O ^
Seen him Since, was dead, and had left him, in money' and efiects, to the value of forty thousand pounds.
Lucius and 1 happened to be present at the receipt of this letter, which immediately opened a very affecting Scene, It was read by
my
ltcia'to Charlotte. 271
rfvtathcr, with a composure of countenance, which "voulci not even suffer u? ro guess at the ctinfents: He had no Sooner run it over, than giving sophronia 'a' most affe£iionate look, My dear, Said he, you have ben a witness of rhy extravagance and folly, and it is now in m power to let you See that rny repentance is re, and that no change of fortune can
make me relapse into the wild pursuits of vice. It isonlv Since mv distresses that I have known
J J
what it is to live: ssnce that time my hap piness has been centred in you, and my family : to make you happy forms the most plea fing part of nry lifcj and it will ever do ft“ “alone dsferves the name of life. O my dear, your virtues have fixed me yours for ever: j here find that my brother is deadi I thought he had been long dead. He died a bachelor, and has left me all his effects. Had this happened Some years ago, I had been still, what I now blush to think that X ever V Here thb' tears stood in

eyes; Ke was landing, and my mother was Seated before
hiflj. His looks and' expressions, joinc‘d''lo
her Surprise, had hitherto ke pt her motionless
; but she Was now unable to contain her
elf and longer; she Suddenly arose, snd
«
threw her arms about his neck. 'He erabrac
n4
ed
272

CD her — he pressed her to his heart, crying, N, my Sophronia, my vices (hall never more disturb the quiet of this dear breast. She begged him not to mention the name of vice : told him that his affection was all that was necessary to make her happy; and that was wealth cjiough, and of more importance to her, than all the riches in the world: and that with such a husband, and such children, (he had, for a good while past, thought herself thg happiest woman in England.
\
At the word children., she cast an affe6fi onate look at Lucius, Marilla, and me. At lead my heart was willing to rank me among the number of those, from whole tenderness
Ihe derived So much of her fat is faction. But
/
the mcrnent she observed me, she withdrew her arms, and Seeming to struggle with her tender ness, stepped back, and again Seated herself in her chair.
jv'iy father, at the Same time, turned to Lusus and Marilla, called them his dear,, his viituous children, and Lucius, in particular, his benefadior and his friend, and added somc thiig about gratitude, which Lucius could not fuffet. Dear Sir, Said he, forbear thcse moving

^73
ing expressions of your goodness. For heaven’s sake talk not of gratitude to me. What must I be, if I could hear, with patience, such Ian * guage from a father — a tender, and affedlion ate father. I know you love me; then why do you make use of words that shock my love to you, and which both nature and duty forbid my hearing?
My father made no reply, but Saluted Ma
riila and me; and, after giving me Some paiti cular expressions of affe£hon, vve all took ciur seats, when giving the letter to Lucius, he de sired him to read it, which he had no Sooner done, than the conversation turned upon the particulars.
One who resse£l; S - on the misfortunes of this family, would be apt to conceive, that Such a Sudden and unexpedied change in their Situation, must have occastoned the most extravagant transports of joy; and, it he had only a superficial knowledge of human natare, that my father’s behaviour; was extremely natural. marista’s eyes, indeed, fprarkledl with a peculiar pleasure: and i cociu not Iieip expressing a lively fiitisfacirion, from comio"; ins that Lucius would nov; caln from nif tans

there
274  ,
there an equivalent to what he had acquired from mine : and thus, being placed more upon a level, as to circumstances, approve my father’s condu6f, to the most avaricious of his friends. The day was Spent with rather more gravity than usual. But the want of mirth was Supplied by the Sweet complacency of friendly hearts, exulting with exquisite joy in thehap pinefs of each other; while the composure and equanimity of mind, which appeared in those most concerned, still heightened the opinion I had conceived of their characters.
I OUGHT, Madam, to have told you, that the occasion of our visit at my father’s, was to see our daughter; the dear sweet creature is very much indisposed, and the doctor informs us, that her disorder will nd in the smallpox.
Let me speedily know, kow long it will
be, before I shall have the pleasure of telling you, in person, how much I am
your affectionate friend,
Felicia Manly,
%
».
L E T
‘"S
, L
♦
Felicia to'charlotte. 275
/
V E T T E R -
Dear Madam, '
O W are the Sweets of life interming« Jed with bitterness! My poor dear girl has now left the world, and gone to the regt one of Spotlefs innocence and peace 1 had almost Said, that innocence itself is dead, and fled to its native skies— — little Son'occurs to my thoughts, and I retral the expression, ' Tloat opening mind, which every day received new ideas, now Seels the full blaze of truth, and, perhaps, would look, with contempt, on the boasted knowledge of mortals. Her pretty laugh, the innocent lisp of her half form’d Sentences, when, with little Sportive arts, (h strove to court my Smiles, are ever lost to
Oh, why did I let her take Such hold of my heart! How vain were my fears Itst I stiould not love her as 1 aught! Cut yet, me, had I loved her lest — I cannot think

/
of that neither — I would not love her less. But she is happy, pretty lovely cherub! she isshappy; for ever free from vice, stem care, and pain, and Sorrow.
n6'
27^
Felicia to Charlotti.
She was Seized with the Smallpox, as th physician had foretold; a painful, and a loathsome disease!! affe£hon, and the sense of my duty, compelled me to see her — I Saw her every day. But, O Madam I how was the sense of her loss Swallowed up, by my solicitude for my Son, who was Seized with the Same distemper about twenty-four hours before she died. O my heart I what did I feel! I blamed my rashness— — as if my duty and affection had been a crime, reproached rayfelf for what deserved no reproach. With a noble fortitude, Lucius endeavoured to cheasf my Spirits, and to raise my hopes. He talked of resignation, and of providence; and felt himself the resignation he would inspire. At first the talk was hard, but Soon the healing balm ran through my Soul — he ended, and ast within was peace. Every favourable Symptom soon appeared, and with them Soothing hope. In short, he grew past danger — he recovered, and my grief was lost in joy.
I
In my stresent Situation, while I confider together the loss of a child, that 1 loved almost as much as if nature had bid me love, and the recovery of another, whom maternal affection had intwined about my heart, my mind enjoys
all
Fflicia to Charlotte
27^
all the united force of Serenity, resignation, and thankfulncfs. I confider my dear infant, as left below for future usefulness, to be the delight of his family, and a blessing to mankind; Spared, that he may rise to high attainments in virtue, to perpetuate bis name, and th benevolence that glows in his father’s breast, when his father,, and your Felicia, shall be here no more; and, in short, as Spared to give him room to obtain those more glorious, mor exquisite, more refined delights, in the world of bliss, to which the negative goodness o helpless infancy can hardly be supposed to be entitled.
You see,. Madam, thati in this plain, I have left titles, grandeur, and shining posts of honour, to be struggled for by the busy world. May virtue be the glory of my Son, I am anxious for no other dignities; may the doing good be his employment, his post f honour. O call not this humility, it is a pride of the noblest kind. These are the flattering hopes that Swell a mother’s breast, and may they be the presage of blessings, stretched out to the farthest limits of time; while a Manly, with
all the virtues of my Lucius, shall in succession arise in every age, with calm benevolence
to
27 S

fblicli^ TO chawotte.
to meditate on happiness, and diffuse its influence all around. O how my heart beats with the great idea I — My child is this moment brought to me: with what elevated tenderness do I look upon him! I give him the breast he
longs for, I press him to my bosom, and write again.
May these lips, that now draw thy Sufle.* nance from me, be ever the fountain of truth, ever pure in their expressions, and strangers to the wanton’s'kifs : may the joys of innocence, and as much peace as mortals can know, always dwell within this little heart: and when this' heart Shall melt with foftness for Some lovely maid, may she return, with purity, thy flame,
and render all thy happiness complete! - '
me! what nonsense I am writing, with my child in my lap! But I attempt, in vain, to lose Sight of the jubjeil:, and, I hope, the candour of friendship will bear with the workino s
O
of maternal astedlion.
Lucius is now engaged in an employment, that you will doabtlefs imagine to be extremely visionary. He is studying the history of man, from his most early infancy. And as his Son
is much too young to express his ideas in any
other
Blessed

279
aether way, but by the traces of his countenance, and by inarticulate sounds, he examines these with a particular attention, in ori

der to discover the strength of his perceptions, and the progress of his ideas. This employment is extremely Suitable to his philosophic turn of mind. T hough I must confess, that it Sometimes makes me laugh, to see the assiduous care with which he endeavours to trace the impressions made on the little features of a face, which nature has scarcely finished, but which, however, fussiciently describe wonder, pleasure, and pain. From this study Lucius proposes to derive the greatest advantages: he will have an early knowledge of a heart, in the happiness of which he is most nearly concerned; and by this discover the degrees and bent of the passions, the strength of the moral taste, and determine, with the greatest evidence, this important truth, whether there are any seeds of vice implanted in the heart. A docstrine contended for by many learned and
good men, with as much heat and zeal, as if
vice
* The reader may find a ooncife and excellent liiltory of the understanding, and the passions, in the Preceptor, Vol. If. Book i. sc(5t. r. A performance that the editor fears to commend, lest he feouu injure u byjtiu praise.
So

vice was the highest gloryy and perfedioii^or human nature.
So assiduous is he already in this talk, that he has even interfered in my choiee of a nur sery maid, and prevailed upon me to make this office worth the attendance of a person of Solidity and understanding, one of a tolerable education, and of a Sober reputable family. And this was the more necessary, as she is o bliged to deviate from the common pravslice, and to regulate her actions by his, or my di reflions, in the minutest particulars. He is Such a friend to nature, that he will not fuster her to be constrained j the body must not be bound up with rollers, nor Smothered with the heat of flannel, be uscd with a mistaken ddicacy, and too closely preserved from the rnency of the weather. But I must not to particulars. Only this I shall lay, he is So unfeshionably polite, as to consider the mother’s Stickling her own child, as one of the ihdifpensible obligations of nature; as a duty that can never be transferred to another, except in a cafe of the utmost necessity : and, indeed, had I been as averse to conviction upon this head, as the gay fine lady at court, I must have either reaouiktd all prg
tensicns
in'dr:
in

  28r
tensions to reason, or Suffered myself to owre the force of his arguments.
j
t
But his first study is to cultivate the understanding, or, as^mr. Thompson expresses it,
4
T teach the young idea how to Jhooty
the noblest employment that can exercise the
attention of a reasonable being! an employment that, however, must, at present, be confined within a narrow compass j Since, for sometime, it can only consist in preserving the confused undistinguishing capacity of infancy from receiving bad impressions : and here the care ought, in his opinion, to begin with life itself. The tender brain must not be disturbed, nor the mind, in its first exertions, be started by loud or Su, 'den noises, This care
increases in proportion as the mind enlarges; ajid as it still continues capable ofsrepeiving impressions from objects of terror, iheffe must still be industrioussy excluded. About a month ago, when we were at my father’s, Lucius was very much rustled at finding his daughter afraid of the dark. He was certain that, pardon the impropriety of the expression! an 6bje<st that had So frequently occurred, and which must
have


28.

TICIA TO charbotte.
■fiiii to the child, could never
n ac!
!U !j
ot its mind been taught'
o
iie unnatural and terrify
have be excite Su: to connedl
ing Ideas Thhi was, in the esteem of Lucius,
an affair of great importance : he Searched into the cause, and found that one of the Servants had frightened the pretty creature, with * threats of Tom Datk, and other words, which? to children are of direful Sound, Would you believe it. Madam? for this cause alone, he ' prevailed on his mother to turn away the poor ' girl. I confess that I was So struck with this, that I could not forbear telling hlm> that thought he behaved in a very arbitrary and * cruel manner: when, in justification of his • conduct, he ran to his lister’s closet, fetched a -
volume of ihc and Tead, before all
the Servants, a performance on that very subject, that struck me dumb; However, he had > no objection to my providing for the girl, till *' I could get her another place: and, ' in return * for this civility, she has had the ingratitude, and the impudence, to raise a report, that Lucius had this child by me, before our marriage. But, in the country, no vice is indulg’d ‘ with shell a keen relish as Hander.
US.
.. t

28^2
Lucius has been very careful in his remarks on the Several ways, by which the mind of infancy is industriously impressed with the most hateful extremes of all the passions felfiihnefs, pride, revenge, insolence, avarice, cruelty, and in (hort all the vices which Spring up in after life; when the mind is ruined, without design, and the heart in Sport taught to be vicious before the tongue can Speak, and all the tender sensibilities of humanity are utterly perverted. Against these methods of corruption he proposes to be ever on his guard,
f
because traces So early made are Seldom perfectly erased: : indeed, this kind of treatment ought more to be avoided, as it is infinitely more fatal in its consequences, than all the distempers that can affecl the bodily health.
This, Madam, though of prodigious importance, is only a negative kind of education.
But, to implant a love of truth, and a thirst after knowledge, to teach the young understanding to exert its powers; to refine, to elevate,
to *
* See some hints of these methods of corruption in the note to p. 40 and 41, Vol. I. which the reader may easily enlarge, from his own observations en the conduct of parents, nurses, c
284 Felicia to charlottso
^ ■>.
to enlarge the' ideas, and to lead the eager
^ i * ' ''
admiring by the sweet allurements of'
*4 ^ ^
pleasure, toi^ste highest attainments in virtue, to rc^htude of rriannersj to rejoice early in his immortality, and to anticipate the divine delights of heaven, by a disinterested love for' mankind j a love widely extended, and ever prompting to atsts of beneficence and diffusive goodness: this is an employment as noble, as the attainment is godlike and to this does Lucius already raise his ideas j this he ccn fidcrs as the previous study, .the earlist exercise of childhood. He proposes to dtess up morality, and the sublimest truths of natural religion, in the easy language of infancy, and by degrees to pour in more and more light as the"
understanding enlarges, and the mind grows more and more capacious; and by encouraging the restless curiosity natural to children, -. give incestant employment for the rational faculties. He considers Englisti, ^. as the most important of all the languages to an englifh man. His child, he says, shall study all its ^ beauties, learn to read with a grace, and if ' ^ollible to write with - elegance, to adapt his
lan '
* something of’ this kind is already attempteif' {in the Christmas Box,, two small volumes printed: for the ttfe ofchildrca, --


'Fbltcia t, o Charlotte.' 2^85
language to his Sentiments, and to express his thoughts with ease and fluency; to form his style, and to settle his judgement, dsy a care fulattention to the works of the most celebrated English authors j be taught to point out their beauties, to comment on the noble Sentiment, to relish, even to rapture, the tender beauties of Spencer, the lightning of Shakelpeare, .and the shining glory of'milton.
The languages he confiders only as the key to further knowledge, and not knowledge itself: these, even in the midst of study, he would render subservient to his grand design, and make the dry talk of words delightful, by a continual acquisition of agreeable sensations, and improved ideas. He would please himself with hearing the v#ke osunprejudiced nature, a mind unbiassed with the forms of thinking which prevail amongst mankind, decide in what consists the merit of Such and Such an a£lion; he would hear the tongue of innocence explain the glory or infamy of an Alexander, a Trajan, eradomitian; he would cherish.and fix the just Sentiment, would improve the random thought, and, where she judgement failed, would Set it right. How de
sightculmust shis exercise of she faculties be to
a
 '
a child! To be led by its own refle<stioiis to a constant Series of new ideas — how manly, how rational the entertainment! It must inspire the mind with a continual Spring of self complacency, and make the most rugged steps to learning pleasaht. Lucjus would endeavour to
obtain the assistance of Some decay’d gentleman, adorned, at once, with piety, good nature, learning, a knowledge of mankind, and ^ free and genteel address, A person of this ch^ra^ler must he the tutor of his Son, and share with him in the important talk; he must live in the family, and in all respects be treated like a gentleman and a friend. Learning will thus be made a high entertainment, especially as it will be varied, at proper intervals, by the history and constitution of our own country. Under their condikst, the aspiring youth must improve in knowledge and understanding, must be introduced early into life, emboldened, encouraged to Speak, and to "bear a part in the most polite conversation, at an age when learning generally consists in mere Sounds, and pleasure in vanity and folly: and, while a youth, we shall have the rational delight of feeing our child a man, a friend, a companion.
I AM
.dflibta TO chartotte.'
* • ‘ '
I AM prepared to hear you laugh at me, and
(€xpres^ your surprise, that, not
'the great unce. taintyof life, I can thus launch iinto futurity j talk of embelishing a mind yet .incapable of fixed ideas, and from an infant of two months old, by the strength of imagina t tion, draw a line paiallel to that of time, and r reckon our duration by that of the Sun and, moon. But blame me as much as you please, I Some of the Sweetest comforts of life depend on expe^lation; and was it not for hope, which recreates the, mir with distant prof, pe£ls of pleasure, our very enjoyments would be apt to Batten, and life itself grow dull, and insipid. But itis not only a remedy, for the vapours, and the most effectual cure for the rest icfs mind; it is a cordial comfort to the distressed,
and'joy to. the. miserable.
#
Education, Madam, is a daily topic of discourfe, a subjest to us the most interesting.; can my friend then think it impertinent? But jf it appear so now, as you will Soon be a mother, you will Soon be convinced of its importance. Lucius is now so fond of it, that he talks of little elfe; he is continually quoting
; to me the best authors on the fubje^, and from these I. have colktsted my ideas, which.

>
t
sis
28s  '
»
as they are ever present to my mind, I should have found Some difficulty to suppress.
Hasten, dear Mndara, by your presence, he happiness of
your affe<stionate
Felicia Manly.

LETTER xlviir.
ttow tedious is time, when his wings 1- are loaded with expedlation? My last, 1 Imagined, would have concluded our epistolary correspondence, at least for fomc years. 1 propoied to throw astde my pen, to hid an eternal adieu to tedious narrations, high st^hts, rapturous nonsenfe, and long letters; but the very morning in which we were preparing to fet out to meet you, with an alacrity inspired by our joy, to be disappointed with a fortnight’s delay, what a damp did it give to my Spirits! I could hardly meet with a greater disappointment. Let me have no more of your letters, Madam., I beseech you. A sort ight! fifteen days! — indeed it Is quite into
Wf
lerable*
Felicia
Charlotte.
289
We have had a very diverting account from my lifter Marilla, of a most Singular courtftiip. My wife cousin, it Seems, has had the misfortune to fall desperately in love with that engaging lady. The mighty wound was given at our house; but he had not there the power to make it known : he waited.dr a more favourable opportunity, which he had the penetration to foresee might Soon arri\'e: and, therefore, recommending himself as the best coachman in the yniverfe, he earnestly begged, that she would do him the honour, to suffer him to drive her home in her chaise. She readily consented to the proposal, and he, perhaps, drawing a favourable conclusion from her easy compliance, was all life and thank fullness.
They accordingly mounted, and had drove
but a Small distance from the houte, when
%
his natural self conceit proving too strong for his bashfulnefs, he could not refift.the present moment, and, accordingly, began with praising himself; a method of courtsnip, though a little uncominon, not altogether irrational: for as a person, dcsirous to exchange a sony piec of goods for a better, should prudently coniine all his oratory to one Side, folie imagined,
Vol. H. O that
e
go
that be ought to give her a high opinion of his own merit, and not, by encreasing her vanity, by a misapplied flattery, make the disproportion greater than it really was. In consequence of this refined Sophistry, and with the assistance of the phrase, though Ifay it that Should not 'fay it which he introduced, at proper intervals, to (hew his modesty, he began a long detail of his useful travels; and very gallantly concluded with telling her, that though he had conversed with, and even had the honour to enjoy the good graces of the finest ladies in France and Italy, he was never made a captive to the little divinity till now.
Marilla, who had been held a good while in fufpcnfc, could not help being Surprised at this declaration, which, however, (he was So cruel as to turn into ridicule. The
i
gaity of her reply disconcerted him for Some moments: but recovering himself he aiiswercd very gravely, that he loved, and would for ever love her; and that, as it was not in her power t prevent it, she ought to think of Some way of making him happy. Since that would
be the ready way to make herself So. And that she could never have a better husband;; he would d all in his power to Serve her.
His
  291
His thoughts were So taken up with this answer, that, quite forgetful of his office, he drove against a tree, which unluckily grew by the fide of the road, when the wheel breaking, poor Marilla was thrown in the dirt, while the Squire, giving a Spring, flounced into an adjacent ditch, which happened to be full of water. Marilla, who had not received the least hurt, was presently on her feet, extending her hand to the relief of the poor dripping squire, which by his touch was as defiled as
his own. She found him shaking his ears, and, with a most distrefsful countenance, attempting to clamber up the bank. His hat and wig floated on the stream, his face was as much besmeared as his clothes, and his whole figure such as would have excited laughter in
O U
any other person but herself j but to her it was only an object of pity.
}
The Servants, who were riding at Some distance, no Sooner beheld his miserable plight, than they made up to his assistance, and presently Set him on dry land. Having recovered his hat and wig, he began, with great confu sion, to make his apology, which she interrupted, by desiring him only to mind his own health, to take one of the horses, and to ride
O 2 wi th

2^2
with all the haste he could to her father’s, which was then not above half a mile distant, and, ordering her Servants to bring home the chaise, promised to follow him on foot. My cousin readily obeyed, and Marilla, who walks much better than most ladies about St. james’s, was not very long after him. She entered the house unperceived, and having washed herself, and changed her clothes, went down to the parlour, where she found her lover Sitting, with my father, by a good fire : he had been accommodated with a large dram, as a preservative from the effects of the cold, and care being taken to See him cleaned, and with fresh apparel put in a more comfortable plight, he was now in a proper Situation to receive her.
W AS it postible for my poor cousin to begin his amour, under more unlucky auspices! to be thus foused, and, falling from his aspiring hope, to become an object worthy of de lifion, rather than pity. What a painful hd miliation! But, though I lament his fate, he had still comforts, which the dissident and tender lover could never, on the like occasion, have experienced; a hidden reseive of vanity
now
frlicia TO Charlotte.
^93
now stood his friend, and enabled him to bear up manfully under his disgrace.
L A
Marilla had no Sooner opened the door than rny cousin, who, having recolle£ied, as he himself has stnce confessed, the obliging manner with which She had endeavoured to
r
help him out of the ditch, the little care she took of herself, and her great concern foi him, had not the least doubt but that she was per fe£tly in love with him, flew to her with open arms, gave her a rude kifs, and, Seizing hold of her hand, pulled her towards my father, who, as well as Marilla, was all amazement. My cousin desired his fair one not to be So enj adding, that as he loved her, and she loved him, their parents consent was all tint was necestary to their marriage; and then addres fmg himself to my father, cried, with the same vivacity, Egad, Sir, you know my fortune, lookee, and so forth, and I hope you have no objeilion to my having the honour of being votre pdit fls. The honour of being my grandson!! my father, laughing; how is that? One language at a time, Sir, I btfeech
you. I don’t understand -- -- -- -- He was here
interrupted by Marilla, who, recovereing the jufe of her tongue, cry’d out. What do you
mean,
o3
m j.'
294
mean. Sir, let go my hand — I can’t comprehend what you would be at. I love you! You I -- -- What infojence! And now, exerting
all her strength, he gained her liberty, and instantly flung out of the room.
As Soon as she was gone, my father told him, very frankly, that he could not possibly account for this rude behaviour; and that, when he came to his house in Such a deplorable condition, he did not think it was with design to affront his daughter, which, whatever were his motives, he would not Suffer. My cousin assured him, with many oaths, that he was in earnest, and that he only Intended to 2ssc his consent to marry his daughter, for that he had convincing proofs that she loved him. My father answered, that he could never believe it; but that, if it was true, he had no objecst on to his family and fortune; and therefore, infilled upon knowing, what reason he had to believe that she had an af fcffion for him. My coufln replied, with a confident laugh, that he knew well enough how to judge; and that a lady might tell she loved, without making use of words; that if my father knew all, he would be of his mind; and that after what had pasted, she ought not
to
Felicia to ci#trl©tte. 295
to have given herself Such airs j but it was all one, he could be as indifferent as her. Manila now returned, and interrupted a conversation that was growing very warm on my father’s Side.
vas
she entered the room her young Spark, resolving to humble her, put on a look of insensibility, and walked by her with a careleft, affected, and Self satisfied air; but Seeming not to observe it, she Seated herself close by her father, and in a calm and complaisant manner
desired him to sit down. He obey’d with a
#
Smile, when the old gentleman repeated his command to explain, before his daughter, what he meant by his insinuations. But he
did not choose to hear him j and leaning his
elbow on his knee, and staring up in marilla’s face, he ashed her which of thosc pretty hands it was that he had the misfortune to daub, when she was so kind as to strive to help him out of the ditch. He then proposed that she should hold it out to him, that he might kiss it; called her a dear Sweet sod fool. Swore she could not help it; she was frighted for him, and off her guard, or else it would have been imprudent to yield so soon;; feme men would like her the worse for it, but that he
o4
thou ght
\

thought it a certain sign that she would make a good wife, Since, though he was in fault, she took'more care of him than herself.
Marilla, guessing the grounds of his behaviour, heard this ariogant Speech, without once attempting to interrupt him : but he had BO Sooner concluded, than giving him a contemptuous look, I am Sorry, Sir, Said she, that you should put Such a false construction upon iny humanity. I thought your life, or, at least, your health in danger; Ifollowedthe first dictates of pity, and, instead of diverting myself with your misfortunes, endeavoured all I was able to remove them, and hurried you hither, wii re ] knew you could be Supplied with northeast teii.'iriei. idi you received them from home, but Such i the return that the least of kindnesa ateets with, from narrow and Selfish minds. Yet, 1 assarc you. Sir, I am nt Sorry for the little 1 have done, with an intent to
serve you; it Spreads no blush on my cheek, it Rives a) uaeauness to m, heart. 1 here is
not a creature living, that I would not have Served with equal tenderness. But how could your vanity Suggest Such a motive for my endeavouring, Without any hurt to myself, to Serve the broth; r of Amelia, and a near re
Jatiuss

lation to my Sister Felicia? What a wretched heart mult you have, while you can form no idea of generosity, humanity, or compassion, without the allay of a particular afledtion! I wilh you well, I confess, and more so, as the iiappinefs of a worthy family is, in some degree, connected with yours; but, at the same time, I must be So plain as to sell you that I neither do, nor ever can love you. Your vices aran unsurmountable obstacle. Your travels, which miiiht have been of service to a man of
o
sense and virtue, only Serve to disgrace you, and display your ignorance and folly. Forgive me Sir, I mean not to reflect on any involuntary imperfeistion; were you as kind to yourself as nature has been, you would be much more tolerable. But your debauchery your boasted lewdness, and that impious customfof Swearing,
the unmannerly vice of a bully, 'must for ever
exclude you from she
Ion of ashy woman.
who has sense, virtue, or true delicacy. Indeed, Sir, if you would be happy here, you
nyist endeavour, at least, to copy your cousin Manly, and, like him, aspire to be happy hereafter. He, I dare say, enjoys more true delight from .the restedtions of his own mind,
O ^
/ in one day, than you, with your boasted ■swing of pleasure, in the compass of a year
O 5 Ay,

298


Ay, then in the compass of an eternity, cried my father, with an eagerness which could arise from nothing but a conviction founded on experience: I know it, Sir, 1 feel it every day.
I BELIEVE, Madam, you will think Ma rilla’s reproof much milder than my coufm’s infoience deserved: : had, indeed, a favourable opportunity to humble his pride, and, by opening his eyes to his own follies, to lay an obligation on his whole family: to this point then she generously directed her views. Indeed, had she not treated him with such forcible Severity, all she could say would have been ufrlefs. His mind is so extremely callous, that fine raillery, though ever so sharp, would not have hurt him.
t
The youth, struck with the ease of a conquest which he fancied he had too soon obtained, began already to think of my Sister with indifference. His elbow was still on his knee, and his eyes, with the utmost confidence, fixed on hers : but she had hardly uttered three or four sentences, when farprife, vexation, and disappointment, appeared by turns on the
his unmeaning face, that was
not
s
i

2g,
not at all formed to express his ideas; and yet these were wrought up in So strong a manner, as to give deformity to every feature; and at last, as if blasted by the indignant look of virtue, he sighed, hung down his head, and sat abashed and confounded.
I
THE bare idea of losing, for ever, what he, just before, was ready to detpife, made him, almost distra^td. H is humility was now no less extravagant then his vanity before; it sunk even into meanness, and the most abject: submissions; he rose, walked about the room, sat down again, wept, began to swear, and stopped short before the execration was finished, and, at last, after the Solemnest protestations, that he never loved her a hundredth part so well, as he did that moment, told her that he wished from the bottom of his heart, that she had not a farthing in the world, or (to ufc his own elegant plirafe) a smock there badk, that he might let her see his sincerity.
Marilla says, that it was impossible for
her to avoid smiling, and instantly thanking him
for his good wishes. As to my father, he burst
into laughter: a fine speech truly! said he j a
most generous lover! so you would have her
0 6 be

300
be a beggar, that you might, force her to "be siiiferasle your own way. We are all greatly obliged to you. My cousm endeavoured to vindlgate himself, and after saying and unfaying, affirming and retra£ting, at last, with tnuch hesituation ?nd stammering, he made
Shift to declare, that he only meant to say, that lie Should be glad of an opportunity to convince tier how very much he loved her.
But, Madam, Itryyonr patience too much, well as tyre myself, in thus dwelling on circumstances that you may think beneath your aiotice. I stvall only say, therefore, that by the time his Servant had returned, with linen and other clothes from my aunt’s, he began to be inore reconcil : d to his fate, and, after having dressed himself afr esti, took his leave, with a tolerable grace. Not all the reasoning in the world, could have made him so sensible ef his Solly, as this disappointment has done. Love Seems to have refined his mind, and to have tven a large fcopc to his understanding. He shuns his old companions, and, for the prcfefit, •st least, has thrown off his favourite vices. It “has taught him the use of refledlion; and in short, if this reformation continues, we may
laavc 'the happiness to See him have a just claim

to that refpeist and complacency, which is ever due to the charaffer of an honest man : a title the most Significant, it carries in itfelfthe idea of intrinsic worth and excellence.
After all, a union between my coustn and Marilla would be extremely agreeable to me, could I be but once convinced of the stneerity of hts reformation j stnee it would not only^ive
a closer cement to the two families, but might
• •
happily confirm that virtue, which has yet
Scarcely taken root— — why do I mention this? it is a thing altogether impracticable: life will not suffer me to (peak of it: his want of sense is alone in her esteem an unsurmountable obstacle. The deficiency, Ihe says, is on the wrong fide; and she could never have a, iincerc esteem for a husband, who was acknowledged by all her acquaintance to be greatly her inferior. And, indeed, I must confess that 1 think her in the right.
Lucius and I propose to meet you at lei ^cester. I Sincerely wish you a Safe and agree
.dsle journey, and am, as you will ever find
tne.


302
, jne, when our friendship will be Supported by 9 nearer intercourse.
Your ladyship’s
faithful friend. Feljcia Manly,
D
LETTER XLIX and last.
From Charlotte to Lady Harriot. Dear Madam,
ID not I tell )iou, that I would not write till I could send you word how I liked ray situation?? then should you complain that I have kept my word? I am in a new wodd', and three months is Surely time little enough to form a judgement, where everything I see, and everything I hear is as great a novelty, as if I had been transported to Some unknown region. Conceive, if you can, how Surprising it naust be to me, who never beheld anything but the Splendours, or, as I now choose to call them, the tedious ceremonies of
^ court, to meet with artles$ Simplicity and
plain

Fblicia to Chahlotte.
303
plain drelted truth, instead of polite flattery and high strained compliment; and, in the room of every gaudy folly, to behold pure nature and white robed innocence, and felicity arising from a striist conformity to their dictates. — But, I believe, Madam, a particular accoitnt of my reception, and manner of life, will not be disagreeable. To begin then.
As I intended to surprise them, by arriving an hour or two Sooner than they expe<stcd, I was not above five miles from the end of my journey, when I was met by Mr. Manly and my friend. We had like to have pasted by each other, but Felicia happily observing the coronets on my chariot, called me by my name. I gave them a look: their door stew open, and both Lucius and she were at mine, before any of our fellows had timevo dismount. I was Surprised, I confess, at this piece of indecorum: O the dear hoyden! cry’d I to myself, and the Servants stared as if they were ashamed of their infignificany. T he eyes of both my friends Sparkled with pleasure, their rapidity and eagerness. Soothed my friendship, while my heart stuttered and Said, To follow nature is the height of good breeding. One of my Servants prefemly opened the door of the chariot, when
I
304 Feligia TO Charlotte,
I could>do no less than step out to embrace them. But I shall take no notice of the endearing compliments that pasted between us, felicia’s cheeks were moistened with a tender testimony of her joy j I was compelled, by friendship, to leave my woman to ride alone, and to give them my company in their own coach, in which, in a kind of triumph, they
carried me to the end of our journey.
■ ' \ ^ '
. * I
We soon^arrived at thehouse, a large plain edifice. Situated in the midst of an earthly pa radise, where I found an entertainment rather hospitable and friendly, than profuse and magnificent. 1 was welcomed with the most obli ging testimonies of joy, and as they concluded, that I must be weary with my journey, I was early conducted to my apartment, the most Sumptuous of any in the whole building, and though there is nothing like grandeur in the furniture, there is a neatness and elegance that at first engaged my attention : everything is like the owner’s mind, plain and beautiful. Such was the idea Felicia had given of me to her few select friends, that, from the first mo ment, wherever I appeared I Seemed to inspire joy.; their hearts were as open as their houses to receive me, and all of them actually
jstr i ve
 305
strive who most Shall contribute to make my
residence in this delightful place as agreeable as
possible. But after all, you can’t imagine.
Madam, what a rustic creature this Felicia is
grown; why, she is Such a walker, I can’t
keep pace with her half the length of a fmali
field. I laugh at her activity, and mimic her
country stride; while she, with the greatest
good-humour, ridicules my mincing step, and
endeavours to put me out of conceit with Some
little peculiarities, which she calls affe6lation.
Mr. Manly has, indeed, every perfection that
my lovely friend has attributed to him : believe
me, he has nothing of the swain, but simplicity,
and an ardefs heart; nothing of the courtier, but the unaffcted ease and freedom of his
t
behaviour : and Such an esteem I have already entertained for him, shat I had rathet hear him talk, than listen to the compliments of the finest beau in Christendom. Nay more, I love him; love him as I should my guardian angel, were I permitted to see his person, and hear his heavenly admonitions. If it should please the director of all events to fufferme to be Safely delivered of a boy, where shall i find a tutor like him? I would not, for the world, deny him the happiness of being brought up with Mi Son. Should I livp to See the image of my
dear
2o6 Felicia to chak.lotts.
f *
X
dear deceased lord, groving up under his ^ what % Sweet addhion would ic give to mv' reveries? with what plcafmg Sympathy should Felicia and I behold the two prattling infants, daddling before us, through the garden, or the fields, while we, with hearts filled to the brim with maternal love, and Social friendship, walk slowly after, talking of refined delights, and raising our souls on the wings of heavenly affection and gratitude. The little cherubim, when lying on felicia’s lap, puts me in mind of the Venus and infant Cupid, I have so often admired in ray uncle’s closet,
I need not tell you that he is a lovely boy, when I make use of this comparison; a comparr
fon that would wrong him, if I did not add, that
it only holds good while he sleeps; for when
awake his bright blue eyes destroy the resemblance.

The first visit I paid was to Marilla, who is the lame engaging creature that Felicia has always described her: she has a good deal of learning, a great deal of fine sense, and a vast deal of that tender humanity, that unlimited goodness of heart, which, uncircumferibed by the ties of blood, or the diftinffions of religion, grasps at the happiness of every human
creature. In this she resembles Lucius, to
whom
V
I

  307
whom she is nearer allied by a kindred of soul than by all the ties of nature. He confiders man as man, and himself as a citizen of the world I and they both regard the whole urii verse, however varied by the complexion of different regions, however distinguished by religions, customs, and manners, as having a reciprocal claim to benevolence, and the kindest alsof humanity. In this vistt to Mr. manly’s, I was entertained with the same af fe<stion as if I too had been married into the family: Marilla received me with open arms, and the good lady, her mamma, expressed almost as much tenderneis for me, as for Felicia, or her own daughter j while my friend. Smiling at their caresses. Seemed to Set a higher value on them, than on those bestowed on hcrfelst What a difference is there, Madam, between this frank behaviour, this unreserved feeedom of mind, and all the low alsof disguife, the empty formalities, the modes and forms of greatness! The openness of their countenances made it impossible for me to be under the least: restraint. In an hour’s time, I was as free and intimate with every one of them as Felicia herself; I told them I knew all their affairs, and inquired of Marilla, whether she was yet inclined to admit the addresses of felicia’s
coussn.
/
s
3o8 Filicia to Charlotts.
coussn. She reddened a iittie; but imniedi" ^tely replied, that was it possible for her to be in love with a vicious man, let his person and behaviour be ever So engaging, S: ie would never admit his addresses; Since this would be to hazard both present and eternal happiness; that, in this case, it would be her duty to do violence to her heart, and, by a glorious effort, endeavour to conquer herself: how then could she ever think of being So nearly united to a man, whom, though she would not despise, she could never love!
But, Said Mr. Manly with a smile, my daughter has another motive to refuse hinoi,
which, notwithstanding the extraordinary
\
frankness of her temper, she has had the art to conceal. A young clergyman, nearly related to Mr, Stevens, is lately returned into this part of the country, where he has obtained a Small living : but, though his circumssan oes are but very indifferent, he has every other qualification that can recommend him to my daughter. He was last week accidentally in her company; and I am informed that she has made a conquest, which she cannot but approve; I had this information from felicia’s
merit
covery,
A
Felicia t o ch'arlo’tt'e
9
^ ^ - si
■ ‘ - V.
covcry, and Says, that though the clergyman despairs of ever obtaining her, and has declared that he shall never have the presumptioh’ to attempt it, yetv in his opinion, I ought to watch her close, lest she should be prevailed upon to throw herself away. f
i
During this Speech, Marilla had a constraint and awkwardness in her air, which showed her at a loss how to behave; but she was Soon relieved by Felicia, who, after expressing Some indignation against her cousin, asked if the gentleman was not educated at Cambridge. Mr. Manly answered, that he heard So. On which she told him, that she had once the honour of his company with Mr, Stevens, Lucius, her aunt, and Amelia, in a visit they paid at my f Lord m***^’s; that
4
she was greatly pleased with his conversation, and believed him to be a gentleman of uncommon merit. It was east to See, that Marilla did not hear this encomium with indifference, though she had the presence of mind instantly t€ change the subject.
Marilla,
t See Letter VIII
/
310 Felicia to charlottfic
Marilla, who had yet, as (he told us afterwards, no more than a high opinion of the merit of this reverend gentleman, an esteem, which rather encreased than disturbed the tranquillity of her mind, had Soon a very favourable opportunity to see if it was worthily placed. She had no difficulties to encounter with; her father, and every one of the family were devoted to her happincss. Mr. Manly, disgusted with the follies of life, rejoiced at the profpe^ of difpostng of his daughter, to a person of in trinstc worth; he only wanted to know, if his information was well founded, and this he easily accomplistied. He invited Mr. Stevens and the clergyman to dine with him, and blot ing out the name of the young cfquire, showed them the letter as a mean attempt to injure them in his esteem. The modest clergyman, struck with confuston, blushed, trembled, and confessed the truth; at the same time assuring him, with many protestations, that, though it Was true he loved Marilla, he never had the presumption to aspire to the least hope; and that, whatever had been the confequerice, he had resolved never to mention it to her. But Mr. Manly interrupted him; by letting him know that he was not displeased, that he had a
very great esteem for him, and though his
daughter’s
Eeltcia to ■charlotte. 31 X
daughter’s fortune would be now very considerable, the disproportion could not be great, since he did not doubt, if virtue, piety, and good sense would do, but that in time he would wear thg mitre, anchhat, if he could gain his daughter’s affe^ion, he would be no obstacle to their union.
You must not expe£t. Madam, that I should here describe his rapture; or tell the wise and silly things he Said, and did. He was, in a moment, railed from dcspair, almost to the possession of his highest wishes: if then he did not behave at this instant like a madman, or a fool, I should have no opinion either of his love, or his wisdom. However, he was introduced to Marillaj who received him with the deference due to his merit: he saw her every day, and she every day becoming more fensible of his value, in about six weeks time they were married.,
THE young squire, though he had no great reason to hope; could not bear to lose the possibility of obtaining her, much less to see her in the postelfion of another; and, therefore, as if his reformation had been only a pretence, threw it aside, as being now of no Service to
him.
312
. ♦ i ’ 4 * *
• * *
/*
him. He cursed her and himself, stormed like 4 madman, Swore to ab andon himself to every vice, went out, and got So drunk, that he was obliged to be carried home, and the next day was Seized with a fever, from which he recovered with difficuitv. The idea of the immediate approach of death, filled his mind with horrors hot to be exprested. Dreadful, indeed, were the conflifls of his despair, but these were at last removed, by prayer and penitential tears : and, indeed, this sickness Seems to have produced a real reformation. He is blit just recovered, and may now live, and yet be no disgrace to his family; he may have a just claim to the complacency of his friends, and may arise as high as his capacity will Suffer him, to the degree of an honest husband, perhaps, a plodding country ’squire, and a well -
justice of the quorum.
.. • ^
C
My Whole attention is to contribute, by an easy chearfulness and good-humour, to the fatisfarstion of a narrow circle of friends, and to furnish fresh matter for their amufemenc.
It is their talk to improve, mine only to divert. Marilla, who has not yet retired to her new habitation, graces our little (ociety more frequently than before her marriage and with her
comes
 31j
comes the agreeable youth, who has the honour of her nearest friendship. I want words to express the height of their felicity; hej.as well as Lucius and Felicia, is cohfidered by Mr. and Mrs. Manly, as the pride of their little family; as their happiness and glory. I hardly ever knew a man of finer sense, or more generous sentiments; I could not have imagined, that a perfbu could be found, Sq nearlytefemblihg Luciusi..; V :
It is now. Madam, that I begin to live,
♦ ■ *
to know myself, and to know the human mind, which in this place, appears stripped
of every disguise. True felicity dwells here; here is peace and joy. I taste the delight of the most Sprightly and improving conversation, I read, 1 give a full Scope to my re jle£fions; andsthefe employriiente alternately fill up my time, I Sometimes venture tq walk out alone, and, wrapped in Sober contemplation, trace the hidden recestes of my own heart. ^ ’
Would you believe it r I am grown a very enthufiast. I faij. In raptures at the lowly face of nature. andl^ere you to see me, when I walk in the garden, or in the adjacent fields j or when to enlarge the land
Vpl, IL P shape
•
3h
relicia to chartotte

escape, I view from the turret, the wide pro fpe<st stretching in a long level, till it mingles with the clouds; were you, in these mo, iliehts, to hear my raphfodies,, and be a wit li^fs of my extravagancies, even you, with al your partiality for me, would be tempted
me mad, — But, perhaps, you are'
ik)t far from thinking me so at present: how cfver, it is best to conclude while I have room to assure you, that I have the honour to be

YOUR
most Sincere friend
ckaftiottfi^
N U

kc
#
m
* A
\


• • 'i
^ 1
V W f r *
lsl!r.ry
