1
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
O R, T H E
H I STORY
O F
Miss HARRIET KELSON.
In which is included the
UNHAPPY STORY
O F
Miss CAROLINE LENOX; In a Series of Letters. In Three Volumes.
V O L 1.
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
^ O R, T H E
1 H I S T O R Y
1 Miss HARRIET NELSON,
A In which is included the
UNHAPPY STORY
Ct OF
CQ Miss CAROLINE LENOX.
INA Series of Letters,
o,
ro
^ In three VOLUMES. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- — »
V O L I.
1 > — ....... — -...........
LONDON:
I .Printed for F, Noble, at his Circulating Library, opposite Grey's Inn Gate, Holborn, ^
MDCCLXXXI*
To THE READER,
H E following' work, A though a novel, may have its use:; its chief end being to promote the cause of virtue; towvarn the young and innocent; and above all, to inculcate an implicit tnjl ia that powe?''^ whose chiefest care is Suffering innocence."
I am aware that many, onr reading this little work, will a 3 throw
•; T o T H e' REA .DE R...;
throw it aside,, much disdain; and yawning cry, “O heavens! — “I am sick to steath of these fond husbands and wives! what a formal old woman is Mrs, Bromley! ■ — and what a long tale is here,, indeed, of an old Welch parson, who had .better have remained amidst the mountains of L land welly, than have wandered about the World in search..
Td the reader.
of a lor wife. I am really fbrry fbr the poor Author; the work will never fell— —. novel, ^ indeed! — t and not fe much as an amorous descrip rion, or an elopement in it!” But, as I write not for the entertainment of the idle and distolute, - these censur^s will affect me not.
To excite the tender tear of fensibility, to warm the generous breast with the love
a 4 of
‘to THE READER.
pf virtue to promote the cause of innocenecy. and to enforce the great duty of a perfect reliance on the Supreme Being, k my utmost ambition, and will be ny highest reward.
the author.
II ■ -- — -- -- -- -- -- — -- -- -- -- ■. ^
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
O R, THE
II I S T O R Y
0 r
Miss HARRIET nelsoxn. letter L
Miss Lucy River?, 7^ Fanny Afliby.
oaku'y Park.
IN vain, my beloved Fanny, arc your kind entreaties to prevail on me to leave thi« delightful iiian a 5 {xosi’„
20  j or, lke
fion. m y charming friend,,, lady Mary Dorman's kind Solicitations,., joined: with my own inclinations, are too powerful not to induce me: to stay Some, weeks; nay, perhaps,, longer. Why, my dear,, there is a wedding in the cafe, and I am to be bride maid. This last circumstance I choose to mention,, lest your little heart. Should be alarmed, and you should imagine I have made a. conquest. of one of the good ’squires with which this county abounds, and am going to,, enter into the formidable state of matrimony.
My dear cousin, you are much misiaken in your conjecture
  II
t'ure, when you Say that you suppose"
"country Tquire I take delight to rack, Whose game is whiil, whose treat a toast and' “sticki”
L am,, indeed; innocent of any mischief of this sort y though we are overrun with these kind of animals— — to return to this' same wedding I have mentioned.
The long expected nuptials, it is imagined,, will soon be con r eluded between lady Mary dor* man, and Sir Harry Boast well the wonder is, that this event: has been so long postponed, th, ey: having been engaged, as it called, for Some years; but so many delays — these lon^
B 6 ments
12   The
Inents' — betwixt you and I, are dangerous things : may heaven defend my Fanny and me from them! -- Tut, indeed, I fancy my sweet friend, lady Mary, will now Soon? become a wife. Imagine, my dear, how much I should regret to leave her at this interesting period. Yet, if my ever revered aunt infists on it; whose Smallest desire has ever been regarded, as even a command with your Lucy; I will tear myself away, however relikstantly. Try, my good girl your powers of persuafion. 1 ac -- knowledge that myabfence from the priory has been longer than L intended by many weeks; and I Icnow to, that youj. my kind friend.
Flistory of miss Harriet Nelshn. rj
friend, in my absence, are entirely confined to,.
“Ilarmlefs plain work, and dul'llroakinj^roaks.*'
How then cani expect that my Fanny, will forgive me, for thus intruding on her friendsliip^? ^ — Yes, She will, I hope, and endeavour, also,, her lively conversation, to amuse the hours of that excellent woman.,, who has. been a. parent to us both. 1 did not imagine I had been half So felfilh, as to prefer'my own happiness to that of my fapny’s; who, but. for me, would have been at this very time with lady Rich, in the centre of all earthly gaiety and. ^useinents; but, indeed, I will
'he
f4.   The' ■
be very good for the future, and' make yoir ample amends': • ^ int the mean time,, write, and tell me what fucctfs you have: in regard to my request, and that you ■forgive your encroaching,, but affectionate,
Luev Rivers
L E T
  mil’s Harriet Nellbm. - 15; :
LD T T E P.. II
Miss Fanny Alhby, io; ji//yducy Rivers..
Priory
Forgive yiou,, my dear Lucy !' I am almost; angry that you should think an" apo— — necessary to the. friend,, the; Sister of your heart. I could say, a million, of fine things upon tha Subject of friendship; but,, without racking my brain for. moral fentences, on this occasion, which: would come much better fronx; your Serious pen, than that of your giddy, vivacious Fanny,, I Shall tell you, once for all, thati
youf
Distress Virtue; or, The'
your request is granted,, and thaf. you are at liberty to stay as long as you please.. As there is a wed -- ding going forwarcl, there was no occasion to use any other plea; for dearly do these old maiden aunts love to Hear the very name of matrimony : tltough, lord help them, 'they never; - tried the state; but, perhaps, thetis the very reafbn of their being so extremely happy, whenever even the bare Subject is 'mentioned.
Now, I think, I see my Lucy looking grave, ' and going to chide me; but that will not hinder me, T must indulge my lively vein, which you know of old leads me 'often to be highly Saucy.
'^ This
  miss Harriet nclson. 17
This dear good woman, our aunt ^ I mean, for Some days before your letter arrived, had been uneasy at your long absence.
“It is very strange,, Fanny Lucy has been gone two nronths — Such beauty and fortune may fail a prey to a designing wicked tnan : 1 am apprehensive of Some danger in her staying Ih long, and 1. heartily wiih Ihe was safe again, with us, in the tapestry drefiing^ room at the priory."
But to proceed— — letter was brought in by good old abraham the butler,, who has: been particularly anxious for your preservation. ' god help these wise old folks; they certainly imagine,, when once
w’e...
»8  i or, Thr
we are out of Their sight, thac without doubt, we are to be robbed and/rxiurdercd’,.. at least. — But,, as 1 was fiiying,.. your letter was brought in.
I was lit ting at work with my' aunt, in the little cedar parlour, and the moment I caff my eyesr upon the diretffion, I felt a painful kind of emotion (as fear for my Sweet friend, lest my aunt would not grant a reepieil: 1 knew would be made), wdiichi was eveii, ^ at that moment, stronger than the pleasure the sight, of my lucy’s letters never fails to give. me.
My aunt Saw. ray emotion,, ou which account, you may be sure,,
'direction vas inspeffed; but,.
not
  Mlfs Harriet N el Son. rg
not finding it to be the hand writr ing of one of those formidable inciifters, called men. Sire gave it me instantly, I eagerly broke the. Seal, and ram over the con tents with a heart: telt pkasure,. known only to friendship like ours.
With fear and trembling, I confess, I made your request on account of the approaching nuptials. -- Off went the spectacles.. down dropped the good lady’s, work.
A wedding, Fanny! — blefs' me, I cannot think, of recalling my niece, till that important event is over; an event on which the Sole happiness or rnifery of lady Mary dorman’s, future life de --
pends...
20   The
pends. A wedding’, indeed, ir an affair of consequence.”
Thus did our good aunt run on for half an houi%. not forgetting to mention the many and, great preparations that, forty years beforei had been.: made for herself, on the like occasion: : that men, in general, were designing, base and perfidious creatures; and that slie would not have lady Mary too fut'f^. even were - the very day fixed,. Her long harangue ended with a free grant for. your, L ady ship,, as I before, laidj, to. slay as long as yoa .please: : mean, till the parade is over.. The. Gonvcrfition did not conclude without an, invedlive, from, my aunt, against all " im
^listory of .miss Harriet nelson. ar
in which I will be So frank as to own, I did not join, as I am mi xjf her opinion.
But, my dear Lucy, I have .'ten. thousand questions to ask, and you tell me nothing. Js ithis.a match of love, .or iconvenience'? What Sort of man is this Sir Harry? Is lady .Mary really ac amiable as the world reports her to be? Your acquaintance, you know, began with her .last Spring at Bath. I charge you, tell me everything: In charity, you cannot refuse me .a detail of the minutest particulars,. But do not imagine, my 'Lucy, that I am without my amusements, though of a very different kind from yours. What '
£2. disttest.'virtue; ost, The '
extreme' pleasure does every object convey, that Has the least con medtion with what we love I After i have.laid 4: his need I add, that my principal pleasureshere confistb: in extendiiig my tenderness to those little warbling Songsters,, your Canary birds, with the whole tribe of your domestic animals i As to ithe parrot, I have almost 'killed'him with kindness. Fidelle is grown So immoderately fat. She : Qan hardly waddle into the room. The turtle doves are my daily care, and fed by my own hand night and morning: the beautiful fiower.& you were so fond uf, cul tivatirlg, I watch with my utmost, astiduity^ and am more proud of ^ the
Mistory of miss harriecnelson. ^3.
?the bed of tulips, and auriculas, for are they not my lucy^s?) ithan I Should be of half a dozen; /weet fcented fops. I have just planted a nryrtle at the foot of our old favourite oak, whose Sacred ihade has so often Sheltered us from J: he Scorching beams of the fun, in the days of our careless infancy Tour flirubbery is in high bloom, and the whole is aperfedl Elysium. 'You see I have my pleasures, but my greatest will be that of hearting, as frequently as posfible, from any beloved Lucy,
As I am, most stncerely. Her Fanny Ash
^4 . j or. The P. S. My aunt Sends love in ■abundance, and hopes, whenever you return, you will come to us heart whale. I hnow what she means by this hint; for we have heard that there is a most formidable Colonel, and several very smart officers in the very next town to Oakley Park. — Dan -- gerous objects! Adieu.
V T E T
  Mils Harriet nelsom 25
LETTER ISL
Miss Lucy Rivers, to Miss Fanny Afhby.
Oakley parl
My aitiiable friend! my generous Fanny 1 how shall I Sufficiently thank you for yout kind, your disinterested astetstion! excellent girl! Who is capable, and has a heart exalted enough, merely for my sake, to convert the most trifling occurrences into matter of amusement and pleafurei and to find, as our favourite says Good in every thing”
vol. I. B To
l6 Distress: Virtue; otj Vhd
To be Shut up from all the world, in Such an old mansioh liouse, as the Prioryj Secluded from every conversation, but Such as my aunt can entertain you with’i and all this for your Lucy, is an effort worthy of the friendship of Fanny ashby! —
Give, you a detail of what passes here !” — -
I fliodld he unpardonable, not to Contribute to the very utmost of rdy i)ower; ^ to your amusement. LII the first .place to begin with lady Mary;.
. You know,, I believe, ' that stxc generally resides with lady do wager Dorman, her grandihother 5 an excellent woman ufa great stge^
and
Hiftoryof Miii Harriet nelson.
and far gone towards a better World: ia this, She has hardly any irtvercourse but with her chaplainj and a few very intimate friends. She never leaves her apartment! fb that; in iacti lady Mary presides as the: ten tyre mistress of this large, and well regulated family
I think, I mentioned : in A former, letter; that her ladyffiip’s fortune is about, twenty thousand poundsv arid She has a large dependarice on : lord Bbritour, i if he dies without children, who / is her uncle. The dowager. lady’s estate goes to her Son, a’ y^^^h’i irow ori his travels
■r You aik,. if lady Mary is really B z af
  br. The
as amiable as the world reports her to be? If you mean in point merely of beauty, I think I have Seen what the generality of our Sex call prettier faces; though the inexpressible Softness and sweetness in her countenance, exceeds the utmost idea one can form of loveliness. Her perfonis elegance itself: She is indeed, the perfect model of female Softness. Het air, timid, languishing, and, what the French call
her irrefi stably charming. Her frequent indispositions, give her likewise an air of delicacy and languor, which is infinitely lovely. To this person. She is mistress’ of the most winning accomplish
  2: 9
complilhments of art; particularly music, in which she highly excels. Her understanding is great and refined, and has beea improved to the utmost. Her tenderness. and Sensibility are beyond all defcrip tioiii I often tell her, I envy ik.t her refined Sensibility, as I fear it will, in the course of her future life, be the Source of many painful feelings. — Such, and infinitely more charming than. I shave described, is the lovely woman, who, in a few weeks, is to give her hand' to Sir Harry boastwell
You ask, what Sort of man he is? -- 'without exception, the handsomest I ever beheld. But' what is a mere person in a may?
B Te
3© Distrcst Virtue; or, The
To me, he appears insufferably vain, conceited, and Self sufficient.. Eternally Showing his white teeth,, and displaying his. fine hand; or sitting in Some particular attitude, to Show his persoii to most advantage. His cliarader is, that he is;; the bejl young man in the world j; religious, regular, and free fromr any Ace; but, I much Soar, he‘ is no better at the bottom than a ■ Specious hypocrite. I have known Some of these extraordinary good young men, who make a great boast, that they have no one vice; and, at the fanie time are guilty of crimes, which even in the eye of the world, are wicked to' a great degree. Witness, my fof.
mer
Hi dory of miss Harriet Nellbn. 31
mer lov6r, Sir Peter Dabble, who was esteemed a perfect Sairit, by almost all his acquaintance; and yet, during his formal proposals to me of marriage, was seducing an, innocent young creature, his Servant, in his own house. It vas suspected the child was destroyed thro’ the instigation of him, though nobody dared, from the Sanctity of his character, to acknowledge their suspicions. He himself affected to be highly difpleafedy that Such, a Scene of wickedness stiould be carried on in his religious, regular family; but I knew the real truth. of this infamous story...
You know I am not; naturally cenforigus; but'i own; when I
B. 4- sees
j2   The
see a young man railing at the most innocent amusements, I cannot help imagining it to Be a kind of cloak to conceal Some lurking vsee, which Shuns'the light. In the present cafe of Sir Harry, I am Sure, I am not mistaken. I have seen him, in the midst of a discourfe which would, not have dlsgracedm. pulpit,. leer in So very particular, a manner, by casting a wishful look; that I own I am Secretly grieved at the thoughts of a delicacy and' fweetness, like Sady mary’s being united to this man. He has a good estate,, and a fine seat, not far from hence;, and is reckoned to Be extremely prudent in; his money matters; but
I aim
  miss Hartiet nelson. 33.
i^am' much mhiakeri, if he is not abominably avaricious, which, in a yotmg periqn^ 18 a vice much to be dreaded; as there can be na doubt, but it will encrease with ' his years..
Sir Harry — but I am this moment called away by my friend, who is going to make a charitable visit at a poor cottage, by the fide of the park, and requests my company : fa adieu, my dearest, best Fanny, till the next post., -- -! thank my aunt for her kind indulgence. — What do I not owe you for your tender care; of all my little, but numerous,. do b. 3 mestic^
34 pistrest Virtue; or. The
mestics at the Priory !- — wai*ds are insufficient.
Adieu,
Ever yotifs,
Lucy Rivers.
We are to have a ball tomorrow night, when I am to dance with the dangerous Colonel you mention. — Coming, jny dear lady Mary.
LET
/
of Mist Harriet nelson. 3'5 ';
LETTER IV
Miss: Lucy Rivers, to Mifi Fanny Ashby,.. [/« Continuation
odhkypark,
I Shall Send an enormous packet;
for before I undress for bed, as tomorrow I Shall be preparing for the ball, I must chat for Some little time, with my beloved Fanny, ere I steep this nighti.
You ask, if this intended marw riage is a match of love, or coix venience? I believe, fincorely* lady Mary has an extreme affection for Sir Harry, foundctl in pgfed good qualities., Her fenfilii^ B lity
Distress Virtueor,. The
lity is So great, that She cannot love anything with moderation; and what an evil, I must call it, is sensibility, when affected By exquisite pastion;. for Such she certainly feels for him. As to Sin Harry,, I often think her fortune' is with him her principal charm as he does‘ not appear to me to have taste, and refinement enough; : to he fer>fible of a delicacy like hersi. Me sometimes has an indifference in his manner to her, ^ that grieves my very foul: but ffie shos it non— — infatuation t
Everything is coneluded> except the marriage writings; which are not yet near finished I hear..
They
  ff
They were to have been married two years ago, lut waited, I fiiid, lor the death of an ^ aunt of - Sir harry’s, who left him part of her fortune;,
Goodnight: ' I' will proceed in my letter after our ball is over.
Well, Fanny, I am retired to my, pen, after having; : Spent a very agreeable evening, ^ and.dancing the whole time with a, very handsome laced colonel. The company though not largcy. conststed .of Some of the best: ' families in this part of the county. It was the anniversary of the birthday., of lord Dorman, thv youth I .before:
men
3 s   - The
mentioned, now on his travels; : he is not yet of age, but the good i old lady will always celebrate it. with xhearfulnefs..
Sir Harry danced with my charrn ing friend... She looked like a Superior Being, but how cold his behaviour! Heavens! can I bear that Jhe, the most excellent of women, stiould be Sacrificed in. this manner I I do not think Sir Harry has' an indifference for the sex, •, it: I rather look upon him to be a concealed rake, a charac ' ter I detest. As a pastion like hers is absolutely blind, I did not wonder, this morning, at her not observing a circumstance which struck me greatly. He was standing:

History osmiss Harrier Nclshn. Sgi
ing by her sharpfichoict whilst she was playing and Singing a most divine Italian Song He was the whole time talking to me. and to a young lady, who stays with us • a day or two,, on the mpsh indifferent matters when lady Mary begged him to observe a very celebrated passage in the Song before her: Dear, lady Mary, ” cried
he, : wish a yawn, “for heavens sake do not tell me now of your fine passages, we shall have hours enough to hang on our hands hereafter, when we shall stand in need of every amusement: and immediately begun taking in his hands, a piece of work I had just finished,. which I could not help almost;
rudely
40   The
rudely Snatching Sfom hlra with much ccrntempt, as his indifierent. coidaess to my charming friend pierced my very Soul, '.
Once more, my beloved girl, C adieu; you Shall receive another: large packet next week, „
From faithful i
lucyrtversr.
L E Ti
isistory of miss Harriet nelson. 41
LETTER V
Mifihwcy katxtao Miss Fanny Ashby.
Oakley Park.
YOU give me, Fanny, great pleasure when you tell me my letters afford you Some amuse ment: what a wretch Should I be not to endeavour to do all in my power for that purpose!
Patterns of various silks, with Other things, are come down; and this moment bally Brown, lady mary’s maid, informs me that her lady begs to see me directly; that she has just received some very bad news from London concerning her trustee.
42  j or, The
trustee, who is a banker and mew chant.
Bad news from London 1: what can it postibljr be? But I fly to her,
# # m ^ m ^
Bad news, indeed! — Heavens F what a stroke!
I found my Sweet friend fitting: in tears.,
“Oh, Lucy! I am ruined and imidone !” She held in her trembling, hand a letter which She desired I would read.
I hastily ran over the fatal contents, with an anxious impatience. The letter was from her lawyer in town, to inform her that her trustee
had
  43
had faited, that his creditors had Seized on everything they could find, and that of the twenty thousand pounds which had been in his hands, only three thousand' could he recovered; and that the bse. villain, was. gone off with what effects he could remove, no one knew where. :., ^.
This Shocking intelligence is a: dreadful stroke indeed! It was Sent by a Special messenger; but, before night, she received Several' letters by the post, from various.', friends in town, to confirm the' melancholy tidings Some of advice, and others of consolation. Good heaven! with what amazing fortitude, everything considered,
does
44 Distress: Virtue; or, The
does she bear the surprising change Isle wiped away a few tears.
“Now, my Lucy, ” she Said,, you will See the disinterested behaviour of that excellent young man,. whoml Some, in the world, have accused of avarice. Yes,, my, Henry, thy j: ust,, thy generous soul, has now an opportunity of: showing its genuine virtues/.’
She could; not here restrain her’ tears from, flowing apace. I wept with her, - andtecretly Said to myself, mayi you, my friend; not‘ be disappointed sin the opinion you entertain of your lover’s disinterested views.”
The great point isj how we shall be able to biak this perplex i - ing

ing affair to the good old lady dowager Dorman. After marry Schemes, it was at last resolved, that the chaplain Should communicate the vexatious 'news to her, lest she should be alarmed by st letter from the post.
I havo.just been'up mth Mr. •godwin to the excellent lady, who is the mbst venerable figure I ever beheld. She was sitting, like resignation itself, reading Dr. 'sherlock’s discourse upon Death She 'Smiled upon me with an angelic Sweetness;; fearing, if 1 had stayed, I should have been too much affected, I hastened down to my charming friend again | and, before I left her for the
night.
4*^.  ; or, Th
night, I had the Satisfaction td find her tolerably composedi
m *. # ^ #
, We have heard nothing of Sit ilarry these: two days Lady Mary says. She is certain he is indif posed, ia.s he complained of a, cold when he was last here; But stie has now recollected, that he mentioned having an affair of Some husiness; which would engage him for a'day or two from Oakley Park.
Yes, bufiness indeed! my maid Dolly has just informed me what it is. -- This is the prudenty juji\ young man !- — He has Sent for his lawyer, and has Seized on the effects of ameeefiitaus, but honest farmer;
 is
farmer, ofte of his tenants, who owed hiiti year “S renti. The poor wife has lain in btit a few days and there are half a dozen children 'xiying hound her for necefiaries^ Such a picture of real distress affected me So miich, that I could not help sending a trifle, privately as from an unknown hand,, to the miserable family
Mr. Godwin tells Us, that he was amazed at the pious resignation with which the good old lady received the news of the great change i n lady mary’s fortune He Says She was Some moments Silentthen, with unlisted hands and eyes,. “Thy will, O God! be done. Gracious heaven protect
my
4^  The
my child! — She will Soon, Mr. “Godwin, be the wife of a most worthy young man, whose soul is greatly superior to any sordid views; consequently this change will make no, alteration in a mind So steady as his. I will not Wrong him to admit a doubt of it.”
See, my Fanny, what their opinion of this man is! Mr, Godwin, who is simplicity and goodness itself, acquiesced with her, I suppose, in the Same belief.
Lady Mary, who, as I have before Said, places the most generous, unfufpedfing confidence, in her lover, has been shut up in her closet these two hours, writing, I imagine, an account of her great misfor
  49
misfortune, and pouring out, i tloubt not, the tender Sentiments of her whole soul to him I will go down and ask her to take a few turns in the park
m m m m #
Yes, my friend. She has wrote. She desired I would read, and give my opinion of her letter, as She feared. She said, it Seemed to imply Some little doubt of his honour, or generosity: though not a word in it could I find capable of that construdlion. Her own soul abounds with the highest generosity, and her confidence in his is unbounded. I own I have doubts, great doubts of his;; but • vol, I. C as.
50  j 'or. The
ns ' the affair is So very near a conclusion, you may be certain st have never made the least discovery of them to any one, though often do I Spend the Silent midnight hour in anxiety, on account of the uncertain fate which awaits this lovely woman. Often do I wilh She possessed a little of that Spirit, which never yet deserted your Lucy, and which enables her to keep all imposition at a distance. We should deal with eertain people, as we'stioilld handle nettles; not with fear, but boldness, if we wisti to. avoid being hurt by them.
After having read lady, Mary letter, 1 told her I thought it So exatst a picture of a tender,
gene
Histoi7 of miss Harriet nelton. 51
generous mind, in distress, that, with her permifiion, and, as she knows 1 acquaint you with every minute particular that pastes, (for do I not look on you as ?nyfelf^) I wished she would grant me the favour to transcribe her epistle to Sir Harry for your perusal. She gave me free leave to do it; and added, that “was you with us you would share, as I do, her every thought j and that as she looks on "you as part of her Lucy, ” (how generousty kind is this!) you are entitled to know all that pastes at .Dakley Park.” — But she begs you will make allowances for ^ d.ehdef' -- fnefs which she has entertained for a rn "man, even before she C % was
51   The was sensible of her prepoffefiion, as it commenced, I find, when she was a mere girl— — commit the letter to your perusal
tuodf Mary Dorman to Sir Laity Boast well
HOW vain, my Henry, would he an attempt to describe the uneafi ness I feel at this short absence 1 Three whole days have passed, .and not one line? Bustnefs, I imagine, has detained you in person from me; but you, who know my tender, anxious concert! for thy dear welfare, might have satisfied me, you are in perfect health— —! my Henryj hat have I not Suffered since I Saw you!
Dd
  53 Do you know that I am undone absolutely ruined f indeed it is’ true. My vile trustee, Mr. Trickster, has absconded with the greatest part of my fortune. — The: greatest part do I say? — Alas! T find I have only three thou Sand. pounds remaining,, which were > left by my god father lord muf grove. I enclose my lawyer’s letter, which contains this, shocking intelligence, together with the: rest of the letters I have since received, concerning this most grievous misfortune. Gould I divest myself of a tenderness for the most amiable and generous of men, which it is my boast to be capable of feeling, I should, per: : 3 haps.
54. e)istrtst Virtue; or. The
haps, fit. down and write a romantic epiihe, that we: must now forget each other;, and that our long expected, tender union, can never now take place; but I Scorn,. I detest the little art of pretending to be capable of making a sacrifice, which I know it is not in my power to perform. nieither will I wrong thy generous. soul with a fear of — forgive me even ^tfiadom oi imqh. a supposition.
. shall form a little.plan of oeco rtomy, \vhicsh Shall amply make up for the deficiency of my lost fortune. — You know, my Henry, London and its pleasures have na particular charms for me.' You. know I am not extravagantly fond
^ ' of
  miss Harriet nelsan. Sf,
of dress and show. Whilst leaning on thy dear arm, I wander in the delightful grove, at Woodley manor listening to thy ever new, and instructive conversation I shall not sigh for a coach and six, nor for the false parade of public life. I shall enjoy wealth in content ^ and ■ in the entire pofiefiion of a heart, “dearer than Plutus’ mine, richer than gold.” The diamonds, we last talked of, I beg. may not now be purchased; those I have by me will be quite Sufficient on the approaching occasion. Let me see, or at least hear from you as soon as possible I shave a thousand things to say, to ask..
Seat of Sir Harry fioastweli. • ’ C 4 to
56   Tste
to hear. — My Henry, adieu! I almost envy you the glory, the refined delight of bestowing an eternal obligation on a mind So tenderly affectionate, as is thy own
Maria Dorman.
Do not be concerned, lest my health Should have Suffered by this painful shocki still possess the treasure of thy affection, and therefore cannot but be quite content.
Wtell, my dear Fanny, I will fuppose you have read lady mary’s fetter, which you see is the picture of artless tenderness. May her generous confidence in Sir harry’s honour meet with its reward!
, Whilst
  miss Harriet nelsost. 57
Whilst She was Sealing the letter, “Now, Lucy, you will See, on this occasion” ” Said, “how nobly, how generously, this good, this upright man will a.”
Why do you sigh, my Lucy P” ' “I was, my dear lady Mary, thinking of your wicked trustee: but, that everything may follow from your letter to Sir Harry, andl which your extreme merit demands, is my warmest prayer.”
She then led me forth into a little wilderness' of Sweets, in which is a Small hermitage, where we Spend much of our time. — Adieu, till tomorrow evening..
C 5 L E T
58i  , Xhe *
LET TER VI
Miss Lucy Rivers, to Miss Fanny Assiby, -[/« Continuation, ']
NO letter yet from this Sir Harry I my Sweet, my amiable friendy reposes So entire a con -- fidence in him, and is herself So' innocent of all manner of deceit, that I know She would as foom distrust the evidence of her own senses, as believe him to be capable; of'changing. But is it not strange,, iny Fanny, that on the very first reect^ of a letter like hers, he did not fly on the wings, of love, to xoaifbrt, to afllst, andi advise *

fjstory'of miss Harriet nelson. 59
hercertain I am, I Saw Sir Harry ride through the park, at the crossing of though avenue, this very morningy as - I stood at my dresting room Window: hut this I Shall not tell lady Mary, as I question much if stie would even Survive a premeditated Slight on this occafron. But, really, one is apt to form judgments too rash: — Undeserving, as I think him, of so exalted a creature as lady Mary ■ yet cannot think lie would be? so very base as to desert her. Thh moment I see his servant riding up to the house- -- will go down; so adiestv till evening.
my .: dearest' fiuiliys' whatca : • • C 6; Scene
6o   The
Scene have I to relate! — poor lady
Mary — how Shall 1 tell you? -- --
my fears for her are great. — A violent fever, for three nights, and days, has deprived her of her senses. I have not had my clothes off since Friday last. I have lain by her bedside, and given her every medicine She has taken., She has
not known me these two days -- --
You may guess the cause of all
this -- Villain— — nly soul
abhors him! — tomorrow I will tell you more,, -
* * * * *
God, (he has had a better night, and is now in a fine Sleep. Both the physicians affure me,.
She

she is visibly better, and in treat me to be comforted Indeed, I have been almost frantic. We keep this illness an absolute Secret from the old lady, as well as itst dreadful caufethe particulars off which, while my Sweet friend steeps, I will endeavour to acquaint you with, as well as I am able.
I think I told you I would godown, it was on Wednesday last,, to hear what mestage Sir Harry! had Sente I met Sally Brown ort the stairs, who informed me, she, had just carried a letter to her lady; who was in her closet. After I had given her time Sufficient, as.. I thought, to read it,. I tapped gently at het door ji but not hear -- ^
ing
  The
itig any motion made to open it, ' Upon my repeating Several times my kncicking,. I ventured to open it; when, good God !- — what did I Sea! my charming friend Salient on the floor in fainting fit, which had all the appearance of death itself; with a letter grasped in her hand. I had not the presence of mind to ring for a Servant, but took her in my arms (amazing that I did So, considering her size;; you know what a little diminativa' girl your Lucy k) I took her in' my arms, I say, and carried her to the bed., chamber : and though, from a Scream which I gave, a Servant came to my assistance, it was full an hour before The was re -- covered
  miss Harrier Nelson. Sj
covered from that deathlike,, fit. But what followed was; I think, still more dreadful; for it was Succeeded by such fits of laughter, that my Shock was fa greatj I was often obliged to quit her room for a' few minutes : — I could not stand it. At length a physician arrived; who ordered her to be put in to, a warm bed, and the room, darkened; he added, a strong fever, and he feared a delirium,, were coming on apace. The letter, tjiq villain’s letter, you may be Sure, I Secured from every eye, and put in my pocket.. By the next morning,. She was in a high fever. She raved continually about he letter and. Sir Harry.. Ashs if
lie
^4   The
be wrote it — “Does he deny his hand? — and is he come? — where IS he }” In this way She continued for four days— — now'wakes.
Rejoice with me, my dear Fanny, She has had a fine steep, and Seems very composed. We earnestly entreat her not to Speak. — My next letter Shall be by the followings post, if I write all night— — hope then to give you a better account.. Adieu. — Pity your poor
Lucy Rivers..
t E
  65
LETTER VII
Miss Lucy Rivers, u Mlft Fanny Ashby.
Oakley Park.
Rejoice with me, my good Fanny! lady Mary is const derably better, and begins to be' able to sit up in her bed, though supported by pillows.
She affected me greatly this, morning. I was Sitting by her; she took my hand.
“O Lucy !” —
She Said no more, being interrupted by a violent gush of tears, which having greatly relieved her, she proceeded, though she is for weak, I could hardly hear her
Sweety
66^  j or, .The ^
Sweet, plaintive accents, where is Sir harry’s letter where is the cruel proof of his — ”
'I interrupted her, as it was too fender a Subject for her to dwell upon.
^ “Safe, my dear lady Mary; F have locked, it up from every hu -- man eye : even your Lucy which was a truth). has not ventured tof, look at the contents.”
. “I beg you would, ” she replied: “Such a letter should be read by every young woman, - as a dreadful warning how she bestows her affections. I beg it may be communicated to your Fanny too. r — Gracious heaven !” —
-, here.a violent burst of tears pre vented her going on. Luckily
History osmiss Harriet kelson. 67l
. Luckily, that moment entered the physician;. who having pronounced her much better, the Sweet Sufferer Said, She would try to steeps I accordingly stole out of the room,. to write to my Fanny.
I had forgot to tell you, the good old dowager lady is made to believe, that lady Mary has strained her ankle; which' renders it impof frble for her to pay her the attendance She daily used to do. I would not have her know the real truth, till lady Mary is recovered, upon, any account whatever. Sir Harry has not been at the house, since he wrote his infamous letter, but has twice Tent this formal mestage on^a card: ^‘ Sir Henry Boastwell prefenta
0^   The
presents his most respectful compliments, and hopes the ladies at Oakley Park are in good health.’’ — Cool, deliberate villain I
# #, # m #
As I had lady mary’s permistion,, I have just been reading Sir harry’s horrid letter. Perfidious wretch! I communicate to you the contentsj^ as I have leave So to do
L E TI
.'
  6 ^ LETTER vlil
'Sir Harry Boastwell^ ta Lady Mary Doriiian* 'Wooddey Manor
vmadamj
Y O U R letter I received and am extremely Sorry to hear 'of your misfortunes I own I am not a little surprised, that a lady of your understanding Should not have a deeper and more just sense of this very great calamity. — Very providential is it that this Jiroke happened before our once intended union; which, give me leave, madam to say can never
now
  The
now take place. I am indeed amazed you Should imagine it can. I Shall adt the part of an upright, iionest man, when I Say that my fortune, though I hlejs God it is a good one, cannot maintain any lady without its equivalent. I am sorry this discovery was not made Sooner, as I have been at a great additional expense, both in altering, and furnishing my house, of which you cannot be ignorant. I likewise wilh it had been made Sooner on another, a more interesting motive; namely, that I might have had an opportunity of cultivating an alliance, which was offered me, about a twelve month ago, with an heircss of large fortune, niece to
the
'  71
‘the bishop of b r 1. So that T am a Sufferer on a double ac « xount.
Permit me, madam, to wish, as a friend, that you would not ' give way to romantic ideas; but ‘learn to think more justly and so sherly of the matrimonial state, than to think its chief happiness consists in mere flighty passion. l!hat which you have entertained for me, I make no doubt but a very little time and absence will enable you to conquer. I bless 'my'god, I have every passion under due subjection;; grace enough, I hope, to make a prudent choice, whenever I shall see it fitting and proper to alter my condition. I
shall
 j or, The
Shall always be glad to hear of. your welfare, and whenever I come your way, shall call upon a family I much respedt. My wishes for your success out of your present troubles, will never be wanting, being madam, your friend, and well wisher,
henrv Boastweli.
Frond, haughty, insolent, by -- pocritical fellow! — O Fanny, are j younot enraged— — — villain! — you see he deems the loss of fortune, the greatest of all earthly calamities, I knew avarice was
his
  miss Harriet nesson. .73
his favourite passion, though I strongly imagine he poffestes another, which often I have observed attends the avaricious, and proceeds from the same detestable, felfish principle, and which too often goes under the amiable name of love. -- -- Prostituted word! — I am much mistaken, if Sir harry’s frequent private journeys, I will call them, to London (for he is never seen among the polke world there) are not on the abovementioned ac counl though he is esteemed a perfect saint with regard to women. It is very probable, my sweet, and so lately almost dying friend is sacrificed to some Shamelefs prostitute in the purlieus of Sn james’s. Vox, L D Im^
74 Bistrect Virtue; or, The
Impious wretch, to mention the Sacred name of his Maker, to cover his vile art and hjpocrify! — But I must attend my lovely friend. -- * Adieu.
tet.
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 7j:
L E T N E Jl I X.
Miss Lucy Rivers, to Miss Fanny Ashby. sin Continuationf\
Lady Mary gains a little strength, but by very Slow degrees: her pale, languid countenance, Sufficiently evinces her inward struggles of mind. Severe trial to Such sensibility as hers! O, my Fanny, let this be a warning to us, to guard against the first approaches of this dangerous, this fatal passion!!
* m m m My beloved friend, who is hardly yet able to sit in her chair, tells Da me.
y6 Distressed virtue; or. The
me, that if Sir Harry visits at the house, lire Shall not, refuse Seeing him. I own my very heart recoiled at her mentioning Such a thing; but She reasoned So justly, and properly on the subject: : that her illness might perhaps be attributed to his, leaving her, and expose her thereby to vthe censures of the world) that I own she brought me entirely to be of her way of thinking. She believes that it will be the best way to demonstrate that perfect indifference, which stie flatters herself She Shall Soon feel for him. Indeed his cruel, haughty letter must, Tthink, ba nish every latent Spark of regard, and merits the highest contempt.
— O
  77
► -- O, Fanny, if I had the management of such a wretch! — You know what a fancy Spirit your little Lucy has : if he comes I Iliall enjoy a malidous kind of plcafuro in confronting him. -- Talk of the devil, and behold this moment is ar rived the following card from him!
‘ “Tir Harry Boastwelhs compliments to the ladicis at Oakley Parkas he hopes lady Mary is quite recovered by this time, will call on the family one morning this week,
id hiswv^ay to B -- --, where he is
going to hold a court.”
If business leads him this wav, as you see, he will, perhaps, vouchsafe to call.
'T will dispatch this momstrous 3. packet,.
7k  y or,. The
packet, and send you another the beginning of the week. Adieu, my amiable,, my excellent friends Continue to. love.
Your
Lucy riv.ejis,
P. S. A thousand thanks for your last favour. You say my aunt is outrageous against Sir flar ry, and on his account every individual of the Sex. Poor Fanny !' what lectures do you Suffer! what
admo
  Mifij Harriet Nelson. yg
admonitions rather 1 -- -- But She,
dear good woman, means them all for your real Service, and were I at the Priory, I Should join with
her. -- -- Sly, artful, hypocritical
wretches, as they are I
d4. LET
SQ  . The
LETTER X
Mifi Lucy Rivers, u akfs Fanny Ashby,
0 alley V ark.
This contemptible baronet,.
my Fanny,, has been here this morning. My face is still in i a violent'giowi yornmnow how L look when my Spirit is roused...
About twelve o’ctock I went up? to write Some letters for: lady. Mary;, but; had hardly begum them, wheiii Sally Brown came to inform me,. Sir Harry was below,, and that her lady begged. I wouki go downuohim.. It is impossible to tell you how Lfelt; but I stew
down
I
Hificry of miss Harjiet nelson. 8i
down to lady mary’s apartment. ^ She was greatly fluttered, but yet vas determined, She Laidy if' he offered to come up in her dreflistg room, to receive him, with a proper dignity, and proper indifference.
I applauded her for this resolution, and hoped'tie would mix with them a proper portion of contempt, as that would be Sure to mortis his pride j.
Down I went. ■ • He was playing wtth a Spaniel in the parlour. “O”, thought I, that I had the eyes of a bafiliik ’ to. look him dead !”
i was quite out of breath, but I endeavoured .at the most ccnteinp -- tuous .composure. - He. ntadc one of his formal stiff' bows.
D 5 „ ' The.
8a   The
“The family, I hope, are in good health. Lady Mary Dorman, I Suppose, is now pretty well.”
“Lady Mary, Sir, I imagine has got the better disorder;;
when once the caiife is removed, ilt effefis Soon cease.”
I was determined to make as slight as possible of her illness, and ■ indeed could have given the world she never had been ill on his account; as it could only be So much fev/.el to Such a wretch’s pride and vanity.
I should have called before. Miss Rivers, but*i have had a troublesome affair with a rogue of a tenant, but I have arrested the rascal. The Sum indeed was not
great.
  mlss Harriet Nelson. 8j
great, but prudence obliged me to do it.’"
“Yes, Sir, I remember to have heard, about three weeks ago, a story of that kind. — — I am Sure my heart bled for the distress of thq little family. The sum of twenty pounds was. a trifling matter certainly; but how prudential and pralfe worthy is a due regard for money, in this extravagant age !”
I looked at him with such a penetrating air of contempt when I Said this, that I thought he changed colour. -
Suddenly turning the conversation, he asked, if he could see lady Mary, as he supposed she was III her drefling*.room.
- ^ D 6 O
$4  j or, The
O yes, I believe she is. Sir, but, if you please, 1 will go up and fee.”
I found that lovely woman fitoting in her easy chair, - Supported by pillows, with So languid and touching an air, as mush have pierced a heart of shone. Sally, was holding a Smelling bottle,, while, under pretence of adjushing,, her pillows, I Softly whispered,, “not desert yourself, my love.”
She immediately ordered Sally to show him up. He approached with a hardened countenance, and with the formality of entering a ballroom.
wvhat an unfeeling inhuman brute
histor/''of miss Harriet ndson.
brute must he be! How devoid of every Sentiment of tenderness!! the least compastionv in his countenance!
He hardly enquiredr the particu lars'of her ilinefs, but begun talking of various matters, and among ^ the rest, censured most Severely the present age for its immorality and profaneness. I was going to answer him with Some warmth, when the door opened, and the phystcian entered. Sir Harry Seized this opportunity of taking his leave, or rather making his escape; and I came up to my closet, and wrote thus far.
# # # # #
, O, Fanny! — Such a difeovery!
— what
Sfi   The
-- what an escape has my charming friend had from this wretch, and how thankful ought She to be to the supreme disposer of all events,, who has snatched her from the very brink of misery, which She must have experienced with: this vile man! short fighted mortals, as we are! when we look oni those events as most prejudicial to?, our hopes, which, by his almighty power, are calculated, inshis own good time, for our real and permanent happiness— — I must lead, in order, to the abovementioned detedlion.
After I had been scribbling yesterday to my dear Fanny, I went down to lady Mary, who told me,
She
  By
she found herself rather faint, and weary, and that she would lay down for an hour, and try to get a little steep. She begged me,, whilst she was endeavouring to gain that refreshment, to go into her little nursery of flowers, and examine her tulips. I accordingly sauntered down, but had not been gone above a quarter of an hour;; before I saw Arthur, lady mary’s, footman, riding by the parterre, (where I stood) with the utmost, haste. I called to him; he only replied, My poor lady, madam, is taken very ill again.” I hurried in you may be sure, and met the housekeeper with some burnt feathers in. her hand. She informed
me
  The ''
mv, lady Mary bad just been Seized with a strongs hysteric fitv I stew to' the afiistance of iny Sweet friend whom' they had got into hed. She continued very ill, with fainting fits, for near two hours. I was all this while ignorant of the cause, busted in my attendance on her. At last she dropped into a little fimnber on my bosom I laid her gently down when, finding her afieep, I beckoned Sally to the window, and asked her the occasion of all this.
She replied, s O madam, you.
. but just gone downstairs, and m’y lady trying to compose herself, i when she happened to Spy, under, j the chair which Sir Harry had just
left.
  8^
Ifeft, a letter; she desired me to give it to her, and held out her poor emaciated hand for that pur pose. I wisii to God he had never Seen Her! Well, madam, She took the letter, it was not Sealed, but Seemed to be wrote in readiness to go by the post; and having read about half of it, she was Seized with a violent tremor, which brought on a stong fit— — is the letter, madam.” The faithful good girl took it out of her bosoni (where she had hid it, lest in the genera! hurry it might have been made public) and I - dare answer for her that spotless seat of inno s* cence neverbefore harboured So vile astepofit.
Lput -
9® Bistrest Virtue; or. The
I put it in my pocket, and my dear friend Soon after waking, and Seeming much better. Said, “lam quite ashamed of my weakness; for a fresh proof of the cruel ingratitude of Sir Harry has stung me into this disorder“
“dear lady Mary, ’* I replied, “your spirits are weak j but let me beg, let me conjure you on my knees, to banish from your breast every remembrance of So contemptible, So despicable a wretch. He never was worthy of you. How do I bless the amazing hand of providence, who by depriving you of an imaginary good (for such is Superabundant wealth) has Saved you from the apparent misery yon
must;
 , gi
must have been plunged into, by an union with a mind s9 very base and sordid as is Sir harry’s.
I hope, ” stie Said, this recent proof of his baseness will produce a lasting good effect: though hard, very hard is it, my Lucy, to wean the Soul from its accustomed fondness. So many years of — She was proceeding, when I informed her that Sally had given me the letter. She begged I would read it, and afterwards communicate it to my Fanny; and you may here, my friend, read the vile contents.
j^‘2  The
To Mr. Patrick O’conner, - at the Bagnio, Henrietta street, Covent Garden, London.
Dear Patrick, i,,
CONGRATULATE me on mt,
having at last got rid of my long
and troublesome engagement with
my fine lady of quality;; thanks to
the old rogue her guardiair, who has
gone off with the, chief part of hers
fortune.. I had very nearly slipped
my neck into the mortifying noose L
and, shut for this glorious opportunity
of getting off, which yoi\. may
be lure I eagerly seized, 1 had been i
a lost man for ever. She sent me a
tetter full of whin in s: romantic A, :,
nonfeufe.,.
 . miss Harriet nelson.
iionsenfe. I came off honourably by pleading prudence. She bad the weakness to imagine, that this deprivation of her fortune i (the only thing thou knowest I would tie myself up for to any - one woman breathing) would not hinder our approaching union; but that I.should, with the Same rapture, take a ^ beggar to my arms, as I Should a woman worth twenty thousand pounds. Strange infatuation,! A vast acquisition I should have gained, truly! A sickly indigent woman of quality, and a house full of Squalling brats to maintain! No, no, Patrick, thou knowest me better.
Madam, forsooth, has had fits,
and
34   The
and a' violent fever upon the occasion, an please ye. A disappointment to her pride, I suppose it was, to be deprived of the new CL oaths, new coach, and all the new trumpery on these ridiculous occasions: : to mention the parade of sitting up in form a month at v/ood lay manor, to receive visits, from all the mijfes in the neighbourhood, which her poor devil of a husband must have returned with her lady stiip — but no more of her.
O Patrick, how do I long to sty privately to our old haunt, to visit that charming, delicious girl, at Mrs. crawford’s! I wish you would get me another lodging in town, I don’t much like the last :
the

the old harradan began to be de vilish troublesome, and to have her qualms of eonfcience; and was afraid for the reputation of her poor house. I beg when you get me another, it may be snug, quiet and retired; and to where no busy eye can trace my Secret steps. I enclose a bank bill in this, for my confounded Scrape in Catherine street It was a cursed affair; but we Sober, righteous fellows in the country, must be contented to pay hujh money Sometimes, to keep up appearances, or elfe adieu to all Society among the wives and daughters of my neighbouring Squires, You would laugh to see how like a saint I appear here among
, .Distressed Nirtue; or. The ^
among them. — - A. perfect pattern of prudence and sobriety— — a few words concerning little Kitty,
. I miift have that girl. She is exactly to my taste : I love that kind of girl. You tell me, you believe some art must be used— — extreme youth, and country education, indeed, will make it necestary, I Should imagine in one sort week you will be able to break her in : if not, when I come to town, I will apply to my trujiy apothecary, who has an excellent composer, ready for these occasions— — nothing of little Kitty at mother crawford’s; the fraternity there will make their market of her
before
  gy
before I can arrive, and I chuse to reap the first fruits of the little innocent myself— — fool! what a pleasure, Patrick, is the progress of Such a seduction I We must act cautiousty, for fear of a disappointment; though I leave all to thy management. Keep her, however, closely confined, and let her hear enough of that Jort of conversation which never fails to inflame the mind of a young girl of fifteen. It is absolutely impossible her friends Should trace her out. Prepare me a, lodging where I can with Secrecy convey her, and write as Soon as possible to
Yours, ch. B,
, Yol.l ■ E P. S.
  The
, P. S. There is a charming girl at Oakley park, a miss Rivers,
niece to Sir Philip P -- -- Such
a complexion! Such eyes! and Such a penetrating.look with themd ' — I have been half afraid the little fly devil would find me out. — r Adieu.
[a<fi/} stivers /« continuationt\
WHAT stlettef! — wicked, abominable wretch! — O that I costld save the poor innocent, which you see this vile hypocrite has got into his snares!! — his horrid pinip, his associate, Would render such a talk Impofiibte, Lady Mary is determined
luistt^ry of iviiss harriet nelsdn, ^9
termined tyi infitmous letter, like this, Shall not remain in the house;; yet we are resolved he Shall we have ‘disccn^eitd
him : I have therefore put it in a cover, and Sent lit to him in the cover I wrote these words:
Sir, you owe me no thanks for Sending you the enclosed infamous letter, addressed to your pander;
‘ Which you dropped 2x Oakley park, and which has excited no sensations here but the utmost: contempt and ridicule, for your vile hypocrisy, and pity for She unhappy, yotmg inriotent you. are pursuing to seduce. I flail most certainly disclose your real cha racter, in its proper light, to every ' E 2 worthy
loo   The
worthy family in this county; So advise you to retire to yom snug private lodging in Covent Garden, as Soon as possible. It is needless to add that you are forbid all intercourse with the most injured, and amiable of women, as well as with the little Jly devil, you are pleased to style
Lucy Rivers,
i hope, my dear Fanny, you like my note Lady Mary is fearful he will take Some revenge on your friend, and begs me not to Saunter too far from the house. I will
close
  miss Harriet Nelfbn loi
close this letter, and bid you adieu for this week. I am, with duty to the best of women,
My dear Fanny's
Most affectionate,
Lucy Rivers.
■
i'; L e3 EET
li Bistrest Virtue; or The
LETTER XI
mijs Lacy r1 vers,, 7^? dl'i^y Fanjiy ashby..
Oahley Parks.,
The account you give me of my dear, aunt’s ill state of health, gives me much concern. the. confisteration; however, that she has my Fanny with her, affords me. Some coniblation : • but, how indulgently, kind is that ever revered woman, to, insist on it,, that I do not leave Oakley: park,.. till my; charming friend is perfectly recovered! Ah! my Fanny,,! fear chat. whl never be !' b - •
Her
  loj
Her phyficiaa assures me, ssie has a stow fever preying on her Spirits, which, without the utmost care, will reduce So delicate a cohr. stitution as hers into a decline. She behaves with amazing forti ‘ tude, both on account of her lost fortune, and cruel usage from the basest of men. To a sensibility Such as hers, what must have been her conflicts and struggles of mind, in endeavouring, to erase a tenderness which has from her very., childhood taken its rise! I pity„ her excessively. How hard it is. to conquer so deeplyrrooted an assection, her present languishing, condition too plainly manifests, I. cannot help applying on this.oc^^ E 4.. erdion
104-'   The
cafion those admired lines of Pope's eloisa:
Of all th trials taught a lover yet,
* Sis Sure the hardest fcienee to forget.
** Ere Such a soul regains ite peaceful state.
How often must It love, how often hate!
How oft despair, relent, disdain, regret, w Hope, and complain, do all things but forget!”
m m m m #
Just returned from an airing with my lovely friend, who for the first time, has been persuaded to go out in the chariot. As we drove through the park, we were obliged to pafs a little wood, in which stands a grotto, beautifully idprned with shell flowers; all
■ the
histjarytes miss Harriet nelson, 105
the work : of : lady Mary's hands ^ and; where, being her favourite Spot; She nsed to devote with her abominable wretch, to vows of truth, and everlasting tenderness;. (as She imagined) many a happy. Sequestered hour.. At sight of the little edifice, _ I, could perceive a Soft, Silent tear trickling down her cheek.. I, took, not the least notice; but, most unfqrtunately, the coachman drqve us over the doyvns, by which means we. had the park, house,, and gardens of: Woodley fmndr before our eyes; dstting the whole time. - Certainly, such another tormenting prospect he cpuld not have cliosen.; My Sweet friend epdeavoured to. talk on indifferent F S - snbje(sts s
io.   The
Subjects: She informed, me her physician had ordered her to try, the hot well water, at Bristol, as. Soon as her strength will bear the, journey.. — I am Sure Oakley park is, of all places, the most improper for her, where every Scene must bring to her remembrance the most worthless of wretches.
I will now close this long epistle. With my duty and good wishes tcy to my aunt, I remain, my beloved' fanny’s sincere
Lucy Rivers..
L E;
!
history'osmiff Harriet nelson. iq7
L E T T E R‘ XII
Miss Lucy Rivers, tt mifnp i.m\y Ashby. ■ Odklty parl ■
At length, my dear Fanny, your truant little Lucy can. give you the pleasing assurance, that one day next week fly pro' '
the heartfelt happiness, of. feeing her beloved Friends at the Priory. How many incidents have, happened to prevent my returning. Sooner! The expected wedding of my sv/eet friend, first detained me. -- Ah!! a happiness.. her that stie escaped it! Her loss E 6 of
ic Distrcst Virtue, * or. The
of fortune, which I So much lamented for her Sake, you See was the very means of her deliverance fron> her fatal engagement: So blind are we poor mortals to the Secret hand of providence!
The same day which conveys me to' my Fanny, carries lady Mary paii: of her journey to brif tol, which She now thinks She is capable of performing; though still in a weak and languid state, she is to leave me at Marlborough, where my aunt’s coach will meet me. The infamous Sir Harry, I hear, is retired to his private haunts in London, the fittest place to hide his abandoned head in.
May you, my innocent young friend.
  miss Harriet ndson. lo^’
friend, profit, as well as your Lucy, by lady mary’s story : may we,. never give way to So exquisite a Sensibility as has made her feel So Severely : and may we ever put our trust in that providence who alone is able to extricate us from evils that Seem, - to our thinking, almost inevitable. Lady Mary must have been doomed to unspeakable misery, if the immediate hand of providence, by a chain of unlooked-for events, had' not timely saved her. — But when we meet, we will niake our moral refiedtions together, on this fub' jet j though, as I have now pen in my hand, I must indulge myself in the following favourite
Rotation; - ...
The
no   The
The ways of heav’n are dark and intricate;;
in mazes, and perplex’d with errors; Our understanding traces ’em in vain.
Lost and bewilder’d in the fruitless search;; sees with how much art the windings run,.
Nor where the regular confusion ends.”
How vostenl do we find, that what we look upon as the greatest: missortune, turns out, in the end,, to be our greatest good!.
Lady Mary has promised to write as frequently as her health will permit— — what we. feel at parting! ^ I cannot dwell on the Subject., We have been both in tears all this morning— — V I hasten
history'of missharriet nelson. iti.
I hasten to her, to enjoy the Sew more remaining hours I Shall be blessed in her company: therefore,. till we meet.
Adieu,
Lucy Rivers,
L E T.
it2r   The.
LETTER XIIL
'madfmavy Dorman a 3/^ Lucy Rivers.
jd.ot wed. Brijioh
Amidst the hurry and difiipation which attend these places of public resort, what a relief is it to my wounded mind to retire from noise and the un. meaning, tasteless amusements,,, generally go under the false name of pleasure, to converse with my dearest, my faithful Lucy!
For the first fortnight, after my arrival, I was utterly incapable of holding a pen, being confined ta
my
.Distory of miss Harriet nelson. 113
my bed by a return of my fever, occasioned by my fatigue of body and pain of mind.
Ah, my friend! how greatly does your fond partiality overrate the fancied fortitude you imagine the latter poftestres, when you have So often given me the most encouraging astiirances, that you was certain a few weeks would restore me to my former peace and Serenity! Alas 1 my Lucy, vain arc these Salutary Springs, these healing waters, to procure for me that. pleasing effect! My late — what. shall I call it? — lays heavy at my, heart. The mere effect of rash ness, or a Sudden gust of passion,
I could have forgiven; but to be..
treated
114   The treated with Such cold, deliberate, contempt! — -
There, where I had garner’d up it>y heart I” —
■ O Heavens! but reflection is madness! Pardon this little, and I hope last proof, that will ever fall from my pen, of the weakness of your poor, unhappy friend — and forgive the blot of a falling tear.
My mornings I employ in airings, among the hills and rocks 'with which this romantic spot is Surrounded : and my evenings, not in public, you may be Sure;
[ though I have once been dragged i to the rooms by lady Betty Cor.. ‘ when I thought I observed a general whisper, conscioys.
that
  miss, Harriet Nelshn.
that my unhappy story can be no longer a Secret, I imagined every eye was upon me. This suppo fitipn was the effect of fear, not of vanity, my Lucy will easily believe. Ala! what must be the perturbations of a mind eonfcious of real error when mine, innocent of the least evil intention; fears it knows not what I —
- At the roorns I was surrounded with a little circle of my acquaintance, How euriousty painful, Were there eyes h C '
“' Dear lady Mary !' have - yoitv been ill? I thought long before this, I Should have cgn^tatulated* you by anpther When is the
happpy knot to be tied?” • 1
Think
  The
Think of my extreme mortification to be thus publicly accosted. these people meant not willingly to give me pain, I sup pose; as their inquiries, I imagine, proceeded from the mere love of having Something to fay: though I observed the three Miss Pagets (who have, I make no doubte from Mrs. Seldom, who lives in Sir harry’s neighbourhood, heard all my story) with a kind of malicious fur prize, were amazed, I could So long refuse my hand to So worthy a man as Sir Harry Boastwell!”
Spiteful to an extreme are those trifling, purfe proud girls, who go rnechanically to every place of public resort, which the season: :.. offers
  t if
offers to the idle and wealthy, in hopes to meet with, what they think, the highest of all human felicities, a hujband.
Does it not appear an age to my Sweet friend since we parted? — How do I already long for a repetition of those tender, those faithful hours of confidence, we used to devote to the most unbounded friendship and affection !- — write as Speedily as possible, and believe me to be, with the sincerest regard.
Your
Unalterable friend, Mary Dorman^
P. S.
Distress: Virtue; or, The
pcs. As I have found no good effect from 'these waters, my phy ficiarr, here, thinks a farther change of air may be necessary. I followed mystvect girl, in imagination, to the Priory, after ou’f tender parting.
■ - — I still feel the tear you left pn my cheek) I wa prefeht, in idea, cat sthe meeting of your Fanny, and tishered you through a row of the "om domestics, rejoicing that you were returned in Safety to the ex ^vellent lady your aunty to whosh my respects and thanks for the invaluable treasure of your company are justly due,
1
L E Ti.
  i
LETTER XIV
Lady Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers elot wd.il.
HO W tenderly Soothing is my lucy’s kind epistle! exalted girl! how noble! how prudent your reasoning! Yes, my lovely young friend, your arguments Shall have the confiderationthey So justly merit. I never can be entirely miserable, whilst I poffefs.the Sweet treasure of my beloved lucy’s friendship.
* miss rivers’s letter does not appear, as it was no Way necessary to the chain of the history.
I told
120   The
I told you in my last letter my health was not amended; and as my complaints do not yet yield to medicine, I am advised to try what drinking goat's milk will effect, which, in obstinate latent Severs, is. esteemed an almost never-failing remedy; therefore I am going to prepare to visit the Welch mountains, for that purpose, as soon as possible. I am mightily pkased with the rural, simple kind of life I propose leading among the poor ■ innocent peasants who reside there. I must confess also, I am pleased,
- greatly pleased, with a Scheme that will not be too expensive for your poor friend’s ruined fortune t. Support. Glailiorganfhire is the county
History Gf miss Harriet nelson. i a i
.county to which I am recommended For the purity of its aia The only disheulty will be, to meet with proper accommodations., as I am to take up my abode by the fide of a mountain, for the sake of my four footed physicians. But a farmhouse will answer every end.
I shall only take one manservant, and my faithful maid with me. I have a kind of prefeniion, that this journey will be of Service, to restore the lost health and Spirits of my lucy’s poor unhappy friend
# # m m
This moment a Welch gentleii men, a Mr. Morgan, has informed, tne, I may be very agreeably situ Vou I F ated
Ill   The
ated as a boarder with an exceeding worthy clergyman of his particular acquaintance, to whom he will give me letters of recommendation. He Says the gentleman has a daughter, who he imagines may be of Some little use to me as a companion. I am much obliged to Mr. Morgan for his intelligence, and Shall Set out on my expedition in a few days. When I am arrived, my Lucy Shall hear farther from her faithfully affectionate,
Mary Dorman,
H' '
, ' T
  miss Harriiet nelson.
LETTER XV
Iady Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers..
•llandwlly^'
olacy! wherfe Shall I find words to express the sweet Situation in which I am placed? what language can I make use of to convey to you an idea of this Sequestered, this delicious Spot? But how infinitely must I fail III attempting to describe the inhabitants of this little paradise!!
worthy clergyman, whose name is Nelson, appears to be the worthiest of beings, Sensible, hu f z mane.
v24 Bistre ft Virtue; or. The
mane, and above all, adorned with that Simplicity of manners which So eminently distinguishes our revered Mr. Godwin. I find my kind host has retired to this Spot but a few years only. There is an air of politeness in his manner, which leads me to ipiagine he must have been xonverfant with people of a higher rank, than what he at present meets with in his little peaceful retirement
Not one word yet have I Said of his darling daughter, his only child, the sweet Harriet. Never did my eyes behold a form So perfectly beautiful. — Such an understanding, and Such tender fenfibl lityu — But befpre I proceed k
my
  miss Harriet Neifon. 125
my attempts todefcribe this charming girl, I will endeavour to recoiled: my Scattered thoughts to give you Some account of my journey and the situation of this excellent little family.
In order to lead to thote parti,, I must begin v/iih laying that Mr. Morgan, whose estate is in this county, and who was returning at the time I did, from the hot well, was So very obliging as to escort me the whole journey, and to conduct me Safely to the habitation of Mr. Neifon.
You Smile, Lucy. Very gallant, you say, - is this Mr. Morgan.” — But, indeed, my dear, he is an old married man; with half a ' F 3 dozen
126   The
dozen children. -- -- -- -- But, to go
on.
My good friend’s chaise attended' mine during the whole journey. When we met at our iniij he gave me a few particulars relative to the family I was so Soon to be introduced to. He informed me, Mr. nelson had met with several vicissitudes of fortune s that he had been many years reduced to a very narrow income, through the injustice and cruelty of a patron : that he had a very small living in England, which, together with this in Wales, did not bring him in above Seventy pounds a year; but that he preferred the latter situation on account of its retirement, which - -. gave
  127
gave him an opportunity of devoting his leisure hours in forming and cultivating the mind of his only child, whom he had already perfected in the P'rench and Italian languages. He added, that, small as their income was, by an admirable management, it was inconceivable how much good they dif pensed to the poor peasants in the neighbourhood.
At the end of four easy days journey we arrived at this Sweet dwelling; which is most romantically situated on the South fide of a mountain, crowned with a stately grove of oaks.; the habitation, perhaps, of Some Druids of olt On the east, is a natural F 4.. cascade,
128   The
eascade, falling from same craggy rocks into a river, which winding, loses itself, among meadows, covered with lowing herds of cattle; and on, the west., is a number of little hamlets,, inteffperfed among, the trees. An old ruin of St. sid welfs abbey terminates the view on that fide,, which is of itself one of the most beautiful prospects I ever beheld. In the front of the house, which is only two stories high, and a mere cottage it certainly is, though neat to a degree of elegance, is a little green kwa,. planted with flowering Shrubs and evergreens. On one fide, is a Small, but useful garden, chiefly cultivated by the hands of its excellent
isistory osmiss Harriet nelson. 129
excellent owner, the produce of which is, in a great measure, distributed to his poor neighbours, to whom he is the sincere friend, father, and physician. On the other fide of this Small lawn is a little wilderness of blooming roses, and fiowers of various dyes, which leads to an hermitage, built, with roots of trees and moss, and quite over grown; with ivy. Near it runs a clear trout stream on the banks of which, ^ are Several Small benches under the Shades of old oaks, ‘vimpervious to the noonday. heat.” But here 'the iovdy Harriet interrupts me, hy afking if I please to walk down to look ac thebees. to mor, r0wrwillipndc@edl>
'- F 5 " Mr.
130   The
m m m m m Mr. Morgan had, by letters, Set ^ tied all matters relative to my coming here. On my arrival, which was in one of the finest evenings my eyes ever beheld, everything around me Seemed an enchantment. At the entrance of the little peaceful dwelling, stood the venerable owner of it, with his blooming daughter by his fide. I was led into a Small room, the neatness of which is inconceivable, and in which I was furprised to see a harpsichord, a pair of globes, and a book cafe, filled with works of the best authors. My good friend, who had accompanied me this little paradise, soon took
his
 'miss Harriet nelson. 13r
his leave, in order to purfste his journey to his own Seat, which is but a few miles from hence.
I had now time to take a more exact Survey of the Sweet girl, who had at first sight highly attracted my notice. I have never before Seen so beautiful and exprefiive a countenance. Her Shape is elegant: her dress plain and negligent: nor could the round eared cap conceal the profusion of her fine hair. With what fond attention did She. watch her father’s every look! her address to me, though really polite, was at first, through her natural timidity, diffident, and Seemed attended with a fear of offending me; but I hope. a Short time will wear, F 6 off
 i or. The
off all kind of restraint. After a' neat little repast,, which'gonfisted of the produce of their garden and. small farm; and when Lhad heard the delightful Harriet play a lesson; on the harpsichord, whose execution on that mstrument I own amazed me, I proposed retiring to my apartment; when the good man; nshed : me if it would be agreeable: to me to be present at the custom he always observed in his little family,, of addrestingl his heavenly maker;, a general prayer and thanksgiving, at the hour of retiring to rest? You may be assured, Lucy,. b o pr opofal could be more agrees able to me.. Their attendants,, which: are only oae fervmt maid,
S an4f:
 f miss Harriet nelson. rj jr
and a boy, who afiists in the garden,, with mine, formed our little assembly. With what fervour,, and true devotion,, did the good man, kneeling in the midst of us, addrcfs the iuprertie dlfpofer of all events! his mlccelicnt form of prayer, and solemn delivery of it, much affetsted me: The lovely Manfiet, soon after, conducted me to my apartment, the neatness of which I find myself utterly incapable of deferibing. It was ornamented with some beautiful l&ndfcapes in watercolours;. which, on my astdng by whom they were; executed, the sweet ^ girl idshrmed me they were some at^ uf her own. Under this’
; humble;
134.   The
humble roof, and in my \in\6white bedy the curtains and quilt of which are the work of Harriet's hand, I enjoyed a Sweet repose, to which I have been some months a stranger. In the morning I perceived I had slept in a kind of arbour; my window, for I have only one, being almost covered with jasmine and honey Suckles. My lucy’s dear heart, I know, will rejoice at my most happy situation'
'do I find this air of great Service to me; of which, I imagine, I need give you no greater proof than the length of my letter, which I think, for a Jick per ^. forty is of a comfortable lengthy It has been my amusement for th
whole

whole week. Write, my dear friend, and tell me, your affectioii is as lasting as is that of
Your faithful
And sincere
Mary Dormajt;
• LET --
.  Of,. The:
L E T T £ R XVI
Mary Dorman Lucy Rivers.
Llandwellyi' ■
iknev/ itiy ever amiable, my dearest friend, who has Sc kindly participated in all my Sorrows, would a sincerely rejoice in riiy present delightful situation, and iit the prospeo: of my amended health. You defirc me to be very circumstantial; and as writing to my Lucy is my chief amusement,.
I Shall devote an hour, every morn to my pen.'
  137
As I have now been in my Sweet retirement for near three weeks, I have had Some leisure to observe, more minutely, the excellence of this worthy little family. how am I delighted and affected to see the loveliest of maids, every day, with her own hands disperfing to the poor indigent wretches, who inhabit the. cottages around us, the remain of our wholesome but frugal meal 1 At those times She appears as a ministering angel.” She tells me it is owing to my bounty ihe is enabled to do this 5, but, indeed, I aferibe no merit to myself on the occasion.
Did I tell you, my Lucy, that my uncle has generoufiy Sent me
twa
1-3s   The
two banknotes of fifty pounds each? He says, travelling is expensive. Kind this, is it not I One of these notes I shave presented to Mr. Nelson, as a return for the expense and trouble she may be put to on my account, and on that of my two attendants, during the four months I have agreed to remain here. I thought this a better method of rewarding Mi.. Nelson, than that which is usually made on these occasions. When I presented him with the note, the good, man looked Surprised, and Said it was too much; but after a little contest, I got the better. I am; sensible my being here must make an extreme alteration in his manner
  miss Harriet Nelshn. 1-3^
ner of living, and could not be easy if I thought the excellent man would not be a Small gainer by his,, guest.
You beg, my Lucy, I will send you an account how we Spend our time. Here it follows. One day.
So regular and peaceful do our hours stow, will be Sufficient to give you an idea of the whole. The happy little family assemble together at eight in the morning; when Mr.; nelson reads prayers. After this shlemn office, I ride through a romantic hanging wood, to a farm, where I drink my goat’s milk, which has been already extremely beneficial. In the meantime, Harriet, in fpitc of all I can say,.
will
f43>  . The
will afiist in preparing our breakfast, which we ufuaily take, as the weather is hot, in a delightful Spot called the honeysuckle bower in the midst of the wilderness. After which repast, Harriet and I make it our bufiness to vific a few cottages every morning, which we take in our rounds, to inspect with our own eyes into the various wants and distrestes of their poor inhabitants. Heavens! what transport does it convey to a breast of any fenfihilky, to wipe away the languid tear from the pale face of fickness !’ to see the Shining eyes of a train of little helpless children, : thanking us for bread! and to lean the lisping tongue of prattling in fancy.
  Mils Harriet Nelshn. 141
fancy, rejoicing at our approach! these, my Lucy, are hearll felt joys. Did the idly great, who lavish Such immeiise Sums on use less pleaiures; did they but know the. transport we feel at the parting with a bit of Sordid ore to a poor industrious family they would owhi how greatly oux pleasures are to be preferred to theirs. Often when I enter the little roof less cottage, do these words of a favourite author occur to my mind“ “patient, quiet, honest people, fear not; your poverty, the treasury of your simple virtues, will not be envied you by the world, nor will your valleys be in * Sterne Sentimentai Journey.
vaded
142   The
vaded by it. -- -- Nature! in the
midst of thy disorders, thou art still friendly to the scantiness thoa hast created: — With all thy great .works about thee, little hast thou left to give, either to>the Scythe or to the fickle.’*
When the dear Harriet and I return from our rambles, during which, her excellent parent is amusing himself in the cultivation ‘ and management of his little garden, we commonly retire to the ‘hermitage; or, in the extreme heat, enjoy the cooling breeze under a large Spreading oak, employing ourselves at our needle in making a few necestary parts of raiment for the poor; whilst one. ‘ of
15istoty of miss harrietnelfon. 14^;
of us reads in Some improving or elegant author. After dinner we commonly have a little concerts You are amazed, no doubt, how that can be on the fide of a Welch mountain. I will tell you my dear.
Mr. Nelson, I find, has been a great performer on the violincello, and has a perfect knowledge of music. Harriet and I play alternately on the harpsichord, and Join in Singing a great number of duets, how inexpressibly Sweet her voice!! her good father accompanies us on the instrument before mentioned, as does incomparably well, a gentleman in the neighbourhood on the violin. — -*
Do
144 “  The
Do you not envy us our concert? — aster which we drink tea, and perhaps take a fillabub by the fide of the cow, in Some Sweet seques tered Spot 5 or, perhaps, wander to the old abbey I mentioned. Brown bread, with cream and fruits, which, by harriet’s skill in preparing various agreeable ways, make the whole of our simple repast of Supper, ^ the day is ended as we began it, in praises and thanksgivings to our great ere 'ator.
You ask ** where did this lovely girl, this Harriet, acquire her accomplishments of music, drawing, and her needlework?” ?” row I will inform you, but must
%
kutery of miss Harriet Nelson. 145
lay down my weary pen for the present.
^ m m *. #
I now am Set down to tell you, from the general difeourfe I have gathered, that Harriet was, a few years ago, for along time, with a very worthy woman of fashion in the neighbourhood of Bristol, ' and to whom stie is obliged for the attainment of many of her fine accomplishments. Upon the lady's leaving England, She retired to this Spot with her father, to whom She is a perfect pattern of filial duty.
, How beautiful a sight is it to see one of the most lovely of women, on her knees affisting her aged vol. I. G parent
146   The
parent in putting on his slippers! — I have never heard a word but once concerning her mother. — Dead, I imagine. She must be; for Harriet just one day hinted She had long been deprived of a tender
mother’s indulgence. -- -- -- A tear
stealing down her cheek, I dropped the Subject.
So your Fanny, a sly girl, whilst you imagined her, during your absence, to be nursing your flowers and Canary birds, had an amuse ment She did not acquaint you with; a lover I find; whom even your aunt approves; a sir Richard Audley. His character, I have heard, is unexceptionable. — But what of that ^ have I not Teafon, deceived,
 -*47
deceived, mistaken as I have been, to doubt the character of every man?
This moment I am called away by Harriet, to astist her in nursing a little dying kid, that had strayed from its dam, and was found at the foot of the mountain— — come, my sweet girl : but first let me feal and send away this packet. Adieu, my excellent friend, and believe me, yet how neediest is that affurancej to be your
Tenderly affectionate
Matiy Dormajt,
G 2 L E T
14^   The
LETTER XVII
Lady Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers.
llandwchy.
E S, my dear Lucy, the me lancholy news you had heard of my excellent parent, the good old lady .Dowager .Dorman, was too true j Heaven was pleased to take to itielf, above a month ago, I find, that best of women. The good Mr. Godwin informs me, that She expired without a groan : her attendants imagined She was in a Sweet steep. This event happened whilst She was sitting in her
chair,
  i4‘9
chair, and had been reading for Some time, a discourse of Dr. tii lotfon on Resignation. She had I been uncommonly cheerful the whole day before, and Said she hoped her dear girl would soon return to her fond arms in perfect health.. You know it was impossible at last for us to conceal part of my disorder from her; hut if I had reason to believe, the cruel usage with which the most wicked of men has treated me, had come to her knowledge, I should be inconsolable, as Tknow it would have been too great a shock for her to bear; but of that, I find, she was perfectly ignorant. Her age was great and the lamp of life: was G 3 quite.
150   'The
quite exhausted. May cur latter | end be like hers! '
I must now for ever bid adieu to Sweet Oakley park. Alas! how fast do Succeeding misfortunes crowd on your poor friend!. — O Lucy,
I blusti to read my last Sentence.
- — Ought I not to rejoice. Selfish wretch as I am, that this best of women is gone to meet the due reward of her exemplary goodness and piety; is now admitted into the glorious company of saints tstid angels? — Begone, therefore, far ' from me every latent wish that She might have been longer detained amorig us in this vale of ' misery
^ ^ ^ « * *

  151
This evening I have had a most affecting conversation with the exr cellent Mr. nelson, who has rcr lated to me his whole history; the particulars of which I will endeavour to inform my Lucy of as mi nutelyas postible.
Harriet being gone to visita poor Sick child, and the evening being remarkably fine, I Sauntered out towards the little hermitage; where, being Seated, my worthy friend Soon joined me. After Some general conversation, he Said, he hoped I now began to find the Salutary esteds of the excellent air of Llandwely in regard to my recovery. I replied, that my health was amazingly better, and that t G 4’ pe^ce,
IJ2, Bistrest Virtue; or. The
. peace and Serenity of mind could not fiiil of attending every inhabitant of his dwctling. And indeed” ” addvd, “I think it almost impossible for any persoii in this deliglitsul abode, to Suffer a melancholy idea to arise.”
‘‘ Ah, my good lady Mary, ” he replied, with a deep sigh, which Seemed to rend his vqiy soul, how greatly are you mistaken! Even the unhappy man before you is aw'itness of the contrary. How rich would be indeed my portion of happiness, were it not for one bitter drop which poisons the whole! Blessed as I am with my lovely child, and endeavouring as I have been for a number of years'
to
  153
to an entire resignation to the will of heaven, — yet, my dear young, lady, still, — for my dearest, my
lost Louisa- -- -
he stopped, the tears trickling down his reverend cheeks.
“Death, Mr. Nelson, we must ■ all Submit to.” '’
“Ah!” he returned, “I could with pleasure shave resigned her to heaven, but the cruel uncertainty of her fate— — fiavery. Shipwreck! -- To what misery may stie not have been reduced! Gracious Heaven! -- Buto God! thy will be done.” — Then, afterapause;
-- ]3y. tender curiosity
which Speaks in every feature of my charming friend, ” he was'
G 5 pleated 1
3 54 .Distress Virtue; or, The
pleased to Say, ‘‘ perhaps a recital of the various Scenes of my life may not be disagreeable.”
I assured him, if the tassc would not be painful to himself, I was too much interested in all which concerned him, not to be anxious to hear the cause of his misfoistiines. — After a few ssghs, and endeavouring to recollect himself, he began as follows.
“My father was a man of a plentiful fortune in the north of England, and he had only two Sons. My brother was Some years older than myself; but, from the unfortunate circumstance of my ■ 'mother’s expiring in the pangs of childbirth, when I was brought
into
  155
into the world, my father conceived a kind of pity for my help less infancy, in being so early deprived of the tenderness, of a fond mother, which soon discovered itself in a partiality for all my little words and actions.. He was, however, too just a man to fuster that partiality to injure my brother in any ' respect. I Should not have, mentioned this circumstance, did I not really believe it to have been the cause of all the unkind usage I have met with from this unnatural relation.
We had an excelleilt private tutor in my father’s house for a eonfiderable time, but at length, were remoyed to a public school,,, 6> where, ^
15.6   The
where, as I discovered an early application, to letters, and consequently met with approbation, I am Sorry to Say, my brother’s envy Soon discovered itself by a thousand ill natured actions. — But not to tyre your ladysliip with a recital of those childish days, nor of what I Secretly Suffered through his repeated unkindneffes, we were at the usual time Sent to Oxford, where I, having a strong propensity to learn music, and the fine arts, had there an excellent opportunity of gratifying my inclination; but I have great reason to believe my father was Secretly informed I neglected my studies on that account. About this time my brother took orders:
Sorry
  157
Sorry am I to Say, I fear from aa avaricious motive, afriend of his having, a living, in his gift... My father's fortune, as I before said, was: large, but it laid chiefly in the public funds.' He had formerly acquired it by several voyages to the East-indies. Soon after my brother had taken postestion of his living, which was near my father's Seat, I received the following letter which gave me inexprestible grief.
Dear Brother,.
IT is with much concern I acquaint youythat my good father is
no
158   The
no more. About a week ago, in j crofiirig the Ford, the waters being ' out, he was unfortunately drcwned. You will, I doubt not, be Surprised (as you was So apparently his favourite child) to .find that, by his will, he has only left you. one thousand pounds, and that the residue wfith house, che has bequeathed to me j but, pofiibly, it was done vv^ith a view of atoning; for the Secret injufice he has formerly Shown me. -- I advise you to get into orders, as Soon as possible, and 1 will use my interest to obtain you a curacy, being.
Dear brother.
Your real friend,.
S. Nelson,.
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 159-
It is impofiible to tell your,, ladyship, ” continued the good man,
“how much this cruel letter afflicted me. Grief for one of the. best of men, and resentment for the ungrateful sarcasm flung out. against the best of fathers, not. without a violent suspicion of my having been unjustly dealt with, in regard to the wstf/ reduced me to a state of the utmost despondency,, wrote to him, and having received my little pittance of a thousand pounds, I begged a friend of mine in London to procure for me a chaplainihip in' some of our British Settlements abroad; which having obtained, I went to Aleppo to take possession of it,
where
x6o^   Or, The
where I resided very agreeably for upwards of twelve years; at the end of which, I returned to my native country. Oil my arrival in London, I wrote to my brother, who had a little before married a vroman of large fortune; but not receiving any answer, I applied to
the earl of S- -- -- -, whom I
had lived in great intimacy at Oxford, for his leave to attend his only Son, lord B -- —, as private tutor; in Short, to take upon me the whole care of his education. With joy the earl accepted my propofai; constituting me at the same time his domestic chaplain.
. r had a handsome salary allowed me,, and enjoyed many advantages.’*'
But.
Hiiory’ of Mils Harriet nelson. it
But here, Lucy, the gentle God of stmnbcr Softly creeping over my eyelids, I must obey his glad liim ffions : therefore I will leave the, femaimng. part of Mr. nelfon’s adventures till to morrrow; So good night to my dear girl.
# m .# # m.
I now resume Mr. nelson’s story as nearly as I can, in his own words.
“In this nobleman’s family, I
lived till lord B -- had arrived to
the age of eighteen; at vrhich time it was judged proper he Should make the tour of Europe. As f had a perfect; knowledge of the French and Italian languges, the
earl,,
isi Distress: Virtue; or. The
earl desired I would attend him on his travels, and after visiting Several courts, we arrived at Leghorn.
One evening lord B -- -- -- having
been absent Some hours, as I was pairing through a street, I heard the dreadful cry of murder. I stew to the relief of the distressed person, but how was I astonished to see my young pupil assaulted by three ruffians, and who had almost overpowered him! I rushed in amongst them, and, at the extreme peril of my own life, rescued that of my friend. I begged him to fiy, which he instantly did, and that I would myself, for his sake, oppose these villainous wretches to the utmost of my abilities.
For
  163
For a few moments I endeavoured what I could to defend myself; but alas! my rest stance was in vain; for I vas instantly run through the arm, and after receiving two dangerous wounds on my head, the villains left me weltering in my blood.
Some gentlemen pasting by at that very time, and hearing my groans, came up to me when I was almost expiring. One of them humanely ordered me to be taken to his house, which was in the next street. I have not any recol ledlion what pasted that dreadful, night, having been deprived of my senses through my great loss of blood. The Surgeon, who was
ealleti
i54 Distrcst Virtue; or. The
called ill to attend me, informed my kind host that my wounds vv^ere of the most dangerous nature. When I was able to Speak, I informed them of my connexion with
lord B -- -- -- -. He was Sent for
immediately, and profelted the utmost gratitude for what he was pleased to call my noble behaviour, in his defence,.
One day he informed me, that he had just received a letter from his father,, desiring his immediate return to England on Some bufiness of emergency relative to an estate lately left him, and that he could take the opportunity of returning .with two young'englisti noblemen the. following week.
After..'
historyof miss Harriet nelson. 165
After reading the letter, I found his departure was absolutely necessary • as my surgeon informed him that probably it would be many weeks before my cure
could be completed, lord B -- -- -- -- -
prepared for his returning home' without me, and took a most affectionate leave. He, assured nie, at parting, he Should represent my gallant behaviour (as he termed it) to his father in the strongest terms; which he faithfully did : for in ten weeks I received a letter from the earl himself, thanking me for Saving the life of his fon; that he should never forget the obligation he lay under, and promised, when
the living of N -- -- -- became void,
a living
i66   The
^ a living of five hundred a year, I should be presented to it; and in the letter was enclosed a bank note of one hundred pounds, as an earnest of his future friendship.
My recovery proceeded very slowly, though nothing could equal the kind care of the worthy gentleman at whose house I was. He had formerly been an English merchant, but was now fettled at Leghorn : his name was Southby. - — He had a daughter. — Ah! lady Mary, I am now going to relate ■ the most heartfelt part of my Sorrows. -- -- -- His lovely Louisa was
charming in her person;; mind was richly adorned with every virtue; her education had been uncommonly
  167
commonly good; and She was a perfect mistress of every polite accomplishment.
This lovely creature, when I was able to bear company, in the presence of her mother, would sit and read to me, or accompany her lute with her melodious, voice : to be brief, I became passionately in love with her; and, notwithstanding the disparity of years, I had the exquistte pleasure of finding I was equally beloveff — Delightful remembrance! still let me cheristi those once happy moments! Mr, Southby approved our growing passion, but informed me, that, by his unavoidable misfortunes, Louisa had little other fortune than
her
1.6.8  5 .or, Though
her accomplislimejnts; but the certain prospedt I had of being provided for in England, made him v ery readily accept the proposal I made of being united to his lovely daughter in marriage, as soon as my recovery should be thoroughly cq.mpleted, I wrote an account of this to lord B —, who returned a polite answer, that he wislied me all poshble happiness; but that he should not have any farther occasion for my attendance, being, himself, on the point of marriage, with an heiress of a very large fortune.
In about two months I was married to my charming louisa; and as her father was dote ingly fond of her, he prevailed
on
  169
on us to stay with him Some time at Leghorn: in Short, our days pasted away, or rather stew on the wings of love. In the first twelvemonth my lovely wife made me a, happy father to the little Harriet. And Soon after heaven was pleased to take the good Mrs., Southby to itself. Her excellent husband never recovered this stroke, but fell into a declining state, in which it was impostible for us to leave him. At the end of four years, I proposed, his disorder growing worse, our return to England with this excellent parent, in hopes that he might find relief from some of our medicinal waters. Accordingly we intended embarking by the first vol. I. H ship;
lyo   The
Ship; but, after Some deliberation, it was thought most advifeable for Mr. Southbjtostay till the return of the spring, and that I, with part of our family stiould come first to England, to prepare a proper place of reception for that beloved parent; and my dearest wife, who was determined to stay, to attend him in his voyage, with the tenderest care, as jiis declining health required it.
‘‘fatal determination! -- -- How shall
I describe our parting, though, to appearance, the certain profpest of our meeting in less than three months, in some measure alleviated the pangs of Separation .^ In an evil hour then I embarked, with a man and maidservant, and my
dear
  171
dear little Harriet j alas! poor child! never, never more to behold her amiable mother!'’
Here, my Lucy, the husband, father and friend, was for Some moments filent.
“I imagined, my dear young lady, by bringing my child first to England, withpartof our family, my adorable louifa’s cares in her voyage would be lessened. Cheered with that hope, I Set sail, and with the most prosperous winds arrived in a few weeks in the entrance of the channel, when a violent storm arose which drove us rapidly towards the Shore, near the lands end. How Shall I relate our dreadful distress!! it to say, we H 2 were
172   The
were Split upon a rock, and every soul perished, excepting two men, myself and child. With the violence of the waves, I was again washed into the ocean, where, for Some moments, with my darling little daughter fast locked in one of my arms, I struggled for life. She Smiled upon me, with a cherub’s sweetness. Excuse me, I will not distress my good young lady’s heart any further, with this tender Scene.”
Do you think I did not weep, my Lucy ^ Indeed I did, — Pray, sir, go on.
Another wave stung me, with my precious charge, on the coast of Cornwall, when Some fishermen
on
  173
on the Shore carried us to their huts, and Supplied us with food for several days; and at length they conducted me to Falmouth, where a friend of mine was fettled. I here hired an attendant for my Sweet child, and left her with my friend’s wise, while I pursued my journey to London.
‘‘ The first thing I did, on my arrival in the metropolis, was, to wait on the earl, who received me. politely, and Seemingly with the warmth of a friend, but said not a syllable concerning the living; and upon my inquiry after his fon,. he informed me that lord B — — was gone to the german Spa. The next time I waited on the earl, I.
II 3 ventured.
j74 Distress Virtue; or. The
ventured to mention my expeda tions : his lordship very civilly, desired me to call again, pleading great bufiness at the time.
“Thus was I amused for about a month, and not to tyre your ladyship with a repetition of anything so common as a breach of promise in the great world, I then began to suspect my hopes would prove fallacious. Some time after this, I met the earlis steward, who acquainted me, his lordship was Surprised that I should take in a literal sense, a common compliment of politeness, and begged to hear no more of it, on pain of his displeasure. He added, the earl thought he had abundantly rewarded
  175
warded me in the bank note he had Sent to Leghorn, for refeuing lord B -- -- -- from the affafiins.
Your lady Ship may be certain that I Solicited the earl no further; for the promised living, on which I had laid Such a stress, and which, indeed, was my whole dependence, I found had been given away Some months before.
** I then applied to my brother, who received me in another manner than what his lordship did, being neither civil or polite, but with the utmost coldness and in differency. He afterwards pretended to be extremely angry that I had married without acquainting him, more especially as I had H 4 written
176   The
written to him by every opportunity.
‘‘ At length, young lady, I got a curacy near town. — But what was my astonishment, my grief, when six months had pafited, and my dearest wife and father not arrived! 1 wrote to Leghorn, and received an answer from an acquaintance there, that he was amazed my friends were not already with me, for that they had embarked three months before. — Alas !- — gracious heaven! no more was I to behold those dear objects .of my tenderest affection!! —; of my misery, my distradion, when a twelvemonth palted, and I received no tidings! Nor could I discover
  177
discover any traces of them from the most diligent search: : from that day to this, I am totally ignorant of their fate— — I sure that heaven had taken them to itself, I Should be resigned; but the dreadful uncertainty — Yet,. O God! thy will be done.
My lovely child was the delight of all who knew her. I had her conveyed to me. I wept over her with a distress which no language can paint. Frequently would She hang upon my neck, and ask what I had done with her
dear mama } -- -- Think, madam,
my exquisite distress!!
extreme melancholy and anxiety brought me soon into a H 5 very
lys  j or. The
•very declining state of health,, for which I was advised to try the hot well at Bristol. Thither I ^ went, attended by my little Harriet, who was now my only remaining comfort.
‘‘ miss Bushy, a worthy lady, who was then at the Wells, would frequently take notice of my sweet ehilsh She often fentfoi her, and from frequently keeping her for whole weeks together, she, at length, requested that she might, for a few years, have the entire management of her education, under her ov/n eye. So generous an offer I was overjoyed to accept; as it began to be absolutely necef firy for her to receive Some kind
of
ktistbry of^miss Harriet nclson. 179)
ef instruction'proper for Her Sex: at that early age she gave proofs of a surprising genius. — Excuse; dearest madam, the fond partiality of a doting parent.
“With this excelient lady’ my Harriet Gontiiiued for upwards of eight years; during which time she was instructed, by the best masters, in the various accomplishments in which your ladyship is pleased to say she excels.
“By the interest of miss Bushy r was presented to a small living in Buckinghamshire, and likewise to this of Llandwelly, which preferring on account of its air, and some other advantages, I have, above six years, resided here eh h 6. tirely
I So   The
tirely; about which time my Sweet Harriet joined me in my retirement, miss Bushy, at that period, marrying a gentleman of a large estate, and who has since taken her to the West-indies. Here I enjoy the Sweets of retirement and innocence, blessed with the most dutiful and tender of children; but the uncertainty of the fate of my dearest wife is a Secret grief, which inceltant’y preys upcin my heart.”
Here the good. Mr. Nelson was silent— — was just going to an swer, when the arrival of the Sweet Smiling Harriet, for the present, prevented all farther discourfe.
I have been a whole week, at times, my Lucy, writing the
above
  ii
above narrative; therefore do not wonder that you have not heard before from her, who is, and will be, ever her lucy’s
Most faithful,
Mary Dorman.
For the Space of the two following months, many more letters pasted between lady Mary and miss Rivers; but as nothing remarkable happened during that time, they are not infer ted. Lady Mary, Soon after, wrote to her friend as follows :
L E T.
rs’2 ■   The
LE T T E R XVIII
Mary Dorman, to Mijs Lucy Rivers.
Llandwell^,
Not even the declining season of the year can rob this Sweet Spot of its native beauties. The various Shades, at this time, which appear among the leafy groves on the neighbouring mountains, are inexpressibly beautiful. Ah, Lucy! how Shall I be able to leave this delightful girl! this lovely Harriet! About a month hence I must begin to think of my departure,
I am
  i8 j
I am just returned from a morn' ' ramble, with this dear girl, to a favourite (and esteemed by the inhabitants, here, a Sacred) Spot, called SL winnifved.s Well. The situation is romantic beyond all description : it is in a valley between two mountains. The poor peasants believe the water of this well to be a Sovereign remedy III many disorders, and an ancient inhabitant has Seriousty desired me to try it; but as I want faith, I have declined the experiment, though I much revere the kind old man who prescribed it. The young maids of the neighbouring village, every may-day, bring here their garlands of flowers, and dance
round
184   The -
round an ancient oak, which is at the entrance of the well; round which is a pavement of stone, and kept with great care.
Whilst we were returning from our little walk, I had a very interesting difeourfe with my amiable young friend.
Do you not think, lady Mary, ” Said She, “that my dear father, for these few last weeks, visibly declines in his health Alas, I fear I Shall soon be deprived of the best of parents.”
I own I had Sometime perceived an alteration in his looks, but did not tell her So. I only Said, ‘‘at his time of life, you know, my dear, many disorders come stealing on with the hand of time.” “Ah,
  185
Ah, lady Mary, how destitute must be the condition of the poor
Harriet, if --
I would not Suffer her to proceed, asturing her, I thought She had great reason to hope still for the continuance of a number of years, with this, beloved parent; and begged her to rely entirely on that eternal Providence, who alone could protect her in all future distress.
This moment I see Mr. Morgan alighting at the gate; I must hasten down to welcome that kind and worthy friend.
%’*****
A lucky
j86   The
A lucky incident, as I am in hopes it will prove to Mr. nelson, has been the means of bringing Mr. Morgan here.
His Second Son, a fine promising youth, he is fixedly determined to bring up to merchandise, and for that purpose intends Settling him with a merchant at Leghorn. He most earnestly begs, by every tie of friendstiip, that Mr, nelson will take the trust of this youth upori him; and as he often has heard him express the utmost desire once more to visit Leghorn, in hopes of hearing Some traces of the fate of his beloved wife, and her excellent parent, he imagined he might be glad of this favourable opportunity
  18/
nity of making the long wished for inquiry, upon the very Spot > and that he Should amply reward him for the trouble he Should undertake in the care of his Son; and that, in his absence, he would defray the expense of a curate at Llandwelly.
At the very mention of Leghorn, I saw a Sudden fiush of joy arise in the, before, melancholy countenance of my revered friend; who replied, “I Should joyfully accept the propofalbut where, during my absence, can I bestow my dear, my darling child
I assured him I would place her in Some worthy family, which the connexions I have with people of
rank.
i88   The
rank, would make it very easy for me to do, till his return; and that I thought his visiting Leghorn, where he might in all probability make Some discovery, relative to the affair which lay So heavy at his heart, was too eligible a proposal to be slighted“
“” he replied, my louisa, 1 may perhaps once more be united to thee! — But Oh, how Shall I part with my dear, my beloved Harriet ?”
She instantly flung herself at his feet, and clinging round his knees, in treated that not a thought of her might interfere.
“My dearest father, let your Harriet beg, let her conjure you,
to
  189
to divest yourself of every painful Solicitude on her account. I am blessed with health, and my dear lady Mary will assist me with her friendship : — will you not, lady Mary?” Oh! think, dearest Sir, of my poor wretched mother! think what may be her unhappy condition! perhaps now wandering in fqme distant clime, bereft of every comfort!”
I could not stand this very affecting scene;; hastily leaving the room, retired into the little wilderness, where. Soon after, Mr. Morgan joined me; when he informed me, that, after some consultation, Mr. Nelson was come to a determination to pursue the proposed

Ipo   The
posted Scheme. We agreed it would be both an amusing and a profitable voyage, as well as of the utmost Service to his health, which we concluded, were his mind at ease, would be Soon perfectly restored: and I had the inexprefiible hap piness, this evening, of feeing the worthy good man enjoying a stow of spirits to which I have never before been a witness— — Lucy! how does every, the most distant belief, of what our hearts in this world are eagerly fixed on, contribute to our delight! and how amazing are the effects of hope, to a mind long tortured by despair! As the poor druwning wretch is glad to catch at the least hold
But
  191
But I am interrupted here in my reflections.
m m m m m
[Lady Mary Dorman in continuation
HOW does this amiable girl rise every moment in my esteem! She • has been desiring me, with the most exprestive earnestness, and I may add even eloquence, to inquire for her, a Safe and quiet asylum, during the abfcence of her dear parent, amongst Some of my numerous acquaintance. — But do not, my dear lady Mary, place me among very great folks. You know I have a little ingenuity, and, if I am blessed with health, shall do extremely
192   The
tremely well, ” — Saying this, she tripped away.
How am I distressed, my dear Lucy, that I cannot afford her myself a persoiial protection! I think I never felt a more vexatious fensa tion, than I do at this time, in reflecting, Such you know are my perplexing circumstances, that I have it not in my power to take her entirely to live with me. You know your poor friend must be doomed for the future to be a kind of wanderer herself. From a letter I received last week from my uncle, I find he infists upon my making his house my chief abode, ^ wheii I have finished, as he expresses it, my present rambles; and it would
be
  Mils Harriet nelson. 193
be highly improper to take Harriet with me there, as his Son constantly resides with him, and is, excepting one I could name, a young man of the worji charatster with regard to our Sex. How can I then, with Safety, carry this young creature into So dangerous a situation, her loveliness So very attradlive? I must not think of that — let me lay down my pen and confider. — Some good
old lady. -- -- -- But I must take a
Solitary walk to the Hermitage, for there is room for meditation.
# # # # #.
This moment an opportunity offers of, sending this long epistle, which with a hundred loves I dif vol. L I patch
1, 54,   The
patch to my Lucy, and beg she will believe
I am.
Her tenderly affectionate,
Mary Dorman^
I
LET
Histdry'of liss Harriet nelson. 195
LETTER XIX
Lads Mary Dormkff, so Miss Lucy Rivers.
Lladdwflly.
it 't E NORTHEAST ROUS Lucy! how kistd yoitr offered assistance to my ateiable Harriet! but, with rhy usual frankness, I miist say, I cannot think the family you riieri tion quite. the proper fituaticn for her. Lady Sylvester is an agreeable wbmah, but there i's a capri cioufiiess in her temper, arid a certain haughtiriefs in her m'annct, Which I aria pbfitive would frighten I 2 the
19^ Dlstrest Virtue; or. The -
the gentle timid Harriet out of her little writs.
For goodness Sake, my Lucy, for harriet’s, and for your own, take Some compassion on your poor, sighing lover. Sir James more worth, .Deny it as long as you will, I am persuaded you love him; therefore, prithee marry him, and then Harriet Shall go and live with you. — — But raillery apart, for I know you are as cruel as a tygrefs, I must choose Some other protection for this charming girl.,
After mature deliberation, I have at last fixed upon writing to Mrs. Bromley, of Bromley Abbey — She is my godmother, and a woman of the most exemplary piety,
and
  miss Harriet Nelshn. 197
and extensive benevolence; in short, ' Bromley Abbey is the Seat of peaceful hospitality. There will my Sweet Harriet be free from the Snares which, in the gay world. Such beauty and innocence would be too Soon; perhaps, made a prey of. — Mrs. Bromley, though rather advanced in life, still preserves her taste for music, and the polite arts, in which, in her youth, she greatly excelled. She has had a young lady with her, for many years, in the station of a companion, who is lately married; and, I recollect,, has been sometime endeavouring to hear of Some other amiable' young person to Supply her place. Was ever anything so lucky, ' - i I 3 Lucy,
J 98 distitst Virtue; or, The
Lucy, as this agreeable fituatiani. I congratulate myself on the thought. Whp knows, but that So roe fu ture, ad V an^gp may accrue to the, dear girl,. if any accident dhould happen tot rny r^ye^red Mr. N el Son;. for Mrs. Bromley pos, fesses a very large fortune a, nd ha the will and po\yer of liestowingr it as fire pleases.
Mr. Nelson has been three days stt Mr. morgan’s Settling all matters relatiye to thg intended; expedition. I have been preparing a; few little ornaments for Harriet, though her beauty is beyond any; gnd likewise have Sent to my mercer in town for Some Silks, which I intend to. present her. I am almost

  199
most certain Mrs. Bromley will, with pleasure, prefer my recommendation, if She is not already provided, which She was not a fortnight ago.
How often does my good Mr. Nelson ask, Do you not think, lady Mary,. I shall soon hear
of my louifa’s fate } -- -- -1 shall;
most assuredly— — my beloved wife, we shall meet again, never more to be difunited.’’ With these pleasmg hopes does he beguile the hours, till he sets out, which is toi be in a month from this day. '
# # # #, # #.
I have wrote as circumstantias a; letter in behalf of Harriet • as L I 4 could
200   The
could pofiibly didlate, to Mrs. Bromley; which I think much better to Send by a particular hand, for which purpose I have hired an honest man in the neighbourhood, than to trust to the conveyance of the post; as, by her speedy answer, we shall be upon a certainty. — May it be propitious.
m m m m m
As I knew it would give the utrnost Satisfaction to my Lucy to hear how I Succeed in my Scheme for harriet, I have been waiting five days, before sclosed my letter, for the reti^rn of my mestenger
from
  201
from Mrs. Bromley, An hourag:! he arrived; and I have the inexpressible pleasure of informing you, that he has brought me an answer ' which exceeds even my most ssat tering hopes. I have received the kindest letter imaginable from Mrs. Bromley, who accepts my recommendation of Harriet with the utmost joy, being much in want of so amiable a young person. She desires I ^ would make: Bromley Abbey, in my road from hence to town, by which means She begs I will bring miss Nelson with me, and that She Shall expect us this -' day fortnight.. '
'Is not this very fortunate, Lucy? " A ■ fortnight hence, then, from ^
I 5 this
202.   The
this, day, shall Harriet and my sejf Set out Sroin Lkndwelly to Bronitey Abbey, where I shall leave my lovely.charge, in the care of the excellent of women. Mr. Nelson has thanked me with tears of Silent joy, for xvhat he is pleased to call this proof of my friendship. As he has many things, to settle with Mr. Morgan, relative to their departure for Leghorn, he leaves his little habitahon here, at the Same time we do, to go ta Mr. morgan’s seat.
I hpre close my letter.. You will be an unreasonable girl to expedf another from me, before our departure, as we have a million of little affairs to adjust;
therefore.
 20j'
therefore, my beloved friend, adieu, till we arrive at Bromley Abbey.
Ever, ever yours,
Mary Dorman..
Kmmn
it.
I 6 L E T
-04   The
LETTER XX
Lady Mary .Dorlnan to Mifi Lucy Rivers;
- • ■ Broinley Abbey.
At this peaceful Seat of hospitality I arrived, with my : amiable charge, on Monday evening.
I Shall pafs over in Silence the real reluctance I felt, in leaving my sweet retirement among the Welsh mountains; neither Shall 1 undertake to describe, indeed it is impossible, the tender and affecting Scene of parting, betwixt the excellent parent and shis, affectionate, dutiful daughter. They
were
  205
were Shut up together in his closet for two hours employed how you may imagine. On my cheek he left a parting tear, and, for one minute, was locked, in his harriet’s embrace in filent grief: then recommending his darling child to the care of that heavenly being who is all fufficient, we instantly Separated.
You desire, my Lucy, I would give you an account of everything.
-- — Where stiall I begin? -- -- -- We
were three days on the road, but rnet with no ‘‘ hairbreadth Escapes, ’^ neither did we meet with one adventure: : did we imagine every man we met was in pursuit of us, or that our inns were So many enchanted
los   The
enchanted castles. My two fer -- vants followed in another post chaife.
Bromley Abbey is situated in the midst of a large park. Tt has for -- merly been a religious house, and, has the most magnificent appearance of venerable antic^uity. An extensive wood, of the finest oaks,, on. one fide of the gardens, is a great addition to the beauty of the; prospect., A large rookery, in the front, I also extremely admire.. There is a beautiful grotto, the work of Mrs., Bromley's, owns Tands,, which is superior to anything of the kind, I have Seen.. That excellent woman received us, in, the most polite and friendly.
manner,.
  aoy
manner. Her address to the trembling Harriet was even affectionate, All, Lucy, how does the 7nanner of conferring a favour, lessen, or increase it! 'How did She encourage my young friend, by addressing her with the most familiar politeness!! .stiffness, no formality, no impertinent cautipn. She has bee, n a remarkable fine woman, and though now near Sixty, does npt appear to be fifty. She visits, and is visited, by all the families of the best rank in the county; but her frequent indispositions, occa fipned by the death of her only fon, a few years ago, render it very necessary for her to have a constant companipn, not only to amuse
her.
aob Dlstrest Virtue; or, The
her, but to dosthe honours of her ' table. To the poor fire is a common parents We found her sit • in her dreiiing room, giving orders relative to clothing Some of her little pensioners. I observed * was struck with the uncommonly pleasing manner of Harriet.
“Can you, rny amiable miss' Nelson, immure yourself in this solitary mansion, with an old wo ■ But we will endeavour to make ‘varied life pafs as agreeably away as possible. A carriage will ’ be always ready; and, -1 hope, with • our books, our needle, and the company of a good neighbourhood, we Shall be very happy.”
Harriet made her a crateful and *
proper
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 209
proper answer. She has an extreme pretty apartment allotted her, consisting of a dresting room, bedchamber, and a light closet, filled with books by the best authors. She has, besides, the use of an exceeding good chamber organ, and a fine harpsichord, to entertain herself with whenever She pleases, Mrs. Bromley has been in raptures this morning, with harriet’s performance on both these instruments; and softly whispered me,
“Indeed, lady Mary, I never can Sufficiently thank you for the treasure you have brought me.” Harriet watches her every look, and they already appear as if they had been long accj^uainted; Mrs., bromley’s
__________________ ________ ^
210   The
brornley’s open franjcness banishing all re Serve.
'mm # m ' m #
Sir Williarn danby’s family dining here this day, I find I have been Scribbling So long I shall hardly have time to dress. Misa ^^elson is this moment entered.' How elegant does she appear! N straw coloured lustring,, with pale purple ornaments, and fine linen of her own work, is the dress this day of the lovely girl. External appearance, I have always observed,, her situation, even commands respedt; Such is this simple thing, my dear, called the world: but how little does Harriet stand in
need
  an
need of any embellishments of dress, who is, in her person, so inexpressibly lovely > radieu, till night.
#. # # # # #
We have fpenit a moss: cheerful day. Sir William and lady Dan by are agreeable people. Their eldest daughter is particularly so. They seem all i charmed with Harriet. Serioussy, my dear, I am most ssncerely glad ssie is so happily Situated.
This afternoon, “the Scanty Swe “t remains of autumn, ” has been So fine, that we have been rambling about in these delightful gardens with the Miss Danbys.
They
ai   The
They both fing; but how greatly does Harriet excel them! Indeed, I am very proud of her.
You Shall have another letter from me very Soon : in the mean time I know my Lucy will remember, with her usual affection.
Her ever faithful,
Mary Dorman.
b.c.
r; E T
  miss harr iet nelson. 21 j
LETTER XXL
Lady Mary Dormante Miss Lucy Rivers.
Bromley Abbey.
And So, my dear Lucy, you seriously expecst I should sit down and write, almost a volume of a letter, every week, whilst I am only rewarded with half a dozen lines from your ladyship! — Unconscionable girl! — But to, show you how absolute your commands are, and in consideration of your want of amusement, I shall continue to be as circumstantial as poshble.
214   The
possible, in my account of my very agreeable present situation.
This dear woman, this excellent Mrs. Bromley, in fists upon my staying here a few months; and intends herself writing to my good ’ uncle, that he must dispense with my absence for that time. I want but little persuasion to pafs my ' whole life here, as our hours glide on in the most delightful manner. I wish only for one addition to my happiness, which is my charming lucy’s company. It is true, I can talk to her at this distance, but the very atstion of writing, as an elegant author observes, reminds Us, in the most forcible manner, of our Separation.
■ Every
  215
Every day affords me a new satisfaction, in being witness to almost the maternal tenderness with which Mrs. Bromley treats my Harriet; who behaves in her hew Sphere, in a manner which delights every beholder. Her admirable prudence, and unaffedled modesty, make her indeed a treasure.
Did I tell you, that Mrs. Bromley has an, amazing fine collection of pictures } has a gallery entirely filled with thosc of the family. I own I never enter it without being filled with a kind of reverential awe, when, I contemplate the portraits of. Some of the bravest men, and greatest beauties of the age in which they lived,.
now
Si   The
nbw in their graves, reduced to a little heap of dust. At the upper end of the gallery, is a piece which much astedts me. It is a representation of Mrs. bromley’s only fon, a youth of sixteen years of age, who appears in the attitude of one just recovered from drowning, by the banks of a river. Supported in the arms of a young man, who regards him with a look of the most compassionate tenderness. This last mentioned gentleman, I find, is Sir Charles Belmont, who saved the life of his young friend, by hazarding his own, in plunging into a rapid • river to rescue him. It Seems they were schoolfellows, though Sir Charles was Some years ■ his
  217
his Senior. This generous action in Saving the life of her only and beloved child, has rendered sir Charles So dear to the excellent heart of Mrs. Bromley, tmt She regards him with the utmost afibc tion. He spends, I find, great part of his time here. She consults him in all her affairs, and, in consideration of the friendship which fubfisted between him and this darling Son, (whom heaven has since been pleased to take to itself, which stroke has greatly impaired her health) it is imagined a cpnlidera ble part of her fortune she will bequeath to him. Never, in my life, did I hear such a character as this Sir Charles! — But, ah, Lucy!
vol, I. K your
i  j or. The
your poor deceived friend knows, by woeful experience, how little the public opinion is to be re. garded. Since, in general, every one is Spoken of merely as intereji dictates.
We are just returned, from church. The little congregation astembled in the church yard, and bowing in rows, through which Mrs. Bromley pasted, put me in mind of the parish church of Sir Roger de Coverley, So agreeably described by the excellent Mr, Addison. On one fide stood a little troop of boys and girls, who belong to her charity School; who, with Sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks, testified every work of joy at the
sight
  219
sight of their beneficent mistress. On the other fide were ranged a company of young maidens, whom She decently clothes every year, according as they deserve her favour. How was I affected to see the fv/eet affability, with which She accosfed the poor and aged, inquiring after their wives and children! A dinner is provided every Sunday for a certain number. With this excellent woman, suffering merit is a sufficient recommendation.
Harriet has been just now at my closet door, desiring I would go down to Mrs. Bromley, a gentleman being cohie to take a dinner, with her. — What gentleman can
this be?
/ : K 2^ OK
22.0   The
* % * % « %
Oh, Lucy! how do I wish for your lively pen to describe the
fop who dined here today] -- -- -- -- --
But let me lead to it.
I went down, and found a young gentleman in the parlour, standing opposite a large pier glass, admiring his head, which was dressed in the highest taste; toupeed, and powdered. He was enjoying the sight of his own fv/eet person in the glass, unmolested; for Mrs. Bromley had then, I found, left the room upon receiving some letters. His dress was a French frock of the lightest grey, or rather a beautiful dove colour, and lapelled: his waistcoat.
  miss Harriet nelsbn. 221
waistcoat, a black Satin, elegantly trimmed with a bugle fringe, and a diamond ring on his finger. On my entering, he made me a bow, almost to the very ground; and hoped my ladyship was well. To Harriet his address Was the most pert and familiar imaginable. ‘^give me leave, ^iifs Nelson, to adjust your earring.” It happened to be unlocked. I had no patience with the man, foi left them, and Sauntered into the garden, where I joined Mrs. Bromley. She ashed me how I liked the young clergyman, the curate of the parish ^ It was the restor. Lady Mary, added she, who preached today.
A clergyman! Oh, heavens,
K 3 madamd
i
: 1
222 Distress Virtuei or, The
madam! I looked upon him as an officer, in the Slightest Second mourning.”
Mrs. Bromley laughed and replied, you must stefire Harriet to take care of her heart. He is the Second Son of a neighbouring Squire of good fortune, and fancies, every woman is in love with him. As I have a sincere respedt for his father, he dines with me often. He did not officiate today at this parish, as he has been to Serve a neighbouring church.”
This coxcomb, at dinner, en grofsed the whole conversation, and every Smile was Jludied, to ffiew his white teeth. The man is really handsome enough, but affedfation
itstlf
  223;
itself. He frequently contradiested* Mrs. Bromley, and Seemed to look upon Harriet with a kind of encouraging air, as if dijirefs had stung her into her present station. He told her he was immenfcly fond of music, and stiould accompany her often with his violoncello or violin. Mrs. Bromley told him, that no performer, who had not the Skill of a Giardmi, could fuit Miss ncl fon’s taste, for that She was a perfect mistress of the harpsichord. He said, he was thought to have some tajle, and vas extremely intimate with the best masters. -- -- -- -- --
But no more of Mr. Brett at pre -- Sent.
Every day, my Lucy, Harriet K 4 and
224   The
and I are much Surprised at the following little incident.
VA' observe a plate of the best dish the table affords, is Sent by Mrs. Bromley, with her own hands, to Some person;; who that person can be, is to us an inexplicable mystery. The old lady gives no C rders to the Servant, who is her own footman, but an ex -- jaejflve look; of which he Seems to know the meaning, and is gone not above two minutes before he returns empty handed. harriet’s, and my ov/n curiosity, are on the utmost stretch on the occasion.
Can any pekfon be concealed in the dwelling f — I think certainly not. Mrs. Bromley herself, I remember
 ’ miss Harriet Nelshn. 2 25’
member, .Showed us,, as we imagine, ■ every apartment and closet in the
Hou’se. Very strange this! -- -- -- -- --
Harriet and I too have also observed that every morning, for a full hour, Mrs. Bromley is absent, af which time She is not in the garden, neither is She in her closet. That penetration of yours, Lucy, would soon discover the meaning; of this. I have asked my Kitty if any of the women servants are ill, but am answered no, they are all perfectly well. No longer ago than this evening, Mrs. Bromley desired Harriet to fill a dish of coffee, which the servant took from the tea table, went out of the room and returned as usual. Amaziiig this I K 5_: My.
226   The
m # # # #
My faithful and beloved friend will rejoice with me, I know,
when I acquaint her, that I have j ust received letters which inform me my affairs, with regard to my fortune, will turn out better than. Was imagined; though I Shall still be some thousand pounds the worse for that vile trustee. How
often does Mrs. Bromley con ^
gratulafe me on the diminution
of my fortune! -- -- -- -- -- If it had
pot been, fly says, for that event,
1 should have been at this time one of the most miserable of women.
My good old friend has been telling
  miss Harriet neison. 227
telling me, she hopes Soon to See Sir Charles Belmont. Then, lady Mary, ” she continued, ‘‘ you will be acquainted with the preserver of the life of my dear child!
Pray esteem him for my sake -- -- -- --
Harriet, too, must esteem him. Though she is a lovely girl, yet I must not have her lift her eyes to him in any other light than that of a common acquaintance. He is, both in person and mind, infinitely agreeable : indeed the most dangerous man I know.”
Dangerous man, Lucy! vrhat can the dear, good woman mean? — The word dangerom implies — but she could mean nothing. — - •• Well! let him come. -- -- -- -- Adieu,.
K 6 for *
2: 28   The
fot the present: I am going to take a ramble in the park to feed the deer. The young fawns follow. Harriet and me, and eat out of our hands as familiarly as if they knew us.
#: # m' m
O;. Lucy,. I cannot close my letter till I. have told you, that Harriet, who has been, in the “close of the evening, peeping and prying about in the gallery, fancies fire saw, through the chinks of'a door; at the end. of a long paltage, a glimmering light. This must' lead to a difcovefy. We are both of us strongly inclined to think some person is Secreted there— — --

  miss Harriet Nelshn. 25^*'
It must be So : — and the Servants,, who are all good, and faithful,, are, I fuippafe. Sworn to secrecy. Think of two inquisitive girls, on the tenter hooks of curiosity!.!.
is yours, as is.
Most Sincerely,
Mary Dorman*.
LET.
ti^o Distress Virtue; or. The letter
XXII
Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers. -.
Bromley Abbey.
"I^rovoking Lucy! does it follow, J. of course, that this formidable baronet, this dangerous Sir Charles Belmont is to become my captive?. Though my good Mrs. Bromley has bid m.^ajieem him, those were : her words, my heart, I will answer for it, will be safe. You bid me bevrare of my sensibility. I have fuifered too severely, my dear, not to prevent that sensibility from giving
  ajrr
, giving me any more pangs for the future, 'of the nature you hint at.
Harriet and I have been laughing excesfively at poor Mr. Brett. He has been here almost every day for this week; and fancies, such is his intolerable vanity, that Harriet is smitten with his handsome person,, he places in a hundred at titudes before her. Harriet, coming in yesterday from a walk, her beautiful face glowing from exercise, he imagined himself to be the cause of that vermilion which overspread her cheek.”
“Dear miss Nelson” ” he, do not hurry your spirits thus. Why that crimson blusti? Is it postible? Oh! how flattering! — -
But
^^2'   The
But I am dumb, I will not add ta that pretty confusion.”
Insufferable coxcomb! I have: not patience to continue the Subject. tomorrow I will devote a few hours to my Lucy.
* •* * % %
Such a discovery !- — O, my dear,., we were right in our conjectures V our kind friend has concealed in : our house, it Seems, a distressed and lovely young woman, for feve -- ral months past. But let me lead to this little incident in order.
This morning, as Harriet and myself were sitting at work, in a little tapestry dressing-room, which overlooks a fine grove of - old oaks,.
our.
  233
our curiosity had been just before raised to the highest pitch, in observing a dish of chocolate sent up from the breakfast table, as I have lately mentioned, to we knew not whom; I accidentally, whilst I was employed with my needle, observed to Mrs. Bromley, who had now joined us, and who is animated with the true spirit of benevolence in all heradtibns, that none of our English kinds of vrork could be compared in beauty to the foreign.
Indeed, lady Mary Dorman, you are mistaken, for I have some by me which excels any I have ever yet seen.”
In Speaking these words. She opened
234:   The
opened the drawer of a little cabinet, and took out of it a beautiful pair of ruffles, and an apron, which she fancied. She said, would make me alter my opinion.
Harriet and I extremely admired the uncommon elegance of the work. “But, dear Mrs. Bromley,"’ Said I, “these were not done in England !”
Indeed, my lady, they were : and suppose I were to tell you unifier this very roof too ?”
Harriet and I stared at each other with wonder and amazement..
You seem surprised, my dear young friends; but you will be more So, after you have both given me your word of honour to keep
the.
  miss Harnet nelson. <235'
the Secret, when I Shall tell you Some farther particulars relating to the ingenious performer of this work"
Do not you see Harriet and I, Lucy, devouring every word that came from Mrs. bromley’s mouth? After we had made a solemn promise of inviolable secrecy.. thus continued :
“In a small and retired apartment, secluded from every eye, is concealed an unhappy and most amiable woman, whom I claim Some little merit to myself in having saved from absolutely perishing through want.”
“O, my dear Mrs. Bromley,., may heaven reward you, for you are: goodness itself.” Not
23^ Distrcst Virtue; or. The
“Not at all, lady Mary, common humanity impelled me to do all I have done for her. — She was under a necessity of being concealed, at that time, from the pursuit of the most wicked man breathing; and her distress has been so exquisite, that I am happy in affording her an asylum. The miserable condition in which I found her” -- -- -- -- -
» ‘‘ pay, my dear good Mrs.'
Bromley, do tell us the particulars.”
Well, my young friends, your curiosity Shall soon be satisfied.” She then began to give us the long wished for intelligence in the following words
On'
  237
One excessive cold. snowy day, last winter, when Sir Charles Belmont, who was here on a visit, and I were sitting together, talking of Some very interesting affairs, my steward begged us to step into the hall, to look in the garden at a hare, which had taken refuge almost at the very door. After we had stood sometime to survey the poor little Shivering animal, which : was near being frozen to the ground, and cou'id hardly move. Sir Charles, whose uaiverfal benevolence and pity leads him (mind this Lucy) to have compastion on every living being in distress, proposed taking the poor creature gently in his hand, and putting it under some stieltef. “He
  The
He left me for that purpdfe, when the poor timid animal, weak as it was, crept from its intended preserver, and hid itself, I imagine, among the snow and bushes. Sir Charles searched about the gardens sometime for the little object: of his compassion, but in vain.
“In his return to the house, as he passed by an old ruin, at the bottom of the shrubbery, now used as a wood house, though seldom frequented, he fancied he heard the dying moans of a person in, distress;; so low and’plaintive vas the sound, he could hardly distinguish what he heard. He looked about the place sometime, when getting over a little wall he
Saw,
  239
Saw, hals covered with wood and Snow, a woman, in appearance, almost expiring. — Guess his astonishment. — Fie raised her in his arms; her eyes were closed, and he began to fear she was gone for ever.
How to adt in this conjuncture he knew not: for if any life was remaining, some help was necessary; yet how could he leave her in so dreadful a moment? — Most luckily the keeper’s boy, that instant passing by. Sir Charles ordered him to run to the house, and to inform some of the women servants to attend him immediately, and Soon after told one of his own Servants to ride vnth the utmost
haste
24^ Distrcst Virtue; or, The
haste to the next town, for a Surgeon to bleed, if not too late, the poor dying wretch.
‘‘ You may be sure, as I immediately heard this dreadful account from my woman, who came to ash me for some hartshorn drops, I cloaked myself up, as well as I was able, and in the midst of the show, by the help of a long stick, reached the Spot; where I found poor Sir Charles supporting, as I imagined, a person already dead : for she appeared, indeed, to be frozen to death. It was imposhble for us to know how long the poor wretch had lain in that condition,
‘‘ After applying several kinds of spirits to her temples and lips, but
without
History bf miss Harriet Nelson. 241
without any effect, I ordered a chair to be brought, and had her conveyed into the hall, not thinking it proper to carry her at once into a room with a fire in it. She "appeared to be a likely girl, about twenty years of age, and her dress that of a common Servant.
As I was attentively considering her, I observed fiie moved her hand, and a glass being held to her mouth, perceived breath was returning. -- -- -- I immediately ordered
a warm bed to be prepared, and She was. Soon after, conveyed into it. I then poured a tea Spoonful of an elixir down her throat, when I observed She opened her languid eyes, but closed them again directly vol. L L with
24-2   The
with a deep groan. I then gave her over for lost, as I thought it was the last sigh of expiring nature.
The apothecary, whom Sir Charles s humanity had Summoned to our astistance, now arrived. He astured us life was still remaining, and ordered a Spoonful of weak broth to be given her every half hour; as nature, he Said, Seemed quite exhausted with want, and the extremity of the season.
At that time, as I Said, we could look on her in no other light than that of a common Servant; but yet were not a little amazed at the fineness of her linen, and the delicacy of her arms and hands.’* Teasing. Kitty! dinner waits.
She
  (id.j
she tells us i what is dinner, when we are in the midst of this interesting story? — But we must go. Adieu then with it for the present.
# # # *
Mrs. Bromley has permitted the friend of my heart, my faithful. Lucy, to be a partaker of this little history : in the words then of that excellent woman I continue it.
** In about six hours, she began to breathe without difficulty, and ■to open her eyes, which she fixed steadfastly on me. I sat with her, till midnight, when she dropped into a sweet steep. She had, not yet Spoke; but my wornan came early to me in the morning, to acta quaint
i44  j or, The
quaint me the poor wretch then Seemed perfeduj to have recovered her senses.
‘‘ The Servants, who had Sat up all night with her, heard her towards morning exclaiming Gracious heaven! where am I? Oh, good vv^omen, you know not what
J have suffered. -- -- -- where is the
vilest of men -0 Save me From him'
“They begged her to, be com posed; informed her where she was, and that she would be taken care of.
“The moment I could get my clothes on, I hastened into her chamber, where I found her sitting up in the bed. Supported by pillows
hmry ormi'ss Harriet ndson. 0.4$ '
lows. Her languid countenance,, bow delicately lovely! At my ap' ptoach, She made an effort .to raise herself. With a look the most; grateful sensibility.. gazed attentively’ upon me, then Sunk down.i on her pillow through extreme weakness. She was Some time silent; till a gush of tears Seemed to relieve her oppresshd bosbm. L attempted to raise her. “Be as fured, my good young womanyyou are in Safe and honourable hands.”
‘‘ O most: excellent lady, the preshrver of rny life, are you Sure
he will not' find me? -- -- -- O hide
me, hide me from him !”
‘‘ I entreated her to compose herself, and assured her, no person L 3 Should
2t'4^' Distreff Virtue; or. The
should molest her and ashen treme weakiiess rendered her incapable o talking farther at that, time,. I left the room,, hoping m gentle Humber might,, settle hei Spirits.
“Who, or what stie was, you ma be certain,, engaged my utmost curiosity. Sin Charles Belmont and I Spent., the whole day in variousb conjedtureso - Some person of a rank above, the common Sort, we imagined She must she.,
“Ima few days stie was, abfe tosht up in a, chair, f where, upon my See — ing her dressed in Some clothes I had ordered to be given, to her,, T think I, never Saw a more agreeable. figure... Her eyes — shut you.
dhall
  Miss Harriet Nelshn. *1^
Shall See her — began to recover their lustre, and the blood to re visit her pale cheek.. At Sighvof me, her weak state how affecting h she arose,. with difficulty,, and.
would have kneeled at my feet. -- -- -- -
Many were the w^rm expressions of her boundless gratitude; but I begged her not to over rate a common adt of humanity, ” co madam, ” she replied, “a poor, out
east, -- distressed— — -- -- -- Can
you,, will you afford me a shelter in your hofpitable.roof for a few days, till I can efoape from the pursuit of tl: ^ worst of men — When yomwillbe disposed to hear my hapless, my mosh miserable" shory, your generous hearr will ^

24s Dlststest Tirtue; or. The “
bleed with, companion for my un beard.of woes.” '
“I hade her be. comforted > and added, ' when it was agreeable to her L Should be glad to know the occasion of those misfortunes which Bad driven her into Such extreme disfress; and in about a week., when Ilfound her somewhat com posed, I expressed a desire of being, informed of the interesting cir gumstances* stie Bad promised to
relate. -- -- -- After wiping away a.
stlent teacihe began.”
My parents, madam.” -- -- -- -
‘‘ But, my dear young ladies. Ilie Shall herself relate; to you her. own history, in her: own astedling: way; I shall only at present add,.
toii^
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 249
to the account I have given you, of this amiable and unhappy woman, that I was So extremely moved with her exquisite distress, and charmed with the unaffedted modesty, and numberless virtues, I observed in her, .that I no longer hesitated, in promising her a Safe and Secret refuge in Bromley Abbey, for as long a time as She judged it neceltary. She begged no mortal, but two of my most faithful domestics, might know of her concealment; the rest being made to believe. She was carried from hence, one day, in my chariot.. It is now near a twelvemonth Since she has remained in her impenetrable retreat, which it is imposh.
ble
  The
»
ble for any mortal to discover. I find my affection and pity So great for this unfortunate and most worthy vcoman, that I cannot part with her— — to whom can, fiy? — O lady Mary, and my good Harriet, haw will yon be afifedled. at her tale! She pastes her whole time at her needle, andl in reading the most moral and divine authors; stie is indeed in absolute Solitude, if L ean properly say So of one who, I may venture, to believe, converses. with saints and angels *.. She is, indeed, a true pattern of unfeigned piety and restgnation. Though at this time: beautiful in her person, and in die full prime of life, how does stie ardently wish for that
hout
  251
hour, which will, as She Says, III the fine language of Job, difiblve her Substance, and bring her to the
house appointed for all living. -- --
As her gratitude is boundless, for the small favours I have bestowed upon her. She has earnestly insisted on my employing her in embroidering Some fire fcreens, and various other branches of beautiful works, which excel anything of the kind I had before seen. Some of her elegant performances I have difposed of among my friends in this neighbourhood; by which means I obtain often a genteel gratuity, which I lay by for her use. My friends believing I am assisting a poor distressed family in London, tyre glad to take the work almost as Soon as it isstnished. From Some parts of her story, I find She excels in many other accomplishments,
parti'
'Virtue, c.
particularly in music;; hereon' cealment renders her performing on any instrument impossible, without making a discovery of the fair musician. I have told her your great desire to be acquainted with So much merit; and am how going, in order to prepare her for your visit
^ the excellent woman. k.
■ gone on that errand, I will 'close and Seal my letter. Think, Lucy, of our present impatience to be acquainted with this distressed incognito, vvhofe story you Shall have in the next letter you receive, from.
Your ever faithful,
- Mary Dorman.
: I have written myself almost blind.
End oi Volume T,
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
O R, T H E
HISTORY
0 $ “
Miss HARRIET NELSON.
In which is included the
UNHAPPY STORY
O F
Miss CAROLINE LENOX. V O L II
t>rstrest vlrf uei
O R, T H E
HI S T O R Y
is. 'F
« IWI s s H A RRIE T istels O N.
¥
f Tn which is included the
1 U N H A P P Y STOP V
4
Miss CAROLINE LENOX, m
I n a S e r i e s of L e t t e r s.
^ -- -- -- -- -- ^ : -- -- -- -- -- -- --
y In three VOLUMES.
— — -- -- -- -- -- -- -- — -- -- -- -- r
VOL. IL
> vi •
\ O N D O N; :
^ e*rinted for F. Noble, at his Circulating J lhirary, opposite gray’s Inn Gate, tiolborn,
mdcclirxxl*
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
OR, T H £
H I S T O R T
or
Miss HARRIET NELSON.
LETTER XXIIL
Lady Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers Bromley. Abbey.
Ye S, Lucy, I have Seen her!
Seen this most unfortunate, and lovely woman! Heavens! what a3 patieneq
6 Bistrest Virtueor> thc'
patience and resignation I what Sufferings has She not endured! what afflictipns has file not Survived!; How trifling and contemptible do my wrongs from one of the faithless Sex appear, compared to the ffiocking, the cruel treatment of this injured Sufferer!; Never more, ^ my Lucy, I befeechyou, look upon, me again as a pattern of patience, which you have heem, pleased to call, me; reserve your pity and your tears for pooc Miss Carolino lenox.
Yesterday evening,. Harriet and. myself (all impatiencemade our. yifit to this poor unfortunate, ac -- eompanied by Mrs. Bromley. We fpund her sitting at a Small tent employed.
 ^
in a beautiful piece of embroidery. She arose at our entrance. I was greatly struck with her fine person, but much rnorf with the Sweetest eounter^ance % almost ever beheld; though (probably the effect of long confinement) stie appeared extremely pale, and had an air of melancholy mixed with dignity, which extremely affected me. She received us with the utmost politeness, whilst a faint blusii Spread her pale, but lovely cheek. To relieve her little confusion..! admiring the beautiful flrades of .a fire fereen she had just finished. In every convenient place of her little apartment Some mark of her ingenuity.was exhi a 4 bited.
^   The
bited. Amang others there were Several landscapes of different views which She had taken from the distant prospects opposite her window Her dress was plain and care iefs, but inexpressibly neat.
* After we had sat about an hour talking of indifferent matters, Mrs. Bromley withdrew; saying, if it be not too painful, a task, my ‘good Miss Lenox, Lady Mary Dorman and Miss Nelson, who have both great sensibility, would be "glad to know the uncommon sufferings you have met with, to induce you to remain in your concealed Situation. -- -^ — You may dt -- pend on their Secrecy.”
Miss Lenox, making a grateful,
and
  9
and Suitable answer, and addressing herself to us with inimitable.grace, began.
Lhe story of Miss Caroline Lenox.
MY Sufferings, my dear ladies,, forgive my familiar address, for are you not the friends of my noble b'enefadtrefs are of a singular nature : and if the recital of them Should lay any claim to your pity, I fliali stliink myself amply, recom ..penced for the Shedding of a few tears, which the remembrance of the bitter Scenes I have experienced will probably draw from. me..
“You See before ou.. / a ruined, poor, - unhappy wretch,
, - ^ 5. ' who.
3 0 distterrvirme T: or, .'J'lib '
who, but’ for' the truly excellent cmrs* Sromley, in ctl iprobabilityv must have, perished... Ta lier 'gehe, rous compafiioa, under Heaven, am I .indebted shr nay preservation ftom: a miserable death.”
aster. a shortpause, and wiping, away, a falling tear; she. conti —, nued.,
At the age of’ stye years, I began i to feel: the bitter hand of;, calamity.,, in hieing deprived, ' by' death; ossa mosh tender mother.. Her .sister.. she had no other relation iirengland,, .beihganitaliann by birth,, placed me at a reputable boarding School,, intending,, when my education was persetsted, to; cariy^ine withherjnto Italy.. My father,.
  .miss Harriet nelson. ij
father, the bray captain Lenox wag Shot with his liorse under him, in an engagement in Germany, when I was in my early infancy;,, foi may justly Say I have been doomed to nstsfortune from my wery cradle. • ',
When I arrived at the age of ten years, my aunt, who was a very beautifui woman, imprudently maw Vied an Msti gentleimn, who Soon after carried te''to Dublin, where xie lavistily fpentdier fortune, and she died in lest than a twelyemonth of a broken heart. Whether llie left me any token of femembrahqe; Ct her death,,. J ■ am. ignorancf asvl ^ .have neveriifeard any account of^the wicked man vvho mpxrted sheil, My ^ ' 'an.; '; ' sttmt
12 ' Distressed virtue j or, The
aunt had hitherto generoufiy paid for my board at' the School, and afforded me bandsome pocket money, CL oa thing, See.
Hstviug a genius both for mu -- fic and drawing, I had, at that early age, acquired Some proficiv ency in those arts, as well as in French, and other polite parts of education. My governess was extremely fond of me, and my little ‘works were shown asa pattern to my young conipanions. — — butj alas! this admiration,, this preference did not last long. Soon ' after it was known, that my aunt was no, more, and that, in fact, I was becomej by her death, poor and destitute, was I regarded
by

by my Schcotefellows (fiicsh is human nature) with the utmost cool ness, not to Say contempt I - was ■ longer their charming Caroline, their dear little angel, whilst my performances were highly extolled, ' but the girl who was always in the way. My little heart was often ready to break, as my dress began to be shabhy, from wanting its usual Supply; and I met every day with innumerable mortificatiom. Indeed my cafe was, even then, truly pitiable : it was that of a poor orphan, left to the wide world, without one friend to whom I could apply for - help. Aly governiefs, who was really a good woman, dif countenancjd, as mttch^ as. Ste
couldy
Tij.. .Distressed Nirtue■ or ■
thfe perpetual' Slights I mec with from my fchool feliows; but: it could not be expeored that, III ' her circumstances,, she could maintain me in every article, a ply my numberless wants at her' own expense. As yet. I was, a usual, on the same footing of a: boarder as be fore my aunt died,,., and received the. Same instructions ■'in'my learning,! excepting my music and dancingy. for, alas! I bad no friend to defray the expense of * those masters,,; I. still conti feued pimctifin g those agreeable accomplishments, whenever I could ’ get an opportunity. I. often observed my good governess, v/ithra tto of pity in her eye,, which cut
mc;
  15
me to the heart, Softly exclaiming,, — ^ Heavens S. whati sball L i do ’ with this poor child
I was now near twelve yearb', of age,. having dragged; on : a mise • Table life for near; two years, and forming a hundred, little fruitless Schemes to ease my governess of the expen ee of my maintenance; when an incident happened which; seemed; to be fenthy the immediate hand of Providetibe for. my relief, ^ AB its.dtst rise was wing to whati I .thought then .a very trifling cir -- cumstance,, though it'was,, in. fabf. the cause of the sudden change in my Situation; (So blind are..we to the Secret Springs of our most ml ^ awte actions) you will pardon mes,.,
ladies ^
  The
ladies, for mentioning So trivial an incident.
Mrs. Edwin, for that was tbs name of my governess, being herself a great florist, and Spending many hours every day in her garden, allotted each of her young boarders a very Small piece of ground, as a reward for their per .formances in' learning;, in whicte, after our School hours were over, we used to plant and cultivate a few flowers every Spring; and we had very great pleasure in keeping, our little parterres in the utmost laeatnefs. That year I happened • to be remarkably successful in the cultivation of Some very .beautiful tulips, and of an auricula,, which '' • was
  37
was then in full bloom; the shades of which were So extremely curious, that even Mrs. Edwin herself could not behold them without expreshng her admiration. — • But I will hasten to relate the little incident vshich was produdlive of So amazing a train of events.
One fine evening in May, as my young companions and 1 were engaged in the sweet amufemeiit t)f cultivating our little fiower beds, I observed a chariot stop a the gate, out of which alighted i lady extremely well dressed, \vho appeared to be a person of fashion. As she came to Speak with Mrs. Edwin about the character of a Servant, she was ushered into the parlour
j 8 Blstfest 'Virtueor. The
parlour.; Having finished her bu llness, She was returning again to her carriage; but as She was ob t Uged to pals through that walk in which myself, and the rest off the girls, were So bustly employed, she stopped to admire the extreme; beauty and neatness of our little, gardens. She was pleased to take particular notice of mine, on which, being Seizediwith a kind' of grater* full impulse, for which I cannot' account I eagerly cropped my beautiful auricula fro: m the stem; and' begged She would, accept it.
She feemedc pleasingly Surprised | and looking at; me? very attentively, ^ -- -‘ You are very obliging, rny dear, ’ Said she,, ‘ hestov/ing. on L ' ' me

aue what has cost: you So much pain to bring to Such perfetstion .* bat I accept it, and will wear it for your fake.’ Saying which. She placed it in her. bosom, I made her one, f my best courtesies, and pursued my employment but L observed,, stie walked to her chariot, .stie frequently turned her head to the •spot here I stood, and Seemed deeply engaged in. discourse with. Mrs. Edwin; who that; evening told me, she was much pleased with: my presenting niy fine stower to' Mrs. Viliars,. that, being the name of the lady, which though, a tri st ing present, as my manner of offering it was obliging, she Said,, might, perhaps, be productive of Something
40  j or, The
Something for my advantage; adding, that Mrs. Villars had asked her my name, and Seemed much affected when She was informed of my very distresfed situation: saying, ‘ Poor child! I will think what I can do for her
“In less than a week afterwards, the lady Sent a message to my go yernefs, that she would send her ’chariot on the Monday morning to carry me, that I might Spend the day .with her. Good Mrs. Edwin looked upon this as a favourable omen; and I dressed my Snlf as well as I could in an bid silk coat, the remains of my former finery; but which X had so extremely outgrown, that it came„ near halfway
my
  2f
my legs! but my linen vas as clean as possible; and with my heart exulting with joy, I Set out ' through a row of my schoolfellows, who did not a little envy me for this distinguished honour.
It is impostlble to express my Sensations, when I found myself in the chariot, in my way to Mrs. Villars I hardly knew where I was, or what I Saw. A poor bird, just escaped from its prison, would have been much in the Same situation. I was agitated with many hopes and fears; and had Some thoughts of throwing myself at her seer, and imploring her protection i but that excellent lady made it needless;; she received
me
%2 idillrest Tirtue i or, she
Itne with the utmost kill(lnes% stfici affability. 1 was eonducted into a very elegant dreffing room, where •the ^rst thing I shw ‘was my beau ^iful auricula, which She had pre- -- in its full bloom in a china ffower *pot, which stood on a fine Indian cabinet.
• ^ You see, mil Caroline pointing to it, I have not negletsted Co take care of your obliging present.' '
‘‘ I Spent a most delightful day, in the course of which I endeavoured to enrtertain her with my Singing, playing, and dancing : — in short, with all my little accom plishrhents. She seemed extremely pleased with my performafrces, and kinds
tiistoty of miss Harriet Nelson.
Idndly embracing me, with a tender compassion.. Will you consent to come and live with me, Toy. dear, if I Should be inclined to have you always in my House ?’
*' I burst into tears of gratitude and joy, and on my knees thanked her for her unmerited; goodness A t parting stiegave me a letter for my governed, signifying her kind intention, .and: a hank, note of twenty pounds, to furnish me with genteel apparel of all kinds, proper tb appear in my, new situation 5 and in about a month after, I took a final leave of Mrsn., Edwin, and my young companions..
“My new situation was attended with every advantage and happinefsj
(24   The
happiness, Mrs. Villars behaving to me with the tenderness of a parent in all respeds. Soon afterwards She removed to London, and took a house in Grosvenor Square, where I had masters to perfect me in every accomplishment. She was a maiden lady; her fortune not large, but, with good management. She made a very genteel appearance : indeed She lived in an elegant taste, and her company were those of the best fashion, of which She had, every week, numbers to visit her. She was a very accomplished woman, and had been always accustomed to high life. She was about forty years of age; but continued both in person and manner
  25
manner, to be a most agreeable woman : So that her house was frequented by people of rank and fasliion, of both Sexes and ages.
“She would often say, my dear " Caroline, my utmost wish is to live to see you happily disposed of in marriage. Your person (She was pleased to say) promises to. be lovely; that, and your accomplisti ments,. joined with the endowments of your mind, will be all your fortune; it being not in my power to leave you a sum equal to my wisties.
Sometimes, with great concern, whilst the happy days glided on, would She tenderly form a hundred apprehensions for rny fu vol. II B ture
2^   The
ture fate : and at other times. Such was her fond partiality in my favour, would She believe it next to an impossibility, I should not Settle in life to great advantage. -- -- --
Ah! fond, flattering, delusive hopes! -- Still let me dwell on this delightful period of my life! Still let me cherish the sweet remembrance of innocence, and guiltless happiness!!! how soon was it changed to its dreadful reverse!! soon vere my bright prospects of gay delight changed into black despair, and misery unequalled.”
A gush of tears, this moment, prevented miss Lenox from proceeding : and I, fearing the melancholy
  27
choly detail of what She was going to relate, might too much affect her Spirits at that time, begged She would defer the remainder of her affecting story till tomorrow morning; which you, my beloved Lucy, .Shall have the very first opportunity. As it is now midnight, I have written myself almost astecp; and lest it Should have the same effect upon yourself, from the length of this epistle, I will, therefore, only add, that I am
Your most sincere,
Mary Dorman*
Bz LET
  The
LETTER XXIV
Lady Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers, Bromley Abbey.
My dear Lucy will easily imagine, that Such was ‘harriet’s and my impatience to hear the remaining part of the, adven -- tures of the poor, unhappy recluse, that we took the very first opportunity of retiring to her little asylum, where, being stated, file began as, follows :
“caresssed by Mrs. Villars, my excellent benefadtress, and in the enjoyment of every refined pleasure' ' '
  29
f life, I reached my eighteenth year; when a young gentleman, a distant relation of hers, came to reside Some time in London. He was just returned from his travels, and in the postestlon of a large fortune and title. His per fen and address, joined to, wlmt I thought, a refined turn of mimli nd an extensive knowledge, imde him appear to me as' the worthy of men. — His near alliance to Mrs, Villars gave him frequent opportunities to call at her house; and She, most unfortunately, about this time, fell into a kind of linger^g illness, which rendered his visits still more “frequent,
B 3 Alas!
JO  j or. The
“Alas! fatal were those visit
to my peace! -- -- -- Heavens! what
tenderness, what humanity, did he appear to possess!! I am naturally of a grave turn; which, as I have before Said, I imagined ^ he himself pofieffed, I became insensibly to esteem this most Specious deoeiver.
“I was young, artless, and in ejfperienced; and as my dear Mrs. .Villars would not Suffer me, during her illness, to be confined constantly in her apartment, lest it might endanger my health, I often engaged in being many hours alone, as I then thought, with the most agreeable of men. His behaviour was respedlful to the last - ^. degree | •
  5.1
degree; and though, from his afii duity lo oblige me in every instance, his frequent Sighs, and a tenderness in his manner, whenever he approached me, I had great reason to imagine he was entertaining a Secret pastion for me, yet, j from no word that escaped his lips; * ’ had I the least proof of it. L ' “He undertook to perfect mein
the Italian language; he presented me with all the new music which came out; he would listen with rapture whilst I Sung or 'plyed; his melancholy, his tender sensibility, as I imagined it to be. Soon encreased my esteem to an: astedlion strong as Sincere. -
In vain did my reason Suggest B 4 to
32  . The ^
to me, that it was morally impos fible v/e could ever be united. I was poor, without friends, or fortune: ile a man of rank, title, and a large estate, unfurmount able as were the bars between ijs'i ^»..yet«~*niy dear young ladies — I loved.
He still preserved the same respectful behaviour; but as I imagined his silence proceeded from the impostibility of my being ever his wife, how greatly did I secretly applaud his generosity in concealing his pafiion. — Poor deceived wretch that I was! Whilst
he was meditating -- -- -- -- O heaven
support me in relating my calamd tous story!
‘‘ This
  33
“This kind of artful conduct: is the most dangerous, to our sex, that any man can practice. 'His tongue, it is true, was filent; but that very silence spoke more powerfully in his behalf, than the. plainest declaration of words could have done. He would gaze on me with unutterable softness, and, after grasping my hand, sigh as if his heart vas breaking. His character and conversation were So unexceptionable, that I could almost as soon have suspected heaven. itself, as him, of an intention to injure me. In truth my youngs weak heart, was, irrecoverably gone before I was aware. As I imagined, from his obstinate filehcej b5 he
34 Distress Virtue; or. The -
he was under Some prior engagement, and that he concealed his Sentiments for me through generous motives, my pity increased with Such a sensibility of passion, that my health began vissbly to be affected. My Sleep and appetite forsook me; and I soon fell into a languishing state, which reduced me to, what the physicians term, a stow fever on the spirits; and, in a few weeks, it increased to such a degree, that I could not leave my bed. Medicines were administered in vain; their power affects not a wounded mind! -
“Mrs. Villars, whose disorder was every day increasing, was advised to try the German Spa as
Soon
'  35
Soon as possible, and the following week was fixed on for her Setting out. Her Sorrow to leave me in so weak a condition was, great; but it was imagined the country air would Soon restore me. How did this dear but deceived woman repose the utmost trust and confidence in her wicked, her abandoned kinsman!
I leave my. Caroline, ” She would say to him; “but you will be so good, I know. Sometimes, to look in upon the poor orphan girl. She is entirely destitute of friends.”
Gracious heaven! what astii ‘ ranees did he not .give her of his zeal to the utmost of his power, to B 6 Serve
36   The
Serve and afiist any part of her family! And that very evening, my excellent, my ever revered belie fadlrefs. Set out for Dover.
“Our parting no language can express. She held me in her trembling arms, for a few moments, y^hilst I was overwhelmed in speech less Sorrow. She allured me She Should write to me every week, and that She Should ffend one of her attendants, in cafe she remained abroad longer than four months, to conduct: me to herw At length we parted, — never — ah, never to meet again! She left a woman servant in the house, who, likewise, till I went into the country, was to attend upon me.
“I Saw
  37.
I Saw not my false, my perfi ■ dious friend, for several days afterwards, and I imagined his absence proceeded from that respect! which is ever the attendant on genuine passion. I had just left my bed, and was sitting Supported with pillows, when he entered my apartment. His visit whs Shorty, lest, as he Said, it might fatigue, me : and his behaviour was so delicately respectful, that, if possible,, my esteem and affe(stion were increased by it.
After general conversation,, he Said he came to inform me, that he had been inquiring, among his friends, about a proper lodging in the country for me.
'; ' “Indeed,
  The
.. Indeed, my dear miss Lenox, ’' added he, ‘‘as your physician thinks a change of air So necessary, no time is to be lost. I have, accordingly, most luckily heard of a worthy family, who has a large and commodious house near Kensington, where you will be taken the utmost care of, and where, as the distance is So trifling, I can often call in, and see how you go on: I have likewise been extremely lucky in hearing of a nurse; the same good. woman, I find, who formerly attended me, in a very Severe fever.
'-- -- Well! Miss Lenox, what say
you? the Sooner you Set out, I [think, the better: the country is, delightful, (it was then the latter
^ end, ^
  39
end of May) and every bush and flower breathes health and fragrance. A purer air than what this horrid town affords, must be of infinite Service for your recovery. Let my Servant order a coach tomorrow, to conduct you to your lodging; the nurse Shall attend you in the coach. Mrs. Villars will find I have not'been unmindful of her charge.” '
made an answer full of gratitude for his obliging care of, ^ and consideration for me; and it was fettled that I should go the next afternoon into the country. He left me with an air of much politeness, and I thought indifference; though Since, I have recolletsted, V there
40   The
there was a kind of reined in transport in his manner, which I cannot express. How did I inly applaud his noble, his disinterested behaviour! Not the least degree of ‘freedom in his address; not So "much as once did he even touch my hand !- — Ah I what mischiefs was he not meditating! But the house I was t herr in, was not the proper scene for the ruin of the poor destitute, devoted victim“
“be brief, the following afternoon, the fatal coach arrived. I found an elderly, decent looking woman in it, who informed me She was the nurse. 1 told her, I was fearful, as it was later than I ima £ined, that it would be the dusk ' 'of
  41
of the evening before we arrived, and that folate an hour might be prejudicial to my health. She expressed, vile hypocrite a fiie was, the Same fear. I thought the road long, poor deceived innocent! till I arrived at the destined spot. The coach drove very stow, and it wa now grown So dark Ixouid Scarcely distinguish trees from houses; when turning down a retired, narrow lane, the carriage stopped at a very large house, which Seemed built in a very peculiar manner, being almost Surrounded with an exceeding high wall. So that I could Scarce see any windows. A clumsy elderly man, with a Surly looki opened the door. I trembled, that moment.
^2 Distress Virtue; or, The
moment, I knew not why. I was conducted upstairs, through a long kind of gallery, in which appeared to be Several rooms. A profound Silence Seemed to reign in this melancholy house. Though the apartment was Spacious, the. furniture was extremely plain.
“Whilst I was undressing for bed, I ashed the nurse if there were no other lodgers, for that I never was in So sslent a house in my life. She replied, very good.people often lodged there, and dess red I would not talk to fatigue my Spirits. She .Soon got into bed to me, after having double locked the chamber door, and pocketed the key. I own I was amazed, and a kind of,. terror

terror Seized me, for which I could not account. My mind being too much agitated to admit of steep, and the weather being warm, I opened the bed curtains, and by a lamp, which was burning in the chamber, to my astonishment observed the windows between the half drawn curtains, were Secured from the top to the bottom with strong iron bars. Good Heaven protect me, Said I, what can this mean!
O God, where am I- -- -- -- -- a prison
! But, O dreadful!, What was my terror, when casting my eyes on a chair, near the bed, I plainly perceived, what is called a strait waistcoat! The shocking idea, of = being trapanned into a private madhouse
44-   The
house, filled me with unspeakable horror.
“As to harbouring the least injurious Suspicion of th infamous wretch, as the proved, who had placed me there, I could as Soon have Suspected the good Mrs. vil lars, or either of you ladies. I, however, in the morning, mentioned to the woman, what I had Seen. She affected a laugh, and Said, she supposed the windows had been in that form for these hundred years; for, added she, this house was built in the time of popery, and is called the nunnery; the waistcoat she pretended she knew nothing about, and could not account for its being there. As I"
had
■A
 45;
had Spent a ileepless night, I continued in my bed till the day was far advanced, and was just beginning to think of riling, when I was much Surprised with a visit from the perfidious villain. He Said, he was corning that way, and just called in upon me. The nurse instantly told, him what I had Seen in my chamber, at which he only. Smiled; and, sitting down by my, bedside, took my hand, and Said, he niust feel my pulse, and Should, adl as my physician. I thought: he Seemed to treat me with a. familiarity in his manner I had, never perceived before, and grasped. my hand with frightful eargernesa, : ^eing me look Surprised, he retired
^6   The
tired to the window, and I observed talked Some minutes to the wicked woman who attended me: when, taking a slight leave, he Said he should very Soon call again.
Strange and dreadful ideas now began to arise in my mind: my helpless, my miserable state, presented itself to my affrighted view in all its horrors! I found my fever increasing, and the vile nurse plied me with a Small kind of whey, which, instead of affuag ing my thirst, I thought rendered me still more feverish. Heaven only knows what potions were administered, or what arts were used,
but, before morning -- -- -- O ladies I
do I live to relate it — The • execrable
  47
execrable villain completed my ruin!”
Here the tears fell in large drops
into her lovely bosom. -- -- Ah,
Lucy, how I wept— — recital
-- -1 cannot go on -- -- 1 must lay
down my pen, and amuse myself with a turn in the grove.
m m m
I now proceed with the affedting narrative of this most injured of women.
“Yes, ” continued she, ‘‘ I was undone — ruined — by the wicked wretch who had Sworn to be my protector, and I remained, as I was afterwards informed, in a state but little short of distraction for near \ three
4^  *, or, The
three weeks. At the end of which he told me he was my husband, and that we had long been married r— — villain! what has he not to answer for? But I must draw'a veil, ladies, over this Shocking' part of my misery"
"about a month, my fever abating, I began to recover my senses;; which I imagine the accursed waistcoat had often been madeufeof. When I was thoroughly convinced of my wretched ruin, my plaints and tears would have moved a heart of stone. But, O Heavens! what was my aggravated misery, when afterwards, I found I
was with -- -- -- -! Real distraction I
thought must now be my portion,., “I Saw
  4^
‘cl Saw the most wicked of meii no more; the abominable pro curess, the nurse too was gone; and another woman, whom I sup pofe the people of the house had provided, attended me in her stead : this woman, who was really kind and compassionate, commiserated my unhappy condition. She wept over me, and Said I was in a private mad house; to which often young helpless women, were carried by their vile Seducers; in preference to a lodging house in town; as the ravings of a poor undone creature, in these dreadful receptacles, would be less regarded, or rather impossible to be heard; or' if they were, were only looked vol.ii, C on
  The
on as the effedfs of mere madness; and added. She was directed to inform me, I vas at liberty to go whenever I pleased;; my Seducer had defrayed every expense becoming a gentleman, with a deal -, more to the same purport; and, indeed, which I afterwards found to be true. -- For the man who, upon my entrance into the house, appeared, as I thought, Sullen and morose, was extremely kind and friendly at my going out of it.
“But let me hasten from this disagreeable Scene; though, alas J I have only various other kinds of misery to relate. — But how, my good young ladies, do I distress your tender, worthy hearts! — To
he
  miss Harriet nelsom
be as brief then as my Wretched story will admit. When I was able to walk across the room, though I recovered strength but very Slowly, I begged the poor good woman to provide itie a Small lodging at kensingtoa, near where She lived; and to thh lodging I went; a very Small apartment, but neat and retired.
Here I was determined to keep myself as recluse as possible, till the dreadful time of my becoming - — O heavens! — ' -- a mother! As Soon as I was able to hold a pen, I wrote to my benefacstrefs, Mrs. Villars, an account of the usage I had received from her kinsman. I was determined, as I have Said, C 2 to
52   The
to Seclude myself, in the condition I then was, from every acquaintance I had in the world. As to real friends I knew I had none; and had I applied to any of the gay, fashionable people, I formerly eonverfed with, nd told them my lamentable story, what credit should I have gained? The character of my vile seducer was so unexcep tionably good, from the fair ap pearances he kept up, that he might defy even malice itself to blacken it. i trusted heaven would protide for, or take me to itself, when I should be delivered of my Wretched burden : that time now was Soon to approach. Mrs.. Bond, ^ the pferfon with whom I lodged N.. ^ an
  53
an agreeable woman, and of an cx tensive acquaintance, was So kind to procure me Some needlework 5 for though I had by me the bank note of thirty pounds, which my good Mrs. Villars presented me on her departure, with six or Seven guineas besides, yet I knew, in my present condition, they could not Support me for any great length of time.
“One morning I Sent the poor wretch, who had been with me in the latter part of my illness, and who had helped me to my lodging, to the house of Mrs. Villars, to inquire after that dear woman, and if the Servant had heard any acr count of her health : but, good C 3 God!
54 Distress: Virtue; or. The
God! how was 1 Shocked to hear She had died at the Spa, in Germany, Some months before! and
that the Servant likewise added -- -- --
‘ It was a great affliction to her poor mistress, that miss Lenox Should turn out Such a young creature, and go off from her lodging in the country with an officer — for which She has not left her afhilling; but here, mistress, you may take back all her clothes to her
The poor woman began, with tears, relating my tale; but the maid would not, as she was pleased to say, hear a word against the best gentleman in the world:; and after helping her to move my
things
_________________________ _______ I
  55
things to the door, was extremely Severe upon me in her refiedtions.
My grief to hear of the death of my beloved benefadtrefs was extreme, and it was much heightened that she should die, under the belief of so false, and cruel a report; the author of which it was easy to, guess.
Shut up from all the world, I Spent my wretched hours in waiting for the miserable period when I should become a mother. ST hat period came, attended with every circumstance of danger. After Suffering, for many days, the Severest pangs that human, nature could Sustain, I was delivered of a boy; who, contrary to the ex c 4 pedtation
56  , or. The
pedlation of those about me, was born alive. — Poor, wretched babe! what tears did thy miserable mother Shed over thee! But Heaven was pleased, in mercy, to take it to itself, at the end of six weeks.
“As I had by that time pretty well recovered my strength, I began to consider what way of life I had best pursue, to procure me a fub •fistence;. for what money I had, from the unavoidable expenses of tuy late dreadful condition, was now greatly decreased;; to needlework it. was precarious; and my eyes, with constant weeping, were too weak to undertake enough ta maintain me.
After consulting much with Mrs
  57
Mrs.’ Bond on this Subject, She adr vised me, as I had myself Suckled my poor child, and had a great quantity of milk, to procure the place of a wet nurse, in Some worthy family. She went to London that day on purpose to make an inquiry, in which She was So Successful, as to have heard of a lady of fortune and fashion, who was in want of a nurse, for her first child; a fine boy, not two months old. The next day I waited myself on this worthy lady, a Mrs. benson. Sh Seemed greatly pleased with my appearance, and desired me to come as Soon as possible into her family, which I accordingly did. She was a most amiable woman, and treated C 5:, 'me:
5 s Distrcst^virtue; or, The
.me with the jitmost kindneih, be i lievrng me to be,; what i.had told her I was, an unfortunate young widaw^, and that my name was Smith,
Mr. Benson was. a.gentleman of large fortune,, and a very worthy man.. He. was doatingly fond. of his little Billy, * having Been Some years married vrithout. having any heir. This lovely boy thrived ex r tremely under my care and manager * and both Mr., and Mrsi benson seemed happy in their choice of his nurse“
“this regular family, and with these excellent people, lj^d been almost half a year,; ' the l>g®y and sprightliness of the. chaitstihg boy increasing everyday. Whilst.
his
  miss, Harriet nelson. 59;
His fond mother’s eyes have glistened with maternal tenderness.. often has the filent tear stole down my. cheek; softly sighing, „
-- -- -_«< such^^would have been my
feelings !” — - — How often,, when; having hirri at my breast, with his little hand clasped in mine,.
did that thought occur! -- -- -- -- -
and whilst he smiled on me, with a cherub’s sweetness, I almost forgot I had ever been unhappy. — Alas! how soon was, * I to lose the comfort of this Little. angel’s. smiles .1
“One fatal mornings after Mrs....
Benson shad been in the nursery playing for about an hour with her - beloved Billy, and fondly fancying :
^ / ■ e 6. stic
I
Co .Distress: Wrtue; or, thgr
she began to hear him lisp the endearing name of mammwy she was sent for into the diningroom by Mr. benson... Soon after a Servant came to desire I would carry down the child for Some company to see him. I obeyed the Summons:; and on my descending the stairs,. I beheld a gentleman' in the diningroom whose back was towards me
when Mrs. benson began -- -- -- -- -- -- -
** cohie nurse, bring in my Billy,, my Sweet boy N
Upon my approaching tlie door, good God! what was my dreadful emotion 1 my horror! My ■ knees trembled under me, and I wa Seized with Such a panic, that X had Scarce strength to hold the infant;;
  €t
infant; for I immediately knew the: stranger to be my wicked seducer.. The wretch instantly turned round,, came towards me, and took the. child in his arms;; and at the same moment, with a faint Scream, I fell senseless at his feet.
“How long I lay in that situation.. what was mentioned or done, I know not; as I continued in violent hysteric fits,., and faint ings, it was Said, till the eveningj at which time,. I found myself on; a bed, my head reclining on my dear Mrs. Benson's bosom.. The whole family were extremely a larmed for methey imagined it ‘ was Some accidental dif6rder„ as they could not postibly conceive
the
■6'2 distrest Virtue; ■ or. The
the real causc of it, or that I hath .the least: acquaintance with the vil, lain who had occasioned it..
By the next evening, I was enough recoveredi to have my Billy again in my arms, : who was by turns Smiling, and clinging, to my breast; when a niece of Mr. Ben -- fon’s, an amiable girl, about st£, teen, canae into the nuifery.: she. appeared unusually melancholy, as if she had some bad news to impart. As she had always expressed great kindness for, me, I, could not help ashing her the, cause of. her present dejedtion, ”
. ‘ Ah! my dear nurse, ’ she replied, ‘ lam indeed, troubled. My : unde has received a .letter— —, can
Mistory of'miffltarriet Nelfbn. 6‘^
not tell you— — Soon, ala! will you know: ’. »c* She had: no Sooner Said .thesb words than, with tears,. She hastily left the room“
“was amaaed, and dreaded L knew not what; when a Servant entered;, with a meitage. from Mrs. benson,. with orders, that I should instantly depart her house; that as J had deceived her in So base a manner; she would not see me;, and that the letter, vsihich she had sent bythe maid,, would account' for my hasty distniffion.. But Heavens !’’ (contir nuedmifs Lenox’, taking aletterfrom her pocketbook,, she Said she should always preserve: : a .proof of the extreme perfidy of mankind what did I feel when.i
reach
6’4 Distrcst Virtue; or, The
read the following contents directed to Mr. Benson -
worthy friend,.
THE Sincere attachment I have to you and your family, compels me to inform you of a Surprising discovery I made when I was with you’ yesterday morning. Heavens I how was I Shocked to see, in the person of that wicked woman you have takens into your house to nurse your only child, a most abandoned woman, who has been long upon the town I You may be certain I have no knowledge of her myself in that char facter y but am perfectly convinced,
1 Saw
  65
I Saw the very wretch, almost a twelve month ago, under a method of cure in the lock hospital, which, building I went to Show Some friends who came out of the country; and how She got admittance into your good family is to me most wonderful. My dear Sir, J leave it to your own prudence tc> Suggest to you, how to atst in thi$ affair. I confess I tremble for the injury She may already have don your innocent child.
I am, with sincere compliments, to Mrs. Benson, whom X heartily pity on this occasion.
My dear friend, ever yours,
H.B.
Xf
(i6  j or, The
‘‘ IS the villain had not (miss Lenox continued) Subscribed even the initials of his name, I Should easily have conceived the shocking author of So black a calumny. No longer then could I stay in this worthy, and beloved family. 'I o be brief, when I had packed up my clothes, and kissed the lovely innocent babe, who was in a profound Sweet Sleep, and for the last time bedewed his cheek with my tears, I privately went down stair?. The Servants, who were ignorant of the cause of my departure, were all assembled at the door in amazes ment; a hackney coach having been ordered to convey me from the house,
My
  62
“My good friends. Said I, - do not be concerned on niy account : heaven will provide for me. Af siire your dear lady I am innocent: saying which, I stepped into the coach. As for endeavouring to vindicate my injured character, alas! what would it, have availed? A man of rank, fortune, and the hest of men, as he was thought to be, had spoken of me in the worst of terms, and was Sure to be believed. As he imagined I stiould •make a discovery of his baseness, he was determined to take the, most early measures to accomplish my ruin with this good family, and accordingly wrote his horrid letter IQ hasten my removal from it.,
I or
^3  j or,. The
“I ordered the coachman to drive me to Mrs. bond’s, who, poor woman, received me with the utmost kindness. I staid with her about a fortnight,, in which time I luckily heard a family of distinction at Kensington wanted an upper servant to be constantly in the nursery, who had been well educated. The name of this family was Shirley. They were pleased with the attention I Showed the children, and their fond mother gave me many marks of her regard. In a few months we went down to a fine seat they had in Buckinghamshire, to Spend the Christmas;; one evening, after I had Seen my little folks asteep^
mrsn

Mrs. Shirley, who was extremely good to the indigent, begged I would go myself, the hoiifekeeper being ill, to See a poor woman, who was sick, just at the entrance of the park. Fatal visit, as it proved to me! As the weather was very cold; though clear and fine, I walked very fast; when, just behind a grove I was to pafs by, I saw, by the light of the moon, which was then very resplendent, three men on horseback, two of whoih alighted. I Screamed, and instantly they Seized me; stuffed a handkerchief into my mouth, bound my defenceless arms, and tied me behind the other man on horfe ba^k, who had a pistol in his hand,
.. as
70   The
as I imagine, to Shoot the first per son who should attempt to rescue me. — O gracious God, how shall
I describe this dreadful Scene! -- -- -
They instantly Set out a great pace; and in a few minutes we were on a common which leads from the park. All resistance on my part was vain — my struggles how in effeaual!
“After being conveyed in this dreadful manner for Several miles, on what account I could not conceive, we stopped at an inn, by the fide of a large heath, where a post chaife and four was ordered to be instantly ready. I was not had into the house, but taken off the horse, and put, more dead than t alive.
  71
alive, into the carriage; into which, got likewise one of these dreadful wretches. The fellow, feeing me ready to die with terror and affright, he allied me what ailed me? — ‘ You are greatly hurt indeed, to be taking a pleasant journey in a fine moonlight night. You have no reason to be afraid; - I am only obeying my orders. Come, drink a drop of this, ’ producing a Small bottle, which, after taking from his filthy lips, he was
going to apply to mine. -- -- Ashe
had now removed the handkerchief from my mouth, I exclaimed! What orders? and begged, for god’s sake, he would tell me where I was going to be conveyed. He
Said,
7^ .  The
I Said, time would reveal where, and that, for his part, he Should not Speak another word. So leaning I himself back, he either fbon was, or pretended, to be fast asleep. I i found I could get nothing out of this man, who appeared to be a low I kind of blunt felfow; the others appeared likewise as Servants, or people hired on purpose for this strange and terrifying journey.
“The chaise drove at a great rate. I Spent the hours in recommending myself to Almighty God, and in many conjectures of what was to be my fate My wicked, cruel Seducer, I imagined ^ might perhaps be at the bottom of this dreadful affair; -- -- but, had lie
hot
  73^
not already ruined the poor helpless orphan
At last, the carriage stopped in a Small village, at an old indis ferent looking house, called the New Inn. The people were all in bed, it being about four o’clock in, the morning, in the midst, as I have Said, of winter. The womaa of the house came down, and her maid, who offered her hand, With ‘ Pray, madam, let me help you * ’ Said the wretch, who was then unbinding my arms, ‘ a fine madam, indeed, to run away from her husband!! we have found her at last.’ The poor girl stared” Pray, ’ continued he, ‘ are there two gentlemen arrived, in a post vol. II D chaise
^4   The
I chaise yet Upon hearing thk ' question I thought I should have dropped. The maid answered no, and condudled me into a little room The Sellow who came with me Soon followed, and desired I would call for what I liked, and that I had better go to bed, as we should stay there some hours. He muttered also Something about orders, and a great gentleman, and then left me.
.. “I flung myself into a chair,
overv/helmed with grief: in the midst of which I was Suddenly roused by the sound of a post-chaise driving into the yard. My fears and terrors were still increased, when I heard some gentlemen ushered
  75
ushered into the very next room.
I could plainly distinguish every word they Said, as there was oply a slight partition between us. But,
0 heavens! I thought I should. have died upon the fpoty when I
plainly heard the voice of one of them to be that of my cruel Seducer.
“After calling for Some refreshments, and ordering beds, his ’ wicked altociate began.so you intend to take her into keeping, * in private lodgings in town ‘most certainly, ’ replied the
wicked wretch. ‘ To tell you the truth, when I Saw her at benfon’s,
1 found her person So much improved,
that I instantly resolved to;. D 2 have
y6 Distress Virtue; or The
have the full poffefiion of her, for one month, at least. She is young and. handsome, though, by that time, I Shall be heartily tired of her, I make no doubt; and then She may go upon the town as soon as She pleases. My expedient to get her from benfon’s Succeeded as ’ I could wisti; as it was highly t^robable stie would have taken the first opportunity of discovering me there. I have had her since narrowly watched, and am determined to have her. I Shall let her rest here till morning, when I Shall take her in a post chaife to London, and carry her to a Safe retreat.’ — But, ’ Said his companion, ‘ will not this interfere with
the
  ^ f
the curled matrimonict affair you stre going to enter into « Silly fool replied the vile wretch, ‘ I marry for mtereji'y and Shall keep this girl, for my pleafurej -- ^^*^ Ow 'feying this I heard them ring the hell,, and an order to be shown to itheir bedehambers.
Immediately I filing myself Tm my knees; and earnestly invoked^ the protection of my heavenly [ maker, who, in his mercy, was pleased to send me Telicf, by a Speedy deliverarice.
‘ ‘ The poor simple girl, who had first attended me, again returned to ask if I Wanted anything, and begged I would go to bed. I instantly rose, and, with quicksteps, D 3 half
78   The
half frantic, I ran to the door, which I double locked. I then took a guinea from my pocket, and throwing myself prostrate before her, beseeched her to accept of it, and contrive Some means for my escape;; not, I will die this moment at your feet. As I spoke in the most determined manner, jthe poor girl was extremely frightened.’'
* What, dear madam, can I do? I am but a fervant.’
“This instant change deaths with me, 'or provide me any .raiment you can get, and help to lift me out through the window into the street; which, as it is a ground floor, may be done with the ut ■ '. :
,. i
  79
most ease, it being only a few steps from the casenient.
** The girl complied with my request, and instantly procured me a stuff gown,, a coloured apron, and a hat and cloak,
“The appearance I now made, was So different from that when I entered the house, it was Scarce postible for me to be known. With the greatest ease, by the help of her arm, I got, out of the window Safe into the street; it being then not quite five o’clock in the morning, no creature else in the village was up. I ran, or rather flew, for the Space of three or four miles, with a handkerchief half over my face. At length being ready to drop D 4 through
$0 Dlstrest Virtue; or. The
through fatigue, I stopped at a little cottage, where I Saw a woman with five children. After I had acquainted her with my distress, with which she was affected, stie Said, for my better concealment, I was welcome to go into a little kind of outhouses, where She kept her fuel, and She would presently bring me Some bread and a little warm milk, which, when I had eaten, refrestied me greatly.
“She brought me also an old blanket from her own bed, which She hung up at the entrance of ctny hovel, to defend me from the Severity of the season“
“her husband returned from work? She had prepared
their
  r
their homely repast, she then brought me a bason of Froth, which as it was warm and comfortable, though chiefly made of what their little garden afforded,
I drank most gladly, and soon after fell into a Sweet and profound sleep ^ which I did not awake until after sunrise she next morning.
In this hovel I rested two ^ nights, and must confess was greatly affected by these poor people by their showing me they possessed * though fhemfelves were destitute of almost the common northeast ceffaries'of life. After making the poor woman a Small compensation for the trouble I had given, I humbly, thanked her and took my leave, D S she -
  The
she first, directing me how to find the way to Mrs. shirley’s Seat, the place where I was taken from by the russians.
“Afterabout fourhours walking, I met a woman who told me my way was to go over the heath, near the end of which, I should find a house, and be well entertained; but before I had half got over it, what with the cold, and what with the fatigue of the journey, I could not proceed any farther, and, terrible to. think, night coming on was obliged to remain there until morning. As Soon as day break, I pursued my .track, and towards evening I found myself near a large park; I entered it; and ashing a labouring
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 83
labouring man I met who it belonged to, was answered, ” ‘ To the good Mrs. Bromley, the most charitable of women
“Seeing before me, at a great distance, the venerable building, where so much beneficence resided, I attempted to reach the hospitable mansion, but being unable to execute, through extreme fatigue, I sunk down, and at length crawled, as well as I was able, into a ruinated vvood house by the garden wall; having received but little Sustenance for the last twelve hours, I was nigh perishing with cold and hunger; when Heaven was pleased to Send me relief, in the manner my excellent benefadlress, I imagine, has already related. “Your
^4 Distrust Virtue j or The
“Your ladysliip and you miss nelson see the necessity I was under of Secreting myself from this most
infamous of men -- -- -- -- Yes! cruel,
abandoned, wretch, under this charitable roof, no longer can thy wicked, thy barbarous arts be prac
She was proceeding, when, in an agony of grief, she dropped ‘from her lap the wicked letter the cruel villain had sent to Mr. ben fon. I feeing it on the floor, took it up, and was going to deliver it to the poor, injured sufferer, when, casting my eyes on the paper, which was open -- -- -- -- -
O Lucy, what was my amazement, niy astonishment, to See the
fatal.
  85
fatal, well-known hand writing, and the name at bottom, of the ac eursed Sir Harry Boastwell! Yes,, my friend, this vilest of men, it Seems was the betrayer of this lovely woman; I gave a Shriek, and was just fainting, when Harriet and miss Lenox flew to my assistance. By the help of water and harts horn, I gradually recovered enough strength, to take the most injured of women in my arms, when Shedding a ssiower of tears on her bosom.
-- -‘ Yes, my charming miss..
too well I know the perfidy of this basest of men! too long, alas! was I deceived by the Specious vile hypocrite, who — — ^ “My dear lady, ” She interrupting

ts Drstrest Virtue j or. The
ing me, distress not your tender, worthy heart, by relating his most Shameful behaviour: I know it all; Mrs, Bromley having, when She informed me of the arrival of her amiable guest, likewise imparted to me the particulars of his vile conduct, and made no Secret of his name. But in the course of my narrative, your ladyship may remember I have never once mentioned it, lest it might recall Some disagreeable ideas.”
Alas \ Lucy, I knew not until now her obliging reason for concealing it.
Deceitful hypocrite! — -- So your poor friend was to be the wife (he vilely hinted at the inn) he should
marry
  miss Harriet Ncishn. 8.7
marry for intereji! -- -- -- What frequent
bufiness did the vrretch pretend, So often occasioned his presence in town! -- -- -- Shocking villain
!
O Lucy! what an amiable creature is miss Lenox! how exquisite have been her Sufferings! I have wept for them, till I can weep no more, and have had a violent headache ever since.
. affetsting narrative, filling too much paper to send by the post, I Shall enclose it in a small parcel and send it by Mr. Norris, who is going your way. I likewise send with it a beautiful drawing of miss lenox’s performing, which I beg you will keep for her Sake,
It
8'S’ Distress aortue; or. The
If is a view of Some ruins in the park, and, in particular, the Solitary Spot in which She xyas found just perishing with cold and hunger.
I have entered into a Solemn league of friendship with this Sweet sufferer; and Shall Spend every day, many an hour, in her Secret retreat, in which I find Mrs. Bromley is determined She Shall remain.
See, my friend, the Secret hand of 'providence, who, through the midst of Such complicated misery, in its own good time, worked out her deliverance! A leston this, to teach us never to despair.
* *
What do I See! — a chariot and ■
six! -- -- -- the good Mrs. Bromley'
herself

herself gone out to receive her guest! — I am quite unable to See any stranger this evening, by a violent headache- -- -- is entered
breathless
** lady Mary, who do you think is arrived at last? Sir Charles Belmont, madam. Never did i see So handsome a man.”
Indeed, my dear Harriet, I cannot stir out of my. apartment this evening. What with writing, and what with weeping over miss lenox’s affecting story, and the Shock I received, when I became acquainted with the name of her abominable Seducer, all together have been too much for my Spirits to Support: I am just going to bed
So
  The
So good night. Make my apologies to Mrs. Bromley; and be Sure, Harriet, take care of your heart with this very amiable man.”
The Sweet girl Smiling, begged to stay with me; but. I would not Suffer it. -- — tomorrow I will close and dispatch this packet y fb adieu for tonight..
# m m # #.
[Miss Nelson contmuafion.j
• Lady Mary Dorman begs the light of my handwriting may not alarm'her ever dearest friend miss Rivers. She has been indifpofedi this last week with a feveristi dif s order,.
  91
order,, which prevented her Sending her packet, but is not, indeed, my dear madam, attended with the least dangerous Symptom, and she begs you will be entirely easy. Mrs. bromley’s tenderness will not Suffer your lovely friend to write, nor at present to quit her apartment, and I beg miss Rivers will believe, that no proof of tender assiduity or attention Shall be wanting on the part of her most
Obedient Servant, Harriet Nelson,
P. S. Lady Mary is attended by aphyfician, of doctor fothergill’s recom
  The
recommendation, who affures us, Ihe is in a fair way of recovery. Her sensibility, he says. Suffered so much by miss lenoje^s unhappy story, there is no doubt to be made gi its being the caisse o herip**^ seat difarder.
i
beti
H i sto ry of miss H arrict nelson.
LETTER XXV
Sir Charles Bdmont, to George Sidney, Ef([\ brqtnky d.hbey,
The last commands of my Sidney were, to write as Soon as I arrived at this peaceful mansion, Sacred to friendship and to hospitality.
Before I give you an account of the good people here, I must beg you to execute a Small commistiois for me, in relation to a poor family, whom you know, in the pa ^
risti
  The
rish of Belmont: the master of it a farmer, an industrious man, but reduced by sickness, and unavoidable misfortunes : being two years in debt for rent, my steward informs me, in a letter This day, he Shall certainly Seize on his estedls as Soon as possible, without my express orders to the contrary. Fly, my dear George, and instantly stop the action. also astiire the poor man, I was ignorant of this intended hasty proceeding; and present him, from me, the enclosed receipt for the whole of his rent; likewise tell him and his wife, that the two eldest boys I Shall put out to trades as Soon as I come down. ’
What!
  95
What 1 Shall I, blessed with fortune, health, youth, and every Superfluity of life. Suffer my steward to prey on the real distress of these poor unhappy people, and their helpless little ones, who are now Suffering, perhaps, th dreadful extremes of the most pinching cold, and the want of necessaries. Hasten, therefore, my excellent friend, to their immediate relief; to the relief of farmer Brookley, and his family, at Beechwood Farm; give them whatever you think their present necessities require, and I will repay you the first time we meet.
My ever revered, my good Mrs, Bromley, received me, as usual, with tears of kindness and joy.
Dear,
Distresh Virtue; ‘or, The
Dear, excellenf wbntan! Hut you know her, and that is. Sufficient ta create the esteem ffie deserves. She has still concealed in the Abbey the poor unhappy young woman I found in the woodhouse: : story, as related to me by ivft*s, Bromley, you are no stranger to.
What a consummate villain is this. Sir Harry Boastwell! I think, Sidney, we ought to stand up So much in the defence of injured: innocence, like the knights of old, * as to Send a challenge to this vile wretch : but the stings of his own conscience will be Sharper than our Swords, and to them will we leave him.
Here is,. I find, a lady in th ^
  missrhai^ict N^ifon.
jiouse, whom I have not yet fen, being confined to her apartment by indispofition. She is lady Mary Dorman 5 and mrjs. ^rc>mtey[tells ^ me she is lovely to an eminent degree, both in her pctfhteahd mind j bii own I have no great desire to fe this “fifie and accomplished lady, and can wait patiently till I do.
Mrs Bromley has taken, by way of companion, one of the most amiable young women I have ever beheld,. Such sweetness and sensibility I hardly ever Saw before united in So great a degree. It is happy for you, George, that you are not here. This moment I hear her playing a concerto on the harpfi vol. II E chord.
§31 Diftrest virhie j or, Tbc
chord, with infinite taste and execution.
Believe mo to h
Faithfully yours;,
bex.mont,
knma
y:
h £ t4
  Miss Harriet nesfoni
LETTER %xvh
iv Charles Bdimrar, tff Oeofge Sidney, Kf{\ Bromley Mhy^
I Take in good part, my Sidney, your raillery: your prognoju ^ tating letter in which you are So very Jure I shall Soon be a wil ling captive to the charms of the lovely girl I mentioned in my last; though I must tell my friend, he' is greatly mistaken. -- How little do you know the heart of your Belmont! and how ignorant are
* This letter appears Hot
E 2 you
100  . The
you of the real cause of the melancholy you have So often observed and pitied. No, my friend., it is not in the power of miss nel son’s charms and accomphfhments, uncommon as they are, to work the effect: you are So very certain w happen. Alas 1 my heart has been long a prey to a Secret, hopeless paflioii! And So it is likely to remain, since I have never been able to discover the name of the charming woman who is the object of it. — Can you forgive me for so long concealing from the friend of my bosom, from my faithful Sidney, this tender Secret?
Yes, you willi I know, when I inform you my revealing a pain,
for
llistory of miss Harriet neison. lot
for which there is no remedy, would only affect thy generous mind, without affording me the least relief. — In vain has books, in vain has the enlivening chase, and every innocent amusement
proved, which offered. -- -- -1 love,
and yet am unacquainted, as I have Said, with even the name of her who is the innocent cause of my pastion, which, as I find it impossible to conquer, I will, at last, repose the Secret in my sidney’s bosom.
One very fine Summer evening, Some time ago, when I was at the seat of my uncle in Wiltshire, I rode out on the Downs, unattended by any servant, merely to indulge E 3 contem
I jpistrcst Virtue; or, The
pohteir»|)lation, In perhaps the finest air in England. I had wandered about four mites, when 1 met a lady on horseback, attended by a servant. Never did I see a more lovely woman 1 The cxercise of riding had given a bloom to the most delicate face.imaginable^ which appeared to be full of sweetness and innocence. Her dress was perfectly elegant.
Whilst I was gazing, lost in wonder and admiration, her iervant’a horse, which seemed unruly startled. The stidden motion instantly castfed his lady’s to do the same which She endeavouring to prevent, and having not strength fufr ficient,) received so dreadful and -:. dangerous
  io
dangerous a fall, and^wliicli was So Sudden and violent, that; I imagined She must have broken Some of her limbs, J instantly jumped from my horse, and stew to her assistance. As her head had pitched Igainst a large stone,, and She lay fenseless, I had every reason to fear She was killed. I raised her in my arms, and She was entirely moti i bnlefs. I pressed her lovely cheek to mine. — Ah 1 my friend, how rapid is the progi'efs of real pat fion! I imbibed, at that moment, the fatal poison. Her Servant was in the utmost distraction. Not a house, not a human cfeatiire to he in!! — To much as a'drop of water to. be procured I — At last I • E 4 observed.
104 Eilstrtst Virtue; or, The
observed, at Some distance, a poo# Shepherd tendidg his stock. I ordered the Servant to inquire of hirii the nearest house He informed him there was not one for three miles, but that there was a poor hut at the bottom of the hill. I took this charming woman in my arms, the Servant following with the horses, and marched on, with my lovely burden, till we arrived as directed to the forementioned hut. It was a miserable cottage nobody in it but an old woman and a little boy. They, however, procured Some water, which I poured down the lady’s throat, and Sent her Servant to the next town for a Surgeon. I laid her on a wretched
bed
  io
bed which, the woman showed me, and as she still, remained in a state of insenfibiuty, and without rno? tion, I began indeed to think she was gone for ever. I inquired of the old woman if she had ever Seen her ride by, or knew the name of the lady. To both which she answered in the negative, and added she thought the lady should be bled. I thought so too : and as it was uncertain what time the Surgeon might arrive, and recollecting I had a lancet in my pocket, arid had often used it when I was abroad on my travels, both on myself and Servants, I was therefore detei^r mined to take a little blood from the arm of this unfortunate lady, ^ E 5 ' which
ic Distrefl Viitiie j or, The
which I instantly bound up, for that pufpose, with the help of
the good old woman. -- -- -- -- -- -
'George, how lovely did my charming patient, for So I must call her, appear, during this operation! — Her bared arm, her languid eyes which stie then began to open, and which stie fixed steadfastly on me, how inexpressibly lovely !- — But lessection will distradl me. — To proceed..
** My good young lady, *'’ Said f, ** how do you? If you have the power of Speech, pray tell me.’' ^ ishe Spoke not, nor did She Seem to give any attention to what I said so that I had reason to believe She had not as yet recovered her fenses,
Night
_____ _____ __________________

Night came on apace : I never, before, was in Such disquitude of mind. At last, the Surgeon arrived the most finished country Coxcomb i ^ver beheld. He approached the lady, and having felt her pulse, Said that as none of her bones had suffered any fradture or dislocation, stie would certainly do Well; though he could have wished she had not been bled, as phlebotomy, in those cafes, was the very Worst thing that could be done. I interrupted him, very calmly, by afkin^, him if he knew to whom the lady belonged, or if She lived in thdt country -- He replied, that he .never saw her before; that, most probably, : Sbe wasia stranger op.u c > 6 visit
o   The
visit to’ Some family in the neigh bourliood, and was riding out for an airing when the accident happened. ‘‘ Indeed, ” added he, “I Should have been here before, but have been drove about, and torn nlmost to pieces, through my extreme hurry of business. I have not been off the Saddle this whole day, till about two hours ago, I was Sent for to West park, the seat of poor Sir Robert Huntley.”
My uncle! — oheavens! “What of him, pray — - ?” —
** Only, Sir, he was Suddenly Seized with an apbpledlic fit; and expired before I left the house.”
O Sidney! what was my emotion, Hiy distraction i — what a dreadful ' stroke
  105
stroke at this critical jundlure! •* — My uiicle, the best of men! — He had indeed complained the .whole day of a pain in his head, and told me he would endeavour to take a little steep, during my evenings ride.. V • r
The Surgeon having Said,; it was extremely improper to remove the lady that night, the old woman began making up the bed for her, as well as stie could. — To be brief; .after many promises of the Surgeon to take the utmost care of the lady and, in the morning, to See her Safely ■conducted to her home, (wherever it was) I then left the house, the beautiful stranger Seeming te have just fallen into a gentle flomlieii
But
no . i ot The
But when I mounted myshorfe, wa extremely mortified to find the Servant was gone; by which means 1 was entirely disappointed of the ■only method of inquiring her name and place of abode : however, then I despaired not, but that I Should soon come to the knowledge of both.
I rode with the utmost speed to West park, where I found the fatal news too true, for my uncle had expired Some hours before my arrival. The family were in the utmost grief and confusion, amd they had dispatched Several messengers in Search of me.
As the necestary preparations for bis funeral, joined with a Vast va' '.
  Miss Harriet Nelshn. 1 r ir
tiety of affairs, which at that time occasioned my immediate inspection, as I was Sole heir to his fortune, it was near three weeks before I could get the least opportunity of making an inquiry aeon cerning the lovely stranger, - whostr idea haunted me day and night: howevefy the first leisure hour I could conveniently make use I rode to the cottage of the poor om Woman; but her extreme forgetful ttess made it impofiihle for me tb gain the willied for intelligence. How provoking to an impatient lover, for Such, George, I was, were her uncertain accounts! '
Among other things she iftform td me, a coaeh came - the * northeast jft ' morning
I 112   The
I morning for the lady, who Seemed much better, being able to walk to her carriage; and after many, kind exprefiions for the trouble, as She was pleased to say. She had given her, made her a genteel present of three guineas.
Not being able to gather anything I had hoped from her account, I proceeded to the town where the Surgeon lived; but to my great disappointment heard this man, who had complained to me of his extreme fatigue in being overwhelmed in bufiness, had the week before left the town for debt, and had abfeonded with all his family : that he had met with very little employment, except in cafes
of

of the utmost urgency, when * no other person could be got, as in the cafe of my poor unde, and that no one in 4: he town knew to what place he had diretsted his steps: Here, then, it was impofiible I could gain any, intelligence. guess; Sidney, my extreme mortification; and from that time to this, have I never been able, from my most diligent Search, to leara who, or what this lovely woman : ecjually fruitless too have been my endea ^ voiirs to conquer the unhappy passion she inspired. The large addition to my fortune, which happened at that unfortunate and critical juncture, L am unable to enjoy without her How insipid.. ^.
114  i or. The ''
how thstelefs every amuseifnent I
-- -- -- But no more on this Sub
jetst. Only pity, and, if it be possible, pardon my having So long concealed this fatal Secret from you,
.0 0m, m
. I have just been taking a falitary walk by moonlight, contemplating on the lovely -- -- -- -- Ahi
George, how does the tender subj jecstj that is uppermost in my heart, infenfihly stow from my pen! — —
- That excellent Woman, Mrst Bromley, has been seriously recommending me to marry. The utmost Wilh of her heart, stie Says, is to see me happily united to
fomc
  miss riarriet Nelton.? t
Some worthy and accomplished womajr,
‘‘I long Sir Charles, for you to be ac(]^uainted with lady Mary Dorman. Her person, though lovely, is her least charm Her agcomplishments, haw elegant f her heart, how delicately Sensible
of the most refined ideas! -- -- She
is, as I am informed, at this time disengaged: you, I presume, are jihewise free: what hinders then an alliance on both stdes So unex ^ ceptionablei Had my poor fon^ my Harry, been alive -- what hope t -- hopes, did I say? She must— — ^ stiould have been my only,
dearest daughter. -- -- -^^‘• -- Ah, Sir
diaries, could you but look on
%,.. her
i
Ii   The
her with the affection I wish, how happy -- — but I will Say no more,
- — You will have an opportunity to see this lovely woman in a few days, I hope, you then will be the best judge of her charms and merit.”
“My dear Mrs. Bromley, you are too generous, I know, to endeavour to influence a heart whose utmost wish is to oblige my excellent friend, the parent of my ever lamented Harry bromley — but, alas! how vain are your anxious wishes for my fettling in the mar' ' state! I have not, at present, the least intention of changing my condition — I prefer the Angle life.
I know not the woman for whom I could entertain., that kind of heart
  i ly,
he^t felt, real affe<3; ion, without which, I am certain, the matrimonial one, above all others, must: be the most insipid. As to lady Mary Dorman you mention, I make no doubt She is all you describe her. Beauty has but little attractions form— — — can I Say, madani, my curiosity is much excited. She is infinitely amiable, I make no stoubtbut I know many women extremely So, who have never made the least imprest!on on ' a heart which is yet naturally tender; and, indeed, I could almost answer, that it will remain in its present state, notwithstanding your charming picture of this dangerous lady I am So Soon to See.”
Won
tlistreff Virtue; or. The
Wonderful! Well, Sir Charles, you ote an extraordinary young man; I hear you have rejected the offer of an alliartce Tvith lady Sarah Parker, and though I acknowledge She k very agreeable, iher is' not a lady Mary Dorman, ”
« My good Mrs, Bromley, Say no more on this Subject, 1 beseech you, ” •
We then talked of indifferent matters.
Write to me my Sidney, and Ipity the hopeless pafiion of
- Your unhappy
Belmont.
LET
Hilary of Mils Harriet nelion^ «tjl
LETTER xxvn.
Lady Maiy Dormaji, /9 Mifi Lucy Rivers Bromley Abbey
At length, my Beloved friend,
I am permitted to hold,
once more, a pen in my hand. --
This Mrs. Bromlejr, how tenderly anxious ha She been for my re ogvery i And this dear Harriet would give me every medicine with her own hand. The lovely reelu fe, miss Lenox, too, one night, wheii (he heard my attendant was ab ient. Softly stole fronl her Secret abode to Spend a few minutes in
my
. .  The
my apartment, unseen, and unheard, hy every human being. And, after all, Lucy, this illness of mine has been nothing but a little feverish disorder, for which my careful, my too anxious nurses have confined me to my apartment these three weeks, till this day, which 1 have been permitted to be below stairs with the family.
Well, Lucy, I See nothing So dangerous in this Sir Charles Belmont. The man has a fine per son, undoubtedly; and he may be
really _gqod \ ^^but So grave — So
melancholy !- — In Short,.! have a great notion the poor man is in love. — Not, I hope, with Harriet; for I have heard Mrs, Bromley
often t -
History osmiss Harriet nelson. ii
often Say, dearly as She loves the amiable girl, she never, with him, could consent to an union of that ^ kind, for that her heart was Set on an alliance with a lady She had long known — Sir William danby’s eldest daughter, perhaps.
I have a confused notion, I have Seen Sir Charles Somewhere before, blit where I cannot recollect. Pofiibly at Some astembly in town. The man stared when he Saw me, and appeared to be a little disconcerted; and then began to congratulate me on my recovery, with the Solicitude of an. old acquaintance— — politeness, of how many falsities dost thon make us guilty! For vyhat mighty con vol. II F cern
I 12.2 ' Bistrest Virtue; or. The
I cern could it give, whether I, an absolute stranger to him, had lived! or died?
I cannot imagine what ails poor, Harriet: She is the very picture of melancholy. Her fine eyes have I lost their lustre j her faded cheek Speaks Some inward malady; and : yet. She says. She is in perfed: health.
! She tells me. She only wishes she could have a letter from Leghorn: but, certain I am, a suspense of not hearing from her father, dear as he is to her, could not so suddenly occasion so great a change. Alas I I fear her tender heart has
-- -- but I must wait for farther
proofs. If Sir Charles has given the Sweet girl any encomraging • hopes ^
 'miss Harriet nerson. ttj 
hopes *- — -- ' — but possibly!! be mistaken.
My pen is here taken from me
by -- -- you may guess whom
For ever writing., lady Mary? It is no wonder you are always eomplaining, ’*
** Dearest madam, only a few lines to” ^‘ — It is in vain, I find, to go on.
^ ^ ^ ^
Poor harriet’s melancholy increases. Mrs. Bromley herself
wonders what ails the girlv — So absentte to inattentive— — frequent sighs!! -- fears, that Sir Charles might have given her hopes of being her admirer, "are, 1. ■ E 2 am
it -
il
: |
'124   The
now certain, groundless. He behaves to her with easy politeness,
I but with nothing farther; and to I me with a kind of formality, and distant respedt; a kind of awe, and I fear, in his manner, the cause of which I cannot divine. Have I, Lucy, anything fb very commanding, so very forbidding in my air? — Pray tell me. He may be as distant as he pleases. Your fears for my sensibility were needless; for certain I am, I never could love this man : and yet he is sensible, and I believe good and worthy. But, ah, Lucy, when once a heart has been “so lojl. So fierced as mine! the very pastion of love is extinguished.”
Adieu
  miss hafrietnelson. 125
Adieu. I find niyself tired of writing on this Subject, but never shall be So, in assuring my dearest Lucy, that
I am her faithful,
Mary Dorman.
I grieve to hear fanny’s match does not prove So agreeable as your affedfion for her welfare made you So anxiously hope it would. —
‘‘ Are men all false V
F 3 L E T
izs Tistrest Virtuepiy The
L E T TER XXVIII
I Sir Charlies Belmont, to George Sidney, kfq y
i ^ '
I Bromley Jhley,
O Sidney I I have Seen her I — What language can 1 find Sufficient to express my joy, my wonder, and admiration I Lady Mary .Dorman is the lovely woman for whom I have been So long miserable. Think, my friend, my excessive happiness!, Am I then, or is it all illufioa, under the same rpof with the mistress of my soul? Yes, lam: I hear her melodious ypiee, I gaze on that beauteous * ' form.
History ps miss Harriet nelson. ixj
form.' -- -- Heavens 1 what dignity,
and yet what Sweet Senfihility in
her whole air! -- -- -- O George, on
her first appearance what were my emotions I
I was desired by Mist nelson to go with her into the Cedar parlour, where lady Mary and Mrs.' Bromley were then sitting, and told that lady Mary Dorman was jcome down to Spend the day.
On approaching the room, I was tmusually cheerful, for which I could not account; but when I entered, good Heavens, what was my astonilhment I The loveliest of women rose at my entrance. She was pale and languid from her late indisposition, but inexpressibly F 4 charming.
128   * or. The
charming. I thought I Should have dropped. The most guilty I t: riminal could not have been under ( I a greater trepidation, under the eye : of the Severest judge! I bowed
low, and in a faltering voice, congratulated her on her recovery. When we sat down, Miss Nelson began playing on the harpsichord.
I stole a Secret glance, unshen. How. did my eager eyes Survey'that face, which, when I last beheld it, Was die palid hue of death. I gazed on the' lovely arm which I had bound and bled, with inex: prestible delight; — But as it is im .pofiible to'defcribe my feeling’s on this occasion I will not attempt it.
, You will naturally ask, have I -' - not
  miss Harriet ndson. 129
liot yet availed myself of Some of the happy minutes I now enjoy in ^. declaring my passion; as Mrs. Bromley before informed me there was no engagement to interrupt my happiness??
! Sidney, not a Syllable has yet escaped my lips — Whenever I approach her, my resolves instantly vanish into air : a timidity inseparable from true pission, instantly checks the faltering tongue of your poor friend; and I own, I Scorn to make a merit of the Service I did her at the little cottage on the Downs. -- A service do I call
it? -- Common humanity would
have required the same office to the meanest enemy I had in the world.
F 5 I have
j30 .  The
I have not mentioned the eircum ilance; nor can She have any remembrance of me, as her returning fenses from her fainting fit, at that time, must have been very imperfect.
M ^ irii*
w ^ W W ^ “
I cannot linger on in this suspense. I fancy sometimes there
is an indifference in her air, which cuts me to the soul. Heavens! what a wretched, inconsistent
thing is a lover -- -- -- -2. real
lover l ^ how few, how very few, have really experienced the cruel doubts, fears, hopes, and fantastic effects of that dreadful pastion!
Yesterday Sir Robert Martin dined
  131
dined here, and Spent the ay. — Hers an agreeable young man. — What a state of absolute torment was I under the whole time! I thought She Smiled upon him with more than common sweetness. She gave him hev hand on passing a little Chinese bridge in the gardens. -- -- But how do I torment
myself with ideal evils! — Some method of declaring my pastion I must fix on. I, who. Some; time ago, would have gone ten thousand miles, on the certain hope of oncb beholding her; now, that J am in the same house, daily feeing, and hourly converiing with this loveliest of women, through fear of offending, Seem absolutely doomed F 6 to
• IJ2 Dlstrest Virtue; or. The
to an everlasting filencci sup pose I write — But is She not in the same house??
have at last fixed on a method.
— miss Nelson Shall be entrusted with my Secret. The good girl •shares the unlimited confidence, and has the honour of being the bosom friend of lady Mary. — To miss Nelson will I then apply— —
go to un burr then all my griefs in the breast of that friend, which will at least be some transient relief,
To the oppreited heart of your,
C Belmont
^ ■
• V -
i ______________________ _______ _______
  ijj
LETTER xxl^.
Lady Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers.
"Bromley Ahiey.,
LUC Y f you afe a young witehh - — I have Such a conversation to relate C.. the Sweet Harriet — Ah! my fears were too justly formed of that dear excellence! — Heavens! how nobly minded! — how disinterested her eondudt! — » But I am fet down to give you an account of this adventure, I believe i must call it, as well as I am able.
This
Distrust Virtue; or The '
This morning then I Sauntered into the library, the door of which, I Should tell you, opens into a little breakfast parlour, and was then in such a fituatiqn, that I could see and hear everything that pasted there unknown. I had been reading about half an hour, when I law Sir Charles enter the little parlour, andf' era few turns he seated himself. I did noc by any motion I made, give him cause to imagine I was So near; and, indeed, to tell you the truth, she had been So extremely assiduous in obliging me, for Some days before, I did not choose to give him any opportunity of Speaking to me alone : J ^erefore remained perfectly filent j - and
  miss Harriet nelso.
and where I was sitting it was im pofiible for me to be Seen. Soon after I Saw Harriet walk into this parlour with a Small basket of shell flowers, which she there sat down to finish. After. Sir Charles had Some time admired a beautiful rose she was making, I heard him
breathe a very deep sigh- -- -- --
Silence Succeeded, elicit was interrupted, by poor harriet’s breathing another, still deeper.
Why do you sigh miss nelson,. pray what is the matter with you? •
Who, I, Sir Charles? upon
my word I do not know I did. -- -- -- -
But may I not ash Sir Charles Belmont the same question .te —
“Yes,
sj/i  j or. The
“Yes, miss, I Sighed indeed: it is Some little relief to my Oppressed heart: — but you, and you, alone, my amiable friend, can cafe it of its present pain.”
‘' In power. Sir, to give you cafe! In the power of a poor dependant on the bounty of Mrs. Bromley, to give happiness to Sir
Charles Belmont? -- -- Surely I
dream! — But you, Sir Charles, are too — - too - — What am I going to say? — -- When do you think I Shall be able to hear from' Leghorn? — My poor father !” — “We will not talk of him, miss Nelson now. I have an affair of even a more tender nature to impart. “Ah! miss Nelson” ”
  isf
tinued he in a trembliiig accent, “will you vouchsafe to hear a declaration of the tenderest passion, that ever warmed a human breast? — Will you suffer me to repose my secret anxiety, in your tender, faithful bosom.. — was struck absolutely dumb : — “Yes, your Silence convinces me I may hope miss nelson’s generosity will incline her to pity and plead for me— — charming friend has made an idiot of me. Awed, fubduedi you must, my good miss Nelson, advise me.”
Harriet took out her Salts and complained of the heat of' the room.
“I am young; Sir.charles; and inex
  The
inexperieneed, therefore, what advice can I give you? I am unfit, though willing to promote your happiness. —. — You Icve lady Mary, Sir Charles — — I will not distress you to proceed with the declaration of your pafiion.''
“Oh, miss Nelson, you are indeed right in your eonjecture! — Yes, I own I adore lady Mary Dorman.. You, who are entrusted with her dearest confidence, say, will you undertake to difelofe the most tender pastion that ever warmed a heart .f*’'
■ “I will do all I can, ” She faintly answered, all you can desire— —. Sir, may stie be what you
wisti, : -- may She be the happy
wife
  Mils Harriet Nelshn.
wife of Sir Charles Belmont !■ — ^ depend on my utmost services- -- ■ little influence I have with my dear lady Mary, you,. Sir, may command.”
At that instant Mrs. Bromley joined them, and I thought looked grave. I have, indeed, often observed the dear woman stiew a cret kind of uneasiness at the little assiduities of Sir Charles to Harriet. w alas! little reason has She to fuspedt the dear,, generous girl, of any design on the heart of her friend!
Mrs. Bromley, Harriet, and Sir Charles, going Soon into the garden, left me at liberty to make my escape, and write thus far to my Lucy. Harriet, I dare say, will
Soon
o   The
Soon execute her commifiion; but do not be angry Lucy, for you Seem most violently to espouse the cause of this man,, when. I say, that though I really think Sir Charles a most worthy man, amiable in his person and mind, yet, I do not know how it is, I cannot love him, — What! shall I make that man my husband whom my heart can not approve, and for whom my Sweet Harriet is absolutely dying
— -- -- Forbid it friendship, -- -- -
forbid it love! -- But I see Har
riet, with melancholy steps, coming this way, therefore, have only one moment to add, that I am.
My faithful lucy’s,
'Mary Dorman,
  14!
LETTER XXX
L ai Mary Dorman, to Miss Lucy Rivers Bromley Abbey
HOW am I distressed, my’ Lucy, with the generosity of this charming girl, Harriet! I had but just finished my last letter, to you, when she entered my apartment. I began a conversation of indifferent matters; but observing her very absent, and inattentive: I asked, why is my lovely young friend So melancholy ?”
Indeed, madam, my thoughts were at that moment deeply engaged

142  j or, The
■gaged in contriving how I could hest assist: and Serve a very unhappy person of my acquaintance.” Though I perfectly comprehended her meaning, I was determined not to appear to understand it.
“An unhappy person, Harriet? If you know any poor object of charity in the paristi, my purse, you know, you may command.” — ^ She - Smiled,
It is not your purse, lady Mary, but your heart I have a design upon.”
. “Surely, my dear Harriet, you talk strangely this morning]”
ADO I, madam? — what a Sad
thing is hopeless love! -- -- Poor
i Sir Charles I — heigh ho I”
■ Has
j
  14j
Has any accident befallen him.s harriet?”
O lady Maryt.'*’ — Here, she began, giving me an account of thq whole conversation in the morning, and concluded with the warmest, and most pathetic entreaties, that I would ferioully confider, and pity his pafiion. She fet forth, in the most persuasive manner, his uncommon merit, the graces of his mind, his amiable person, and
-- -- - — bless me, my dear, what
do you think She added? -- -- This
very man, this Sir Charles, She says, though She was bid not to acquaint me with it, which is generous in him I must confess, is the gentleman, it Seems, who fa kindly
144   'The
kindly assisted me, I believe you have heard me Some time ago mention the incident, in a dangerous fall I received from my horse, as I was one evening riding out, when I was oh a visit at lady fulhanss
seat in wiltshire- -- -- thought,
indeed, I had seen Sir Charles before, but could not recoiled when or where.
After Harriet had made use of her eloquence in behalf of Sir Charles, his praises, the poor girl, 1 found, had infinite pleasure in repeating, I feriousty replied, I beg my dear to hear no more of this Subject. — Sir Charles I believe, has great merit: but I have been already so fatally. So miserably deceived.
  Fvlifs Harriet "Nelson. r45
deceived, that my heart at present seems fet again ft engaging with any other man. : -- and indeed I have another very particular reason to refuse this alliance, ”
What is that?” She eagerly asked— — your Harriet be made acquainted with it? -- You have promised, lady Mary to have
no reierves with me. Nothing in
disfavour of Sir Charles, I hope?
-- Come, say, my dear lady Mary'
throwing her lovely arms about my neck, that I may be permitted to give Sir Charles Belmont room to hope. -- -- -- Now, my
dear, continued the lovely girl, laying her cheek softly to mine; << whisper to my soul the objection Vo JL II G you
14^ pistrest Virtue; or The
you say you have to this alliance“
“then your beloved face in my bosom, vtshilst I tell my amiable young friend, that I fear, I greatly fear, She has, herself, been but too sensible of his uncommon merits. — But, indeed, my Harriet, be assured my rejection of his addresses is not owing to that cause; I claim no merit on that account: I cannot love Sir Charles Belmont, though I infinitely esteem him. ^ Yet I have long feared he has been but too amiable in the eyes
of my sweet Harriet. -- -- -- Tell me,
my lovely friend, am I right in my conjecture
‘‘ Alas! my dearest madam, replied
  147'
replied the weeping girl, hiding her blushes in my bosom, “I never yet concealed a thought from you; — Indeed you have a right, — ■ an undoubted right to know all that passes in the heart of your
Harriet. -- Yes— — own — I have
dared to contemplate too long on the merits, the graces, the num berless virtues of this most amiable
man; -- -- but, Heaven knows, I
never entertained a Shadow of the least hope. — Hope! did I say } — No, madam, his friendship is all — is the utmost of my highest ambition. — This morning, I vainly hoped ’ds true, I had some little influence over the dear heart of lady Mary Dorman — but I will G 2 say
14s   The
say no more - — not a word more, jut that I pity poor Sir Charles Belmont.”
She Spoke these words in rather a niore elevated tone than usual— — Bromley entered the apartment that inoment, and most undoubtedly heard the last Sentence of poor Harriet: She Said nothing, but looked Tthought, extremely grave. By her not then taking any notice of those words of Harriet, it was impostible for me to begin the Subjetst : -- It was a delicate part I had to act. -- -- -1 fear
Mrs. Bromley thinks that Harriet and Sir Charles, are entertaining, in Secret, a pastionfor each other. This morning She found them
alone.

alone, as I told you, in the little parlour; and during their walk in the garden, asterwards, they Seemed engaged in Some deep conversation and frequently stopped to talk. — Alas! little does the dear, excellent woman know, that I was the unhappy subject: of this Pete d Pete I mention, which I Saw from my dresting room window.
Poor Harriet has complained all this evening o a violent headache, attended with Some feveristi Symptoms, and is gone to bed earlier than usual ^ Mrs. Bromley, when she left the room, kindly, but gravely said, ~^‘ Endeavour to get a little Test, child; your Spirits Seem to want it.'’ Tshefi looking stead g 3 fastly
150 .  The
lastly at Sir Charles, — “This girl is extremely altered of late.”
^ Sir Charles blushed; his mind is truly delicate; but, ah! why should innocence (shr innocent with regard to poor Harriet, I am Sure he is) So often wear the face of guilt? — ‘but, in Sir Charles, this mark of shame arose from an. ingenuous consciousness ever attendant on the pashon of love, which indeed I begin to think Sir Charles really feels for your poor friend— — Lucy! how apt are we all, to judge uncharitably Had I not been pre acquainted with this morning’s conversation, 1 fuppole I should have been one of the first to condemn him, without knowing
the
  151'
the merits of the cause, which, in Spite of all our charity, is too often the cafe. Sir charles’s confusion arose from the steadfast penetrating look of Mrs, Bromley, lest by it she should make a diseovery of the Secret with which he had entrusted Harriet. — What an amaziiurj vin accountable pastion is this love! Its most innocent votaries have often the appearance of the blackest guilt.
Sir Charles, the whole evening, appeared so conscious, and So little himfelfy I have not the least doubt but he is meditating some further scheme to know my real opinion
of him. -- Adieu, till tomorrow
morning
G 4 Lady
I
j
152   The
Lady Mary Dorman in conilnuaunnf\
Mrs. Bromley has been this moment with me, to inform me Ihe has juil had a letter from a niece of hers, a miss Clifford, who is, I find, coming on a visit for a few months here. She is, I understand, a middle-aged lady of good family, but of a remarkable grave turn, even to a degree of y)i: ecifenefs but Pvlrs. Bromley, who, in the generosity of her heart,, often alloys merit where it is not due, says She is a good woman, and means well.
The amiable Harriet appears ill,
‘ ^ but
  153
but Says She is better. I greatly fear her Spirits were too much af sedted by the hard talk (as it must have been to her) She undertook
for Sir Charles. -- -- -- 1 am inters
rupted.
4’ m m' m
I have been So much engaged these three days, that I have not been able to write a word. yef terday miss Clifford arrived. I think I never Saw So formal, and,
I' must add. So proud a woman. She piques herself, I find, on being more religious, and snore virtuows than all the world besides;; L am much deceived, if, with all her goodness, She possesses what 17. C 5, think
154  j or. The
think the greatest proof of being So, I mean a charitable heart. I did not like the turn of her eye, when first She viewed poor Harriet -- -- Spiteful, I thought.
She is herself about five and thirty, tall, thin, ungenteel, and her complexion the colour of an orange. With all her gravity, I could see She endeavours to recommend herself as much as poslible to Sir Charles. They have been acquainted, I find, many years. This precise lady puts me in mind of the Devotee, so well described in the Spetstator. I do not imagine She would touch any book, at least in sight, but a prayer book, upon any account. Last night, at Supper,
♦
  155
Supper, and this morning, at breakfast. She made us wait a full quarter of an hour, whilst, as stie said, stie was at her devotions. — • What ostentation this! — — The most trifling Subjects She intermixes with scripture phrases, and thanks the Lord that her thread and needles are good. -- I almost cannot help accusing her with profanenefsy when She calls upon the Sacred name, and glorious maker of a thousand worlds, to vouch for the most insignificant, contemptible trifles. Certainly God Should be in all our thoughts, but the familiarity with which this woman mentions his Sacred name, I own often shocks me. This morning G 6 as
•
1^6, Distrust Virtue; or, The
as we were walking in the gardens, Haristet a nd Sir di arles were 1alking together; wdiich, by the bye, I Saw file took notice of, and, as I thought, was: not a little nettled at it,
“Pray, lady Mary, who is this miss.nelfon? Some indigent young woman, I suppose,, by being bred up in vattify, and idle, worlds ly pleasures” (an expression, my, dear, frequently in her mouth)
‘‘ I Suppose is now reduced; to want!”
I informed her ssie was mistaken, both in the education and present state of miss Nelson: : that her merit and accomplissiments rendered her a most agreeable compas
nidn

nion to Mrs. Bromley. “In mu sic, miss Clifford, ” added I, “She particularly excels; which you know your excellent aunt is remarkably fond of.”
“Yes, poor woman! — ‘ i hope the will touch her heart, to see her unhappy folly in this respect: but various are the back -- Jlidings of his poor creatures.”
I stared; but Mrs. Bromley immediately joining us, could make no answer.
Adieu, my friend! I hardly know what I have written; for the abovementioned devotee is now reading so loud in her apartment, which is next to mine, in one of, her cantirrg books, that my attention
15^’   The
tk)n has been entirely interrupted. — Write,
And believe me
Your faithful,
Mary Dorman.
LET
  159
LETTER XXXL.
Lad Mary Dorman, to Miss lj\icy Rivers, Bromley Abbey,.
Ah, Lucy !■ — what a dreadful week has the last proved to your poor friend! -- The Sweet Harriet has had, for these ten days, and still has, so violent a fever, attended with a strong delirium,.
■ that we have little hopes of her recovery. She frequently mentions the name of Sir Charles, and I am in the utmost pain and concern, lest Mrs. Bromley, who often sits by her, Should discover
the
r^b .  on The
the dear girl’s unhappy passion.. No longer ago than yesterday; She shartest up in her bed. — Yes, Sir Charles,, you Shall be happy; : -- your poor Harriet {hdxl make you happy. ^ but stay till I am quite cold, and laid in the ground. -- Let me: strew fiowers; - let me' attend the happy, nuptials. -- You promised I should— — go to church j — your Harriet has made the necessary; preparations — all
is ready as your heart can wish.”
I thought I Should have Siink into the earth; at hearing this affecting delirium. Unfortunately miss Clifford had just entered the room, to Speak to Mrs. Bromley, and heard poor Harriet.
“Satan, ”
  ir'
“Satan, ” Said She, “is busy,
I find, wrestling with this poor
Sinner. -- But what is Sir Charles
to her, pray
“For ever, ” Said Mrs. brora lay, harping on his name! — Very strange this!”
Dear madam, ” Said I, how little to be regarded are the deliriums of a high fever !” i^ive her every medicine with my own hand, and am as much with the dear. Suffering girl as postible, to prevent her continual ramblings about Sir Charles being heard by others. I have, for the purpose, had a little bed put up in her apartment, in which I Shall steep? this night. -- -1 fear Mrs, Bullen,.
Mrs.
i52   The
Mrs. bromley’s woman, who has hitherto watched every night, has heard too much.
# # # # m m
Harriet has had a better night, and is now in a Sweet Sleep. — Sir Charles has had letters relative to bufiness, which will oblige him to leave Bromley Abbey tomorrow'
'^ ^ ^ Mi M
Sir Charles, before his departure this moriiing, has declared his pas sion in the most explicit terms. I studiousiy avoided giving him any opportunity of Speaking to me: blit after breakfast, Mrs. Bromley having just left the room with
miss
  163
miss Clifford, he tenderly took my hand.
‘‘ Do not leave me, lady Mary
-- -- Seeing me about to rise, -- -- -- -
How does the poor Harriet ^ — She is happy in possessing a friend of such uncommon tenderness— — I what sensibility is lady Mary endued with! — I am going, madam, to leave Bromley Abbey.”
Before I could put in a word, be began a long, and really a very eloquent Speech; in which he offered his hand and fortune, in the most generous manner, to my acceptance.
You may imagine I was as explicit as possible in my answers; for, highly as I esteem him, I cannot
1^4 Distress Virtue; or, The
cannot encourage him as a lover y — indeed I cannot. — Can I marry the man for whom my Harriet is dying ^ — Ah, Lucy! how many painful struggles must her tender bosom feel, before it can regain its peaceful state! — But I ascribe to my Seif not the least merit in my refusal of Sir Charles. I longed to express my ' gratitude in the warmest terms, for his kind assiduity at the little cottage in Wiltshire;; my promise to Harriet stopped my tongue: yet to suppress a strong epiotion of gratitude, is a hard talk.
Sir Charles took a most respectful, but melancholy leave 5, and! hastened to my apartment. Time,
and.
I'
  165
and absence, I make no doubt, will Soon erase every partial remembrance of me: my best wishes will ever attend him.
#, #. m m m
m # # # #
is considerably better, and able to leave her bed a few hours every day. She knows not' Sir Charles is gone; neither does she ever mention his name; — but is the exact resemblance of shakef peare’s beautiful image of a maid in love.
“She looks like patience on a monument,
“Smiling at grief.”
Miss
i66   The
miss Clifford (I am quite pro yoked at that woman) has often visited the dear girl in her apartment, under pretence of what She calls, • charitably visiting the jicly* but, in reality, I believe, to gratify her cruel, 'malicious temper: — Witness the following canting, hypocritical speech She made her this morning.
“Well, miss Nelson, I rejoice and am thankful to find my prayers have been heard for your recovery; but are you thankfuly yourself; do you pour forth your praises at the throne of grace for the heavenly
favour? -- -- -1 doubt not. -- -- -- This
visitation you have had, these stripes you have received from the
hand
  167
hand of the Lord, is a plain proof of his wrath and indignation, which have been let loose upon a ' poor, lost fmner, far gone, I fear, in the paths of vanity and perdition. — You are now under the correction of the Lord; your illness is owing to the sin of pride and presumption, I doubt. — May the Lord, give thee a proportion of his divine grace. Strive, miss nelson, strive tp conquer the lusts and vanities of thy heart, and thou will prove victorious.”
It was well I was not in the room when this cruel woman, foi must call her, harangued in this manner, the poor sweet sufferer.
I own I am extremely apprehensive
that
i68   The
that this envious, censorious woman, by her cruel hint of pride and prefumptioriy alluded to Some unfortunate discovery relative to Sir Charles : if so, what lengths, my dear Lucy, may her ill nature carry her! — But how Severe, how unjust and ill timed, to stalk to a poor, weak young woman in this cruel manner, just risen from a sick bed I
m m 0 0
Sir Charles has this day Sent the last favourite opera, to miss nel fon, and a letter enclosed in it to her; with an offer of his faithful and eternal friendship. He is too delicate to say a word of me, any further
ffistoty of nliss Harriet nelson. i
Further than to Send his respects.. He Says, he intends early in the Spring to visit the German Spa, and Some Foreign courts. How did the dear girl’s eyes Sparkle, and almost Seemed to recover their former lustre. Upon receiving this letter! — Most luckily no one was with her but mysels when stie opened her parcel. As to the opera, stie Showed it to Mrs. Bromley, who had long wished to hear it.
m # # m m m
I have the inexpreshble pleasurc of Seeing Harriet, every day, gaining strength. I endeavour to make her Smile about shat vain and insuf
vol, II H ferable
lyo   The
lerable coxcomb, Mr. Brett; who, ever since harriet’s illness, has pursed up his mouth, and looks
extremely wise. -- -- -- What would
the ridiculous vanity of this wretch
infer! -- - “Some hidden cause, ”
— he Says. — Is it not, my Lucy, a most provoking thing, that no young single woman can be ill, but that love must forsooth be at the bottom of it -- -- -- 1 have no patience.
The reputation of a woman may, indeed, be likened to the delicate and transient beauty of | Some peculiar flowers, which the ' least breath is fatal to.
My Sweet Harriet is this moment going out, for the first time, an airing. I know the generosity
of
 171
of my excellent Lucy will induce her to Sacrifice her pleasure, for this once, to that of my accompanying, at present, the poor girl in her little excursion: and really miss Clifford has been so long holding forth, in a dissertation on the excellency of faith without works, that I must go and breathe a little fresti air to recover my Spirits from their present dull state. And lest my pen should be equally foi will this instant conclude, with begging my Lucy would believe,
I am her faithful
Mary Dorman.
H 2 L E T
17?   The
LETTER XXXII
Lady Mary Dorman, io Mifi Lucy Rivers Bromley Abbey,
VERY Sorry am I to acquaint my dearest friend, that by a letter I received last night from London, I find my excellent uncle, lord B — —, is in a very bad state of health, and begs my immediate attendance. I almost accuse myself of ingratitude, in not having, before now. Sacrificed the pleasure of being with my amiable friends here, to the alleviating the pains of a long and lin gering
  173
gering illness,, which that worthy man has, for Some months, laboured under. I must then, my Lucy, leave Sweet Harriet, my ever revered Mrs. Bromley, and the charming recluse, Caroline Lenox, whom I make a point of visiting daily.. She is well, and contented in her peaceful retirement. — She wishes. She says, to enjoy that state of mind So elegantly expressed by Pope,
** How happy is the blameless vestal’s lot T ** The world forgetting, by the world forgot :
“Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind!
** Each pray’r accepted, and each wish xesign’d !”
H 3 I find.
174 Distress Virtue j or. The
I find, by Harriet, that Sir Charles Belmont has never made Mrs. Bromley acquainted with his tender for a certain friend of yours; owing, it seems, to his delicacy, that I should not be distressed by any importunities of Mrs. Bromley, as her whole heart would here been greatly interested for this alliance. Yet the dear girl fears, if it should ever come to the knowledge of miss Clifford, it will be no Secret. Certainly the latter must, look upon all earthly love as mere vanity and vexation of Spirit — as, indeed, too Surely it is.
Harriet has just received letters from Leghorn, ‘ by which she learns that her excellent parent is
in
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 175
in perfect health, but under great anxiety for his long lost louisa, and still will likely remain So, ns he has not yet heard any tidings of her.
In leaving this beloved spot, I shall, however, have the satisfaction of feeing my dear miss Nelson tolerably recovered, and under the protection of the best woman, with the best heart in the world. Long, very long, may she enjoy that happiness.
I am just going to bid adieu to the lovely Caroline— — Monday I hope to reach the Priory, and to spend one night with my inexprefiibly dear Lucy, who will find that, in every place H 4. and
lyfi Distressed Nlrtue; or The
and fituationj, ’ L am her tenderly affectionate,
Mary Dorman,.
I, Shall have the happiness of corresponding, you. may be certain,, with Harriet, who is now in tears for my departure, and" She kindly permits my communicating her tetters to my Lucy. Adieu.
Many letters passed between these amiable and faithful friends, for the Space of three months; but as. they contain nothing in thern necessary to the chain of the history,, they are not inserted.
But we beg leave to inform the reader, that, unfortunately, miss Clifford,.
  177
clilford, who was still at Bromley Abbey, and who Secretly envied miss nelsotes beauty and accomplishments, was informed, by the officious Mr. Brett, of Sir Charles Belmont's affection for lady‘mary Dorman, and that he had begged his friend, Harriet Nelson, to plead shis cause. This affair. Sir Charles, in the utmost confidence, had imparted to Mr. Brett, merely, as is often the cafe, for the sake of talking of the beloved object.
Miss Clifford, who, though in fpite of all her prudery; would have been extremely glad to have been lady Belmont, was determined, ' with her usual art and hy h 5 pocrify.
lys .  The
pocrisy, to avail herself of this secret, by turning it to the ex tremest prejudice of the innocent, and unfufpedling Harriet; both, with her noble benefactress, as well as with Sir Charles.
To the latter, she Soon took an opportunity to write the following letter, which is a true copy of the deep hypqcrify, cunning, and extreme art of this woman.
As she was related to Mrs. Bromley, she had great expetstations of an addition to her fortune from that good lady. Her letter was as follows.
  miss Harriet ndson. 179
To Sir Charles Belmont.
Bromley Abbey,
My worthy friend,
THOUGH the bare idea of holding a correspondence, by letter, with any person of your Sex, is a great Shock to my delicacy, and to the Spotlefs purity of my mind; yet, after many Severe struggles and hard conflicts, religion enables me to overcome the strong tempta ^tion I have had to conceal from your knowledge, an affair which gives me great uneastness. My friendship for you has, however,
• got the better of my Scrapulous H 4 nicety
io   The
nicety in this respedt, A similitude of our minds and manners,, renders our friendly intercourse still stronger; and Sir Charles Belmont may command my Services — But where will this Subject lead me ^ i will drop it, and proceed to the Shocking discovery that prompted me to write, and at present will use no more digrefiions.
Know, then that you have been deceived, most grossiy imposed upon, by a person, in whom, I must Say, you weakly placed too great a confidence. Need I tell you I mean that young flirt Harriet Nelson?? how rny indignation rises at the idea of her deceit to the best of men! She it is that ‘ has

has most: basely injured you. You may be certain I have had the moffc undoubted proofs of this : — but I hope you want no afrurances to convince you of my Siiedfast regard to v'eradty,. and ufright dealing; in all my ways ^ which I shall ever retain, during my abode in this vale of tears.
Yes, Sir Charles, this vain girl,, this upstart, whom you waa pleased to trust with your pastion for lady Mary Dorman, and to beg her ash stance in an afifair of Such eonfequence, has, as I have Said, most grossly deceived, and injured you: for she never once opened her lips to lady Mary in your favour, So far from pleading your ^
cause,
it  j or. The
cause, her chief design was artfully to conceal it from her knowledge I whilst the deceitful huf fey, (how is my wrath kindled at the base remembrance of her unparalleled insolence!)!) the audacity to astlire her ladyship that you had often declared a pashon you entertain for herself; that you had offered both your hand and fortune, (impudent assertion!)!) her acceptance; and t\i2xjhe might become lady Belmont as Soon as she pleased.
Yes, my friend, she has had the matchless presumption, not only to lift up her eyes to you, but to brag of the conquest she has made. of your affections j which, sh
says.
  is
Says, till She has made ure of you, file Shall conceal from the knowledge of the od. womariy (meaning that dear.and excellent lady Mrs. Bromley,) who, in this respect, has been very weak to entertain So long under her roof, so very artful and wicked a girl. A very wrong step in our friend, to uphold So much pride and idleness : but people who encourage the vanities of this sinful world, ought, (and do frequently) to Suffer for it, You would be Shocked, was I to defile my pen with the insolent, and ungrateful, things She says of her deceived bencfatstress : but, alas! how have I been deceived myself!. I, who may,. I think,
justly
184   The
justly pretend to Some penetration 1 My universal charity has led me - to look Upon this falfe young creature with a favourable eye * and, during her illnefr, (with which heaven, in its wrath, was pleased to visit' her presumption)) constantly visited her in her apartment, and tenderly watched her recovery with even ajijierly affection.
How was I deceived! -- naughty, wicked girl! — You have, doubt less, lost that matchless woman,, lady Mary, through the vile insinuations of this wretch, (I cannot command my temper when I Speak of her,) whom She too much confided in.
But I will not aggrwoate matters
  Mils Harriet Nellbn. vaters
any farther than, to add, that you can have no opportunity now of setting the affair in a true light to lady Mary, as She is lately gone to the south of France with her
uncle lord B -- -- -. — Unfortunate
this, as, in all probability, so accomplished a lady will not remain long Single; and lost She muss be ever now to you. — Though Sir Charles Belmont need not despair of being united to one, adorned with graces of the mind, if not of perjon..
I have, I find, run into more, length than I intended : -- and toi one of your sex too — Is it pof -- fible } — but the Subject required ' me to be explicit, -- -! have only
to
x86   The
to add, that I Send by the bearer of this, who is coming your way, a Small Sum from my charitable fund, for the relief of the poor family you mentioned near Belmont Park. — I bless the Lord I have the means to do this, and charity is a favourite virtue with, good Sir Charles,
Your most faithful.
And zealous friend,
Susanna Clifford,
P. S. I forgot to mention, as a further proof of the matchless as furance of this forward huffey, that, during her illness, Sir Charles Belmont
  1s7
Belmont was her chief Subjedf j with many hints of a marriage; of a declaration of love you had made her. But I find my wrath beginning to rise; therefore must retire to my closet to endeavour, by meditation, to Subdue it.
This artful hypocrite had, doubt less, a double view in writing her vile letter; for as she had acquainted Sir Charles that lady Mary Dorman was gone to the South of France, with her uncle, (which really was the cafe) she flattered herself, that time and absence might cure him of his pafiion for that lady; and that the perfections, as she had the extreme
vanity
ffis.  , or. The
vanity to imagine, of her own; mind, as Sir Charles himself was rather of a grave turn, might incline him to a partiality in her favour; to which, fire imagined, this proof of her friendiliip in writing the above letter might not a little conduce : though her chief motive, it is plain, was to ruin, in the esteem of Mrs. Bromley, the worthy and innocent Harriet; her avarice being So great, stie could not support the thought of that most excellent young woman being (as it was very probable) likely to be remembered by Mrs., Bromley hereafter in her will..
As to poor Sir Charles Belmont, it is not in the power f language
  189
to express what he felt on perusing miss clifford’s letter; he was almost: petrified with astonishment.
Good God !” he cried, “can Harriet nelson, with the appearance of an, angel’s innocence, have idone this ?” — Then, in the words of Othello, he exclaimed.
If Jhe is false. Oh, then heaven mocks itself I”
But he could not, with the abused Moor, proceed to say, i’ll not believe it for he entertained not the least Shadow of a doubt of the veracity of miss Clifford. — Such, indeed, was her artful hy pqcrify, that She was esteemed by most of her accjuaintance as a very
good
io   The
woman > in which light Sir Charles himself beheld her. He really thought her So unexcepti onably just and upright, that he could almost as Soon have doubted the evidence of his own Scjifes, as her integrity. He lamented, indeed, that She had imbibed, (as did likewise Mrs. Bromley,) too gloomy a notion of religious truths, but even that propensity he looked -- upon as the effeo: of a mind naturally pious, and disposed, as he thought, to the practice of every moral virtue. He had known her many years, without having had any cause to alter his good opinioir of her; he looked upon the horrid letter as a proof of her sincere friendship
  191
Friendship for him, and was almost distratsted at the thought of having lost lady Mary Dorman by, what he imagined, the perfidy of his false confidant. He was himself of a most generous, unsuspecting nature, and looked upon every line in the accursed letter as So many undoubted truths. Inexprefiible was his disquietude. Sometimes he had thoughts of informing Mrs. Bromley of the whole affair, and how miserably She was deceived in her opinion of Harriet: but generosity, and the natural * goodness of his heart, checked him from any attempt of that kind, as her entire ruin with her excellent bencfactrefs must have been the confe
is Bistrest Virtue i or, Tke
consequence of Such a proceeding; : he therefore meditated no other revenge than that of leaving her to what he thought thejsliqgs .of her own guilty conscience would in ilidt. — — Alas! how was he deceived in his opinion of the injured, lovely Harriet— — who in reality, had ‘pleaded his passion to her friend with her utrnost powers. of persuasion 1 — She, who had •endured conilidis, in Subduing, her own unhappy. Secret attachment, till She was reduced to the brink of the, grave, was, through the deep artifice of the abominable miss Clifford, now become an object of detestation to Sir Charles Belmont. He now began to recoiled many
little
History osmiss Harriet nelson. 193
little circumstances which had never occurred to him before, for he had but little vanity, but which now convinced him of Harriet having herself entertained hopes of gaining his affections; and he now looked upon all her little as fiduities to oblige him, as So many artful baits to ensnare his heart, and every appearance of deceit he detested. He recollected, with indignation, her frequent Sighs; (alas 1 he knew not the struggles she felt in suppressing them!) her extreme readiness in Singing or playing Sooner at his request than any other perfon’s; and the visible pleasure which Sparkled in her eyes, whenever he entered the room vol. II I where
t94  ; or. The
where flic was; with a hundred other nameless attentions which he had never observed at the tirrie. Flis pride, for every man of his rank and fortune has Some, was a little alarmed at the presumption of a girl, ' in her station, forming, at once. Such bold and sanguine hopes : for he had never so much as made her even a common compliment on either her beauty or accomplishments. In a word, he now looked upon the innocent, unhappy Harriet, in no other light but that of an artful girl, who had most cruelly and fpeciousty deceived him; and from that moment, as it will easily be imagined, he renounced all connexion with her. ’ Sorry
  195
Sorry am ITO leave this worthy man in Such inquietude, but it is necestary to. inform the reader, that great was the joy of the wicked; miss ■ Clifford, on her receiving ia letter from Sir Charles Belmont, Such as her heart could wish, in refpetst of miss Nelson.
Her next step was to injure her in the opinion of the good Mrs. Bromley; which she most fush* ciently did, as will be Seen in the letter she wrote to lady Mary Dorman.
That amiable lady had been fet out with her uncle, and his family, about a fortnight before for the South of France, but had Sent a particular desire to her be i 2 loved
i9'6   The
loved Harriet to write very frequently, as her letters would be forwarded with great care.
For obvious reafohs, the reader will imagine the vile hypocrite at Bromley Abbey did riot choose to •fet her artful Tnachinations on foot till she was certain lady Mary had left England: but what was the inexpressible grief of that faithful friend, when she received at Paris, in her route to Montpelier, the following letter! '
'■ let
  miss Harriet ndson. 1^7
letter XXXIII
Mijs Harriet Nelson, io Lady Mary Dorman*
angel inn i St. Albans.
HOW great will be my dearest lady mary’s astonishment to receive a letter from her miserable Harriet, dated from an inn, on her road to London I -- -- 0 my ► best, my onfy friend — for, alas!
I have lost Mrs. Bromley for ever!
- — what words, what language, can be found to paint my present most unhappy situation I But as Soon as my tears will permit me td undertake the painful talk, - I must I 3 proceed
39s'   The
proceed to give your ladyship aa account of my dismishon from — -
0 my bursting heart I do I live
to write it? — from- -- -- -- dear
my ever refpected Mrs. Bromley.
I know how much your ladyship’s kind, tender, sympathising nature will Suffer, at the astonishing, the cruel tale I have to relate. Indeed, I am not a guilty creature : lady Mary knows I am not: and yet I am almost distracted. Conscious innocence must be, next to heaven, my only Support. -- -- -- But
1 will not keep my dearest friend longer in suspense.
For the last week I was at Bromley Abbey, I perceived an amazing coldness in my beloved benefac
trcfs
  199
tress tq her once happy Harriet. She Sometimes looked on me with a kind of indignation, which gave me inexpressible grief and astonishment. At other times, I could perceive a tear trickling down her cheek, which pierced my very Soul; but her resentment Seemed to get the better of every tender emotion in my favour. For two days she scarcely Spoke to me, and then it was, — — Miss nelson do this, or thatnot her dear girl, her own Harriet, ’' as usual.
I could not bear this, and was often going to throw myself at her feet, to beg an explanation of this cruel alteration. I Spent my steep i. 4- kssi
200 . j or. The
kfs nights in tears, and my days in misery, beyond expression. I mentioned my extreme anxiety to miss Clifford, who has behaved to me, ever since your ladyshijd’s. departure, with great kindness, and, indeed, lately, with very great friendship; and has often Said, she should make up for my loss of lady Mary Dorman, by endeavouring to Serve me as much as lay in her power; and has frequently told me, if she w’^as not So agrees able., she would be as Jincere a friend as your ladyship— — mention this to compensate, in Some degree, for my former dill ike to miss Clifford. — But to pursue my melancholy story.
I ini
  201
I imparted to this lady my grief and Surprise at Mrs. bromley’s altered behaviour. “Indeed, ” Said Iliej ‘‘ my good miss Harriet, I have observed the alteration with the utmost concern; but I have not the least idea of the cause cf it: it is to me an inexplicable mystery; Mrs. Bromley has never given me the least hint. — I should rather imagine, for we are poor. Weak mortals, that, through the iickleness of human nature,, she is disposed, perhaps, that you should, quit Bromley Abbey. -- -- Not that I have ever heard a word : — but, you may believe, this strange, inconsistent behaviour of my old friend gives me great perplexity.
. I 5 Have
i02   The
Have you no Secret enemy that hasf done this? Perhaps Mrs. Bullen,. or Some other of the Servants, has been tatling an idle tale to your prejudice.”
I replied, I knew not that I had an enemy in the whole house; neither was I conscious of having done anything to create me one.
“Indeed, ” said she“ “good girl, I believe you: but if this Should be owing to an enemy, you must forgive the injury, for charity covers a multitude of sins j and the lord’s will be done in all things.”
I was determined to beg of Mrs. Bromley an explanation of her conduct, but an incident happened
the
  miss Harriet Neflbn. 203
the next day, which Soon, too fa tctly Soon, led to it.
Sir William Danby had invited' all the family at Bromley Abbey to dine with him. Your ladyship knows I had always the honour of attending my beloved Mrs. Bromley to all the neighbouring families. I was just preparing myself to dress on this occasion, though with a heart opprested with anxiety, when I observed the chariot making ready, and not the poji -- coach, ais usual.
The maid who attends me coming into my apartment, I asked sher who were going to dine out,, as I Saw a carriage was making ready. She told me Mrs. Bromley 16 and
204 Distress Virtue; or. The :
and mlss Clifford were going by themsdves in the chariot. This apparent cold neglect cut me to the Soul. That moment Mr. Bromley looked, in, and with an averted face. Said, “Miss nelson you do not go with us — we Shctl dispense vtith. your company'
O, my dear madam!”
That instant stie stint the door with great force, and I heard her walk downstairs. I burst into a stood of tears, and stung myself upon the bed in an agony of grief not to be expressed. I spent a miserable day; but was determined to know my crime as soon as Mrs. Bromley returned from her visit; which stie did about Seven in. the evening;
  205
evening: She went upstairs immediately to her apartment. A poor woman coming just after, with a Small basket of Spring flowers, the produce of her little garden, I took the opportunity of carrying them td Mrs. Bromley, by way of introducing myself into her offended presence. She was sitting alone in a pensive posture. With the utmost humility I presented the basket.. She looked upon me. — O lady Mary I cannot, express it — with a fixed, composed. anger, that pierced my very heart. She was going to take the flowers; but, drawing back her hand, that dear hand I could have kissed and bathed with my tears, She Suddenly withdrew
aod   The
drew it— — there no one, > miss nelsbn, but you to bring this?
you who” ^ -- -
I could hear no more — — I flung. myself at her knees.
O my dearest, my ever respected friend, and excellent bene fadtress, for heaven’s Sake inform me, what crime I have been guilty of to merit your displeasure!! me outright, for I cannot bear your frowns. G inform me, my dearest madam, in what I have offended. — ^ — Heaven is my judge, that -- -- ”
‘‘ Hold, She replied, call not heaven to witness to treachery and fallhood. Gould I have thought it possible?? — go, you are a
bad
  miss Harriet ndson. ioy
bad girl. — Such art. Such deep cunning, and design— —! how have I been deceived! — Ingratitude and perfidy! — Unpardonable!! — night I intended to acquaint you I have no farther occasion for your services Sorry, inexpressibly Sorry am I that you ever came into my family; but tomorrow you leave it for ever. Once more I repeat, I have no further occasion for you. You have, by your artful, base Schemes, deprived me of the chief comfort I had fondly treasured up in my old age, the feeing completed an union between two of my dearest friends. Was it not enough to frustrate the passion of Sir Charles
Bel
2, c8   The |
Belmont for, lady Maryj but you must, presumptuous girl! lift up your eyes to an alliance with the worthiest of men,, yourself I gave a Scream. What further (he Said I know not, as I instantly sunk upon the stoor in a strong fainting fit. To astist me in my recovery, I imagine Mrs, Bromley had pulled the bell for her own >ood attendant mrsi Bullen; by whose cruel kindness, I must call t, I was Soon restored So much to ny senses, as to feel that I was niserable beyond all human re irefs. Mrs.. Bromley had not left he room, and feeing my senses eturn,. she ordered Bullen tore' '
  ^ogh
O, my dearest madam, for heaven’s Sake hear your miserable Harriet !” exclaimed I, the tears streaming from my eyes, “what fault, what crime have I committed } — Lady Mary and Sir Charles you mentioned : God knows my innocence concerning
-- -- ^” '
“Hold, ’' cried Mrs. Bromley, in a calm but resolute tone that made me tremble, “call not again on heaven to witness: : have proofs, on which I ground my resentment, that are indisputable: : vindication, therefore, is unnc cefiary. I expetsted you would say what you do; but I will no longer keep So dangerous a person under > my
. , The
my roof. Hear me, miss nelson,, for the last time; had you attempted to steal my purse, easily. Should 1 have forgiven the theft; but stich base deceit I Such horrid art I Such premeditated cunning S
-- -- -- 1 pafs over your ingratitude.”
— —
Ingratitude I Indeed, dear madam, you wrong me, greatly wrong me
** 1" Said She, angrily rising to leave the room, “did I not tell you I had the strongest proofs? I am not used, miss Nelson, to take any violent measures, without thoroughly weighing ever circumstance. — tomorrow morning you
leave:
  2j i.
leave my house : my ehariot shall, convey you as far as St. Albans, fromi which place you may easily get ta’ London the next day by the stagecoach. I mention. London, be cause I have heard you talk of a family there with whom you are acquainted. I will not send you away empty, Fere is fbmething — a trifle, ta bear your expenses on the Toad— — heavens J so
* The good-natured reader may think; Mrs. Bromley Severe in this resolve; but as shg was misted by the vile miss Clifford, and abhorred a deceiver, which she believed the injured Harriet was, in the highest degree, it i not to be imagined she could any longer entertain, in her house, So artful and dangerous a personas she believed miss Nelson to be,
young.
2T2i Distrcst Virtue; or, The
young, and So much art— — your Sake, miss nelson, never more will I trust to a countenance which wears So much the face of innocence. How are we all deceived f - — Poor lady Mary !■ — Miss Clifford too! — that good woman is now weeping for you in her closet: (he cannot see you. Heaven forgive you. — Farewel.’'
O, my dearest madam, hear rne — 1 beseech you hear me 1” — But She was gone — had left me for
ever! -- -- O my bleeding heart! I
have not Spirits to proceed..
^ vu
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ WI
now resume my melancholy task. — Mrs, Bullen immediately
came
  213
^ame to me. At which time I was almost stupified with amazement and grief.
“My dear miss nelson, ” Said the good woman, “how Shall I tell you, that I have orders from my lady to astist you instantly iri; packing up your clothes ?”
“Yes, ” said I, “I go for ever — but, dear Mrs. Bullen, what is the meaning of this ?”
“I know not, indeed, but you must have some powerful enemy, — Some horrid story. Some vile falsehood must have been told to my lady, or this would never have happened. — O, my good miss nel fon, how can I bear the thought of this dreadful separation?” ?”
'
it  j or. The
Shekindly folded me to her maternal bosom, and afiisted me in going to my apartment, for I could hardly stand. When we came there She informed me that, by order of her lady. She had acquainted the servants I was Lent for to London to see a sick relation — This, however, was kind, in the dearest, but rnost deceived, ' of women.
Here Mrs. Bullen began her tnelancholy task of packing : as to my miserable Self, I was almost blinded by my tears, and incapable of anything. I asked the worthy woman if She could for many conjecture who my cruel enemy was.
^ ‘ Heaven only knows, my dear, but — I never liked miss clistbrdc*
It
  215
It cannot be her, Mrs. Bullen, for She has assured me She knew nothing of the matter; and has, besides, been very kind and good to me fora considerable time past The kind woman stiook her head.
My dear miss nelson, heaven in its own good time will do you justice. I know not, indeed, the author of this cruel injury; but the Almighty forgive them whoever it be.’*
This good woman would not leave me the whole night, which I Spent in lamenting my wretched
fate. -- -- Every ornament, with
which my ever revered benefactress had been pleased to present me
with.
*2i6  The
with, and other things of value, I left in charge of Mrs. Bullen, to deliver after my departure to the dear lady, for J would not keep them; all but a little miniature picture of her resemblance, which She presented me sometime ago, I say I left, and that I will keep for ever for her sake. I then looked over my little stock of money, and found I had, exclusive of Mrs. bromley’s present, only seven guineas; having unfortunately, but a week before, laid out a considerable sum, as it happened, on some unnecessary apparel. This was unlucky! The worthy Mrs. Bullen kindly in treated me to accept of her purse“
“
i^istofy osmist harrietnelson. 217
Alas! my dear yoiing lady,, why will you not accept it? (for I was strenuous in my refusal) young as you are, unprotedled, and among, strangers, what will the trifling sum, avail of a few guineas? What will you do for a Support — ”
‘‘ Endeavour, by some kind of. industry, to work for my bread.. I have hands that disdain not employment, and the family I am going to will, I hope, hear of Some' proper sttuation for me, till the arrival of my dear father’’
At Seven in the morning I heard the sound of the carriage, wbiclir was to carry me from the beloved house, from my excellent, my dearest, but deceived, Mrs. Bromley vol.il K Mrs
Distress Virtue; or, The
Mrs. Bullen attended hie to the chariot, in which the kind womam had put a little basket, filled with
cakes and Sweetmeats. -- -- -- 1 wept
upon her neck.
Tell, ” Said I, in a voice Scarcely articulate, tell the kindest, the best of women, that I will pray for her to my latest breath, and that I am innocent. — Farewell !”
I fistnghmyfelf into the chariot in a condition not to be deferibed, and it drove directly off with me, Alas! what a day has this been!
About four this Mternoon I arrived at St. Albans, andto ^tnorrow I go on to London, -- Tout ladyship will ask to where there am 1 going to direct my steps Her - - - miserable
  219
miserable Harriet is going to a Mr. Wade, a distant relation of my, father’s* Mrs. wade is a worthy woman; and they have a daughter about my own age. What an af stidting circumstance, that my dearest lady Mary .Dorman is not now in town! Her gentle bosom, the Seat of tender friendship, would have shared and lestcned every grief of her poor unhappy friend.
A few tears will yet slow, and ever ' will; when I rested: that I have lost, for ever lost, the affection, the esteem of that best of women, Mrs. Bromley. But, .my dearest friend, is it not an inexplicable mystery? My benefadress hinted. to me Something about ingratitude,
K 2 as
Distressed Yirtue; or. The
as, well as accused me with art and cunning. Alas! what could; She mean ?-^ — What, is this dark, this horrid affair? — But it is impossible to know what fhehas been
informed. -- -- Can miss Clifford?
— Surely not. — But it was strange her not feeing me before my departure 1 — If She is falfel — but heaven will do me justice in its own good time. — Pity, my ever dear, and ever kind friend, my miserable state. Surely, that of lio human being can be more so, than what is now felt by
Your ladyship's most obedient
But astlided^
Harriet Nelson.
P.S.. la
  At
P. S. In obedience to my dear lady mary’s commands, I will write as Srequently as possible.
Among the elegant little repast Mrs. bumen had put in the baske>^
I found, in a Small box, wrapped up in papers, the purse I So warmly refused, and in it were ten guineas. — Generous, good woman! I may, too Soon, stand in need of her kind present I
Heaven preserve my best, my dearest friend! 1 am harraffed al ’ most to death. Sleep is entirely banished from my weeping eyes. The kind hostess is just entered to beg me to endeavour to eat. Alas! Tny opprested heart is just ready to break! — Adieu! my noble friend, f K 3, L E T
______ ______ _______ ______ _______
s22  : or, The letter
XXXIV
Miss. Harriet nelson, to Lady Mary Dorman.
Londont
My last letter to my dearest friend, wrote three week ago, contained an account of such exquisite distress, that, at the time of my writing it, I imagined it was impofiible a more miserable being could exist, Alas! I have experienced such a variety of misfortunes Since that period, that i imagined it almost a miracle I could Survive it.
Now
  22j
Now, indeed, my beloved friend, my heart is broken! — Could you have thought it possible for Sir Cliarles Belmont to be unkind, ungenerous? — But, heavens, how has he been missed, deceived! — Surely he cannot, for ever, cast off from his friendship, his esteem, the miserable Harriet, for whom he so Soleranly eng^^ged a perpetual amity! — and yet his cruel .letter!
• — Your ladyssiip will ask ** is the meaning of all this I And if I am really quite distracted.” Indeed, I believe X am: — but I will begin with my melancholy story, from the day after I last addressed your ladyssjip, when I arrived Safely in London.
K 4 I took
22-4   The ■
I took a coach, and ordered ' to be drove to Mr. wade’s in Piccadilly; upon stop^ng at thehouse, I was not a little Surprised to see it 'entirely Shut up, A Servant, •who was looking out of a window ‘ at the next door, told me, to my ■inexprefiible concern, that Mr. Wade and his family were all Set out for Ireland about two months before. guess, my dear lady Mary,, my disappointment! Two or three more people, from the adjoining bouses, confirmed this very disagreeable incident. One good-looking woman, particularly, came out of her shop, whom I beckoned to Speak to. I ashed her if she, for the evening came on, could re...
  2-25
commend me to a Small lodging in a' reputable family, or if she could accommodate me in her ovtm house it would be more agreeable; for that I was extremely fatigued, being just come off a journey. She informed me she did not let lodgings, but kindly added, if I would shake shift with one room, in the back part of the house, which was nil she had to Spare, she would gladly receive me. She was pleased to say she liked my looks, and that k was pity I should have a lodging to Seek folate in the day. I slighted, and we Soon made aa agreement. This good woman kept a Small china shop, and lived very comfortably. I found a vio* K 5 ■ / leilf
•226   The
lent head aqh coming on,, and desired my bed to be got ready. Mrs. Brown, for that was the name of my landlady, assisted me, in undressing, her maid being absent, and feeing my eyes Swelled extremely with weeping, I was obliged to tell her 3 had parted with friends in the country, who were extremely dear to me. -- Dear, indeed
I went into my bed, after having, on my knees, returned heaven thanks for sending me a Safe asylum, at least for a few days, in the house of this good woman : it was, indeed, providential, as I might have inquired at Several houses before I had found a place convenient in which my wretched head to.jay, My

My ideas were So confused, my heart So torn by the cruel remembrance of Bromley Abbey, that I was not able to form any future Scheme of Supporting myself; but I intended to desire Mrs. Brown to make an inquiry for Some worthy family.
I Spent a fieepless night; and found, before morning, my headache increasing to a violent degree, attended with great thirst, and every Symptom of a fever; the consequence of grief and fatigue.
Mrs. Brown came to me in the morning, and found me very ill. She kindly desired me not to hurry my Spirits; and begged to send for an, apothecary, who,, on com k 6 ing,
____ ___________________________ ____
2 28:, Distressed Virtste’; or. The' I
ing, and examining my pulse, declared I wasi in a high fever— — !' how' doe my dear lady mary’s heart bleed for her poor unhappy friend— — had a nurse to attend me, and, for a week, was extremely ill It seems I had been delirious at times; for both Mrs. Brown and the nurse informs me, they frequently heard me call out on the names of lady Mary, Mrs. Rromley, and Sir Charles r but by the peculiar virtues of that excellent medicine. Dr. james’s Powder, my fever left me, andin twelve days I was able to leave my bed.
'As Mrs. Brown had an excellent servant.. I was so much recovered.
  miss Harriet nefsoff.
recovered, I had Some thoughts of discharging my nur southeast; but in this I was prevented, by her leaving me without that formality; for one morning early, whilst I was asleep, Ilie: broke open my portmanteau, out of which She took a large quantity of my best linens and a Small box in which I kept my cash, also the bank bill my dear Mrs. Bromley had' preshnted, me.. In stiort, this wretcte carried off all my money, excepting a few ihillings which I had in my pocket. this was a terrible: stroke indeedhs' All Search was vain y and poor Mrs. Brown, whom stie had, liker wise, robbed of Some plate, was €>biiged^> with me, to sit down with
shot
{pistrest Virtue; or. The
the same content, or’rather discontent, under this Sad misfortune To me it was dreadfully So. Young, entirely among strangers; not a friend in London to whom I could apply for cash ^ my dear lady Mary, and my excellent father, both abroad in foreign lands ^ all these cireurnstances together, made my cafe truly deplorable. I begged Mrs. Brown, to whom I was obliged to relate part of my distress, to inquire for Some lady, who wanted a person to attend her in quality of an upper Servant; at least for the present, till my father arrived.
This the worthy woman pro piifed to do, as She had customers
who
Hillory of miss Harriet nelson. 231
who were people of fashion. I however, wanted money fpr my present exigence; and what could I do r t. fut I w now hastening tp the mofi: fiercmg^ the mosh heart felt^ of all my Sorrows.
As I gathered strength pretty fast, Mrs. Brown kindly dnvited me to go down into her dining -- room, whenever X thought proper to amuse rnyfelf with looking into the street; wherr one day I observed a chariot stop at a house almost oppplite^ with Sir Charles belrnont’s footman Gregory, behind it. — — i was fluttered, greatly, but I thought I should have sunk, when I saw Sir Charles himself alight from the carriage, and go
into
  The
into the" house. Happily Mrsr. Brown did not observe my confusion. I asked her, presently afterwards, who lived in that house ?■ She replied, ‘‘ A baronet out of the country had lodgings there, hut she could not recollect his name.” A kind of languid joy rushed through my feeble heart; Heaven, thought I, has perhaps given me this opportunity of clearing my innocent conduct to this worthy man, if Mrs. Bromley has informed him, as was too proba tle, of her having discarded me. At least: I will, in my present distress, try the strength of that friendjloip and ejieem which' had promised for cter to preserve for inev Full

Full of the most pleasing re fledfions, I retired to rest earlier than usual— — Said I to myself. Sir Charles Belmont will be mt friend: he will undertake to plead my wrongs to the best of women: he will Set the whole fair in a proper light: and he‘will, doubtless, assist mey on a reprefen. Nation of my great distresh, with Some present Small supply of easti y which, on my father’s - return,, will be repaid with grateful thanksv
I determined then, the next •morning, to Send him a few linesi Was there, could there be any impropriety in this proceeding? ‘certainly not.
That night I enjoyed a fweci.
■■.- fl eepfe
SJ4 ' .  The
steep, to which I had long been a if ranger. In the morning I wrote a letter, in which I represented my extreme affliction, in being dismiffed, in the manner I have mentioned, from Bromley Abbey; of my perfect innocence of what Mrs. Bromley accused me; begged he would allist me with twenty pounds, mentioning the circum ifance which had occasioned my taking this, liberty, whiqh should be repaid in a; stipulated time; and gave hirna full account of my Sllnefs, my distress, and the unavoidable necefiity to which I was reduced. — Sent this letter, and waited, with the most pleasing
hopes, ^ bran answer- -- -- --
false
  false, delusive hopes! for, O my dearest friend, what was my astonishment, my exquisite grief, when the next morning arrived an answer to my letter in the follow iiyg words 1
nmwm •
Mad A Mi
136 Distress Virtue; or. The MADAM;.
I am amazed, at your' writing to a maa whom you have So basely injured, So artfully deceived. Yes,, miss Nelson, Mrs. Bromley has informed meshow cruelly you have deceived me,. How ungratefully you have behaved to that worthy woman I have likewise been informed; and the whole of your conducst, I must confess, equally confounds and astonishes; me,. - ’ Heavens I
  237 Heavens! with what an appearance of innocence was I betrayed 1 I will not repeat the cruel partis culars: Suffice it to say, through your artful means, I have lost the ^ loveliest, the most amiable of, women! — O, miss Nelson, you knew my soul was fixed on her alone, and yet you could deceive me 1
All vindication will be useless And although my wrongs are too great and recent, to admit of my rewarding so false a friend for her perfidy 5 yet your present necesfities are a sufficient apology
ajs Bistrest Virtue; or. The logy to me, therefore I have complied with your requefi:, which you will find enclosed; and as a Christian I forgiv e you; but never expect, henceforwards, the. least esteem, or friendship, from
The greatly injured,
C Eelmont>
........
I Shall
Oistory df miss Harriet nelson. 2 j9
'T Shall not receive any more Letters, and Shall very Shortly leave the kingdom.
This cruel letter string me iiitd an agony of grief: indeed my heart is broken 1 — Sir Charles Belmont to renounce me! — But why do I blame that deceived, that worthy man?? certainly is right, believing me, what he now does, to treat me with this rigour. — Heaven forgive my -<: ruel, my wicked enemies! - Yes, lady
Mary, Sir Charles has renounced, for ever, the poor; the miserable Harriet Nelson My pen cannot.
ii40,
tiot add another word, at pressent, after it has assured your ladyship,
'...
clam, tmfelgriedlyj,
Her grateful and affectionato Harriet istelsok^
End of Volume IL
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
OR, THE
HISTORY
0 P
Miss HARRIET NELSON,
In which is included the
UNHAPPY S T O R Y
O F
Miss CAROLINE LENOX. VOL. III
DISTRESSED VIRTUE;
O R, T H E
HISTORY
O F
Miss HARRIET NELSON.
In which is included the
UNHAPPY STORY
O F
Miss CAROLINE LENOX. I n a Series of Letters. In three volumes. VOL. III LONDON:
Printed for F. Noble, at his Circulating Library, opposite gray’s Inn Gate, Holborn.
NDCCLXXXI,
A ’ t; • A rv b V' ' '. ■ 1 • .* » A, •. •...
.ba ■.
: ..4 ■; r ^ ^: b; ' ^0 V S N V
b" '-, ' //■ 'NO. -- -'- ^ LT ' • ■■- • ^, <■
, ^ 4n.. ASS. f: : ' V N f ‘^ ' C
. *• .► •%. - - ' - C' •»' ' - * ' * ' * “.' .'. * -. .*- •
* V... •*,.
^. ‘v **.-: '•'• *•. '*-•
'*’** v4 A • •*- A *. '..
.-.*•* ^ ^ ’r, ', • '
'* A, •,. A f. - r' - A V b • "-?. ' ' v's'a' * •-, M. • _ -- - ‘. '
rc --; L ■ rr: : \: N
f -..; - ^ T; N ■' ' L - C ■.,,
Ji^ *,. V -*. ^ * *■<'-.*•*?• .r * ** A '», V ^
h •• .'A.. .*•;, I J - nia: : •'. •? v^ ^ V ^ ^
- b: .'^; r • K V A
cb au. " - " •; '... L ■, V •••: ■■., : :
iai ’ ' C ■ ■.? ' *' * i : ■■'..
‘i' ‘ 'A ^ >. •< •■■-•; • V ■>- ^ • N ^•*
-, -■« .**,, ' -•■'.. - •• •■• i.'s ■ yid - > -■>. y A if -' '
^ • * I.
, •■ cvv''. / ' ';,. ' ■ •... -
L ■ ■; " ... N
js* ■ • d *. .'• ' ■ ■ '■ "" S
, o • : \.: vv_, .-. '•; -, i.. v: : ■ o; or..
•* • •, * • * ■' *. '* * ■ ^ '3 'AXE' •‘S ..*^5: 1: .?T -- V., ^ yjc^.z
bn'bl;., •. \ ■.,; ....,. - :
» r.. V, ^ ...
*‘T ^ 1 •.
'•**.? .* s s *•*
• ^^ ■. ^^ ^. • * I... ' * • 'i ~ ~.
* / • ^. '• Af -: ..AT.. '• f I'
-. b; ^s * ja.. X • *., * * V: : b' •> ’- L ^
V •■*'••’ A '. •. • * f fi •
N'L: : -.:, ■■■, -;... ■ ^..., :
■ -■ ^ A -'' V ■ ■ ' ' ■ A' ■'. '■ ' '
. ^ A, Sr A. ^. A - .... V ' T... y..
^ T T ■ /**% ’ " V "■ *; > / : * -• c
•, ■ ^, • .- -.; Il '. ^ • h.? •. /- ■ : r .■., ’ N •
A ' -. ■■.-) .....
•’ * * baa ■ ••»*■- ' AC,, •
* ' L ‘'•VC .‘^v; ?>; e ^ •- •
. ... V - -. ..^, A.
.* .* • !A: :;.. ^.. .... ^
b \ ’, -, .' N : n C ' - .V >.•• 0. 4
;. ■. ‘ •. • ■. y. "; • C ■ ' • ' ■ N.
V., *• * * * i ^ ^ * ■'■.*'*
■ > AF f u,,. 'j ' ' ^ y*f ' ** V b “* • i V .f : *•'- .1, '-4
. ■' ■•> - '• '; >'.•'f, ‘.., i’ah a'.' ‘‘te s •• 0 ira .i A
.1 4 • ■ ' ' ' * ■ '
L.... ‘ ' V
■' * i - - : .'■■'■.■■-■■'.• ^ V‘.
■ t, ..i - - : - ^ - - • - y..; V ^, ■'> i.
. - -, i ’ ‘r '.■* ..' ?■'■ _. ■ 1; '4, V -
'■ ■ - ■- v { -1.1 ■•'•■'♦ •• V ■ k. -.
'*• AA ’.‘va A ^ ' • ^* '. .^. ‘
* ‘ - \. f ‘ ^ .**•
*%.•«•••. • t,
A ■ *., b. r :. •, - * ^
'' “•• *. .A * • ■ •.
• ' A * ‘ ^ • * :. ' ’ • •' • * ' * A ' • ', • • '
■■ s 'b -■- o N, '.: 4.: 0.,,, ^.•-. ' ■
DISTRESSED virtuej
|»)
^ O R, T H B
^ HISTORY
J OF
Lmiss HARRIET NELSON.
, -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
nelson in Continuation, ']
V
S 13 EFORE I gios my letter, JTJ 'wrote a week since, I must make a little addition to it, to Send ^ by the Same packet, to my ever > beloved, dearest friend, with some ^5: further account of my melancholy situation.
A 3 Though
6  The
Though Sir Charles Belmont was So kind to Send me the twenty pounds, yet after considering a few days iu the utmost perplexity, how or in “what manner I could best Support myself for the future, I begged good Mrs. Brown to astist liie with her advice, which She kindly did; and the very next week, luckily, as I thought. She heard of a lady in the city who wanted an upper Servant to be about her persbl^, “
I dfest myself in, -^ clean linen gown, went to her house, and was introduced into her diningroom, where I found her with five children .about her. She was married to a merchant of good fortune,; though
  7
though both She and her husband, I before heard, were extremely parsimonious, but liked to keep up the appearance of people of fashioii.
When I had acquainted her with the reason of my waiting on her, she add rested me, as nearly as I can. recolledi: ^ in the following manner
** Young woman, though I give but moderate wages, yet your place, with pcrquifites, will be a valuable one. If you come to live with me, as I like your appearance, you will lead a very easy, quiet life. I fha 11 expect nothing more than that you dress me, walli, jstid clear starch my Small linen, ‘ : A 4. keep
S. Distrcst Virtue or. The
keep my apartment in order, and see the dinner and Supper Sent up elegantly.
As I do not choose to be troubled with a variety of Servants, you will not Scruple, I siippose, afiisting the cook in pastry, pickling, and preserving the fruits of the season. But, above ctl, your having a careful eye to these poor little things, ” pointing to the five children, will win my heart for ever. I mean dresting, attending, and walking out with them at - all your leisure hours. Your Spare time I Thai I expect to be employed at your needle. And when you have” -- -- -- -- -- --
Thus was she going on, when I inter
 miss Harriet nelson. 9
interrupted her, by Saying, that I feared I. was by no means equal to the talk of performirig So many different kinds of business“
“” file hastily replied,
you will not do for me -- -- -- An
idle young body is not the Servant I want— — shall not maintain any person in my family in a state of indolence. So, my dear, ' you may return from whence you came.”
. Which you, my amiable friend, lady Mary, may be assured I instantly did.
I have since heard, this is one of those over notable ladies who make the upper maid perform the office of a regular housekeeper, as lady’s, nursery, and house maid;
A 5 and
to ■  j or. The'
and yet expect all things performed with as much order and pundtu ality, as if they kept a regular servant in each of those offices,.
My good friend, Mrs. Brown, still continued her inquiries, and was so Successful, that in' a few days She heard of a lady in Berkley Square, who was in great want of what is called a htfy’s woman Here again I dressed myself plainly, butin a stight silk gown, and accordingly sat out to attend on the lady. A footman, who opened the door, desired me, very civilly, to wait a moment. This moment proved to be full two hours. At last I was ushered upstairs, - and found Mrs. Rugby, which waa
the
  miss Harriet kelson. r i
the lady's name, sitting in a very elegant dilhabille, with another lady, a morning visitant. They were deeply engaged with a French milliner; and I believe I was full ten minutes in the room before I was vouchsafed a look. When the important affair of caps was fettled, and the poor milliner, whom I pitied, released, Mrs. Rugby bade me approach.
My God !” said She to the other lady, who appeared to me to be above thirty | “see miss if the thing is not dressred out in a silk gown! ril be sacrificed, my dear Crowfoot, if this is not some gentlewoman come to present her tell”. •:
A 6 Oh 1/^
12  j or. The
“Oh !^’ Said the other, “never while you live, Rugby, engage with a decayed gentlewoman; I have been pestered to death with gentlewomen. Poor papa is immensely fond of an Abigal above the common herd of v/enches; but the rustling of a silk gown upon Such animals is, to me, the most shocking found in the world.”
‘‘ O horrid, ” returned Mrs. Rugby, I feel this moment what you mean. In my last nervous headache, 1 shall never forget it, my fine gentlewoman, Mrs. Lucy” -- -- -- -- -
Flere she was proceeding, when I interrupted her; for all this time they had not spoken one word to
me.
  13.
me, but were entertaining them selves with my appearance, and, with their arms laid upon the table, staring me, both of them, full in the face.
Think, niy dear friend, what I must have underwent during this mortifying conversation; at length my patience being exhausted — “i understood, madam, you wanted a Servant.”
“A Servant I do want, but not ’ a fine lady. And what, my pretty creature, may be your name? Is it Leonora, or Constantia, or — — V
That moment entered her hush
band -- -- - “Pry thee, my love, come
and look at this girl.” -- --
I perceive, madam, you have HQ
14   The
HO further occasion for me, ” said I, retiring.
Mr. Rugby seated himself, and leering under my hat. Said, before I could quit the room, “How old are you, my dear t”
As I found these worthy people were making out their morning diversion at my expense, I once more curtficd, saying“ “came to offer my services, not to meet with insult.”
; Insult!” said miss Crawfoot,;. ** I shall die. — My dear Rugby, ” turning to thehufband, “you post tively shall go with me to the' opera tonight; for your sweet fpouse here is engaged in a party
at
  miss Harriet Neffon.
at home, and I have not been at; the opera these thousand years.”.
I was. now, by this time,, almost; got to the door.
But what, ” Said Mrs.. Rugby, “are you eloped from your friends, that your name is So profound a. Secret .^”
I make it none, madam, and immediately told her my namen,
Come, ” Said the husband ** love. Say no more to the girl: you hurt your poor Spirits, by talking So much to these kind of people.. — I believe this is the tenth you have had within thist month to look, upon.”
She stung herself back in a languid posture, Saying, ** I really
t6 Listrest Virtue; or. The
am quite harraffed to death with the plague of Servants. But, however, miss Harriet, my fine gay young madam, without being in Suited, you are at liberty to Walk downstairs as Soon as you piease.’ i was heartily glad when I found i was got in the street 3 and congratulated myseif on having escaped, from So much cruel pride and arrogance 3. as did likewise Mrs Brown, who had been much dei eeived in her character of the ladyv I told that kind friend, I feared it would be extremely difficult to meet with a family that would be Suitable 3 and that as I was very desirous of employing myself Some way, I begged she would procure
me
  17
me a little needlework, and likewise Some materials, with which I could paint a few fans, to sell to the shopkeepers. She kindly undertook both those commifiions: but an unlucky circumstance happened which must occaston my removal from her house, to my no small regret; stie having an aunt coming out of the country, who always makes use of my apartment when in town, which is the only spare room She has; but this: truly good woman has heard of a. little retired chamber, at a very low rent, in the next street, to which I am going to, remove this evening.
I will not grieve the tender heart
of
1$   * or. The
of my dearest friend with an account of my distress, your ladyship will imagine it must have been great, and certainly, in all human probability, it would have been ^ highly fois Sir Charles Belmont had not astisted me, as I have already mentioned; it is true I have a few laces, and two or three fiik gowns, that I could have disposed of to defray my expenres at Mrs. brown’s, if I had been disappointed of the favour of Sir Charles. -- Heaven will yet provide for me I make no doubt! That heaven who knows my innocence, ahdin whora I put my entire trust.,
I am now in good health -. therefore, my kindest friend, do. not ' Suffer
  miss Harriet: nelson.
Suffer a momencs uneafiness for your poor Harriet. I Shall do very, well. I have Some little ingenuity, which, with industry, will Support me till it stiall please the. Almighty to restore niy dear parent to my longing sight. Myi ever beloved, my good lady mary’s • letters, will be a Sweet comfort tome : — but I must wait with patience tillthe^rrival of the packet,; Your ladyship finds, I fear,, to the trial of your patience, that I obey. the kind commands that were giverv me, of being very particular in my narrative. — r i will not closh this till my arrival at my new lodging.
r. Doan
^0   The
# m # m m
Dean Street Soho.
I A M now arrived here, and am perfectly satisfied, nay even €oh tented, with a very Small back room up three pair of stairs. My landlady, a Mrs. Hartly, is an agreeable well behaved woman > and 1 am much mistaken if her education was not greatly Superior to the appearance The makes at present. She is very intimate with Mrs. Brown, who has promised to call upon me y so> between them bothy I shall not be quite destitute; o a female acquaintance to converse with,
Hope! Thou flatterer S Thou deceiver I remembrance of Mrs.
Bromley,,

Bromley, and Sir Charles Belmont, lay heavy upon rny mind, and pain me at my heart. Time only can convince them of my integrity.
Adieu, my dearest lady Mary I What a treasure do I yet postefs, in the honour of being styled your ladyship’s friend; :! It is the utmost ambition of the..
Ever grateful,
.And ever affectionate, Harriet Nelson,
R, S. Lady Mary Dorman is, j believe, the only woman of fashion who will kindly condescend to correspond with a poor girl in an obscure garret.
Ir E TV
Distrest'virtue; ter. The
LETTER XXXV
i^ifs Harriet nelson, to Lady Mary Dorman, London Vean jlreety Soho.
AS I have not yet had the honour of receiving a letter from my ever dearest and most respected friend, I fear. my last has been detained at Dover, by con *tfary winds. I rriust, however, continue writing, in hopes of some favourable opportunity of sending this. It is the only relief to my wounded mind; it is the only con folation I can receive, to pour my Sorrows into the breast of my •. absent

-: absent faithful lady Mary Dorman. After a day Spent in earning my humble fare in conscious innocence, what a refined delight is it to converse in all the confidence •of unroferved friendship, with the most noble 'minded of Women, whose kind condescenfion banishes every timid apprehension, I should otherwise feel, in do unequal a correspondence I
I have now been a fortnight in my obscure, but peaceful retirement. Mrs, Brown has found me employment in working at rny needle for the Shops, and I have painted a few fan mounts, So that my little earnings, for the present, keep me in tolerable Spirits.
I am
^4.   The
I am glad to find no other perr ion lodges, in this house excepting; one woman, who inhabits a little hack room adjoining to mine;. She appears very weak and ill, and hardly able to crawl upstairs. Though the poor wretch goes out once or twice a week to get what little provision She can afford, yet Mrs. Hardy, my good landlady. Says, She believes She is in great jiecesiity; for about a month ago. She had the misfortune to break her arm, by which means She has ■been incapable of getting anything for her Support.
Alas 1 how much does her mi^ sery exceed mine I Shall I complain, blessed with health, youth,
and.
  15
arid the means of Supporting myself in virtuous industry, whila this poor woman, among many thousands in this metropolis, is languishing III the extremity of poverty and weakness?? — she shall freely partake of my little earnings.
# m m m m m
I have just now, my dearest friendj been greatly affe<5ted with the inisery of the abovementioned poor creature. I had been downstairs, and in returning up again, overtook her on the staircase, conveying, with the utmost difficulty, a pitcher of water to her chamber. She Seemed ready to fink through
vol.iil B weak
26   The
weakness under her load, and her right arm was in a Sling. I eased her of her burden, and at the time discovered that She had in her •apron, the refuse, as I imagined, both of bread and meat, from the table of Some charitable, well difposed .Christian,, which She endeavoured all stie could to conceal.
When I got to her door, and had put the pitcher down, .1 was Seized with a strong desire of relieving her; and having a few billings in my pocket, which I had that morning received for finishing Some needlework, I stipped one of them into her hand. — Your poor Harriet, in that moment, forgot her own distress.
I blushed,
  27
I blushed, on presenting this little donation, as, notwithstanding the extreme meanness of her attire, there appeared in her a kind of air, or manner, which convinced me she had been used to better days.
As to her age, she feerned to me, to be between forty and fifty, but must have been very handsome in her youth, as she now retains even i a delicacy of features, joined to i the most perfect Symmetry and; sweetness: her countenance, though pale and languid, is the most ex preshve I have ever seen. The |
poor wretch was highly struck |
with my little bounty, and, with. | a faint blush, hesitated to accept | it, but, on my repeated entreaties, j she at last yielded. When
2S   The
When I had eonduffced her inta her apartment, I then left her, and went to prepare my own little dinner, consisting of a Small piece of mutton, with a bone of beef, of which I made Some comfortable broth, and carried a bason of it to the, poor woman, whom I found laying on her bed.
“What, ” Said she, fixing her languid eyes stedfasuy upon me, are you an angel Sent from heaven to my assistance ?”
“No, ” I replied, “in me you see only a poor distressed young woman, under the hard hand of necessity, as well as yourself; but happy, that she, by the bleshng of health, and industry, has the means
of,
  29^
of providing this Small Sustenance for your relief, which I most earnestly entreat you to take immediately, for indeed you Seem to want it.’"
Her extreme weakness astetsted me even to tears. I raised her up, and carried her my own pillow, which I placed under her head. She seemed equally surprised, and grateful. Seizing my hand, with a feeble pressure, she eagerly kissed it; and then turning up her eyes to me, cried, “God bless you, my good young woman !”
I told her I did nothing but what common humanity compelled me to; and that I should every day bring in Some small portion of B 3 my
20  , or. The
my own food, which her weak State Seemed greatly to require. She thanked me with her tears, and then I again left her.
Bless me! my dear lady Mary how many comforts has your Harriet! My ov/n apartment, for we can be only happy or miserable by comparison, is like a little palace when compared to the one of my poor neighbour. What pleasure shall I receivve, in Sharing with her my frugal meal! How great will be my Satisfadlion, if, with the little comforts in my power to dispense, I can raise the drooping head, and wipe away the forrowful tear from the pale languid cheek of distress I ^
For
  ji
For this last week I have visited constantly every day in her apartment, the poor unknown; and I carried her every morning a bason either of broth, gruel, or tea. She gazed upon me often with a kind of eagerness in her looks which greatly affected me. Yesterday her health seeming worse, I Sat with, her till midnight, when she fell into a Sweet slumber, in which I left her.
About Seven o’clock this morning, as Mrs. Hartly was pasting by her door, stie Said stie heard her groan; and instantly calling me, we both went to the unhappy woman, whom we found in a strong fainting fit. She had, I imagine, B 4, at
32 Distress Virtue > or. The
attempted to risf from her bed, but was unable through weakness. I fctl on my knees by her bedside,, taking her in my arms, by the help of good Mrs. Hartly, she Shortly began to open her languid eyes.
“O, is it ypn, ” fiie cried, ‘‘ is it you, ipy guardian angel, who re corn to my afiistance? Indeed V I arji very ill. Let me die in your dear arms, and I Shall fancy you are my own— — own poor child! — I once had a daughter! -- Cruel remembrance !”
Perceiving she began to ramble,
I begged Mrs. Hartly to assist me in removing her to my own bed; that I would Send for an apothecary
  zj
carry to attend her, and would myself persorm the office of nurse. The dear woman hearing me Say this, She called me to her, and insisted on my not expending anything upon her account.
“I have, ” continued she, in a feeble voice, by me a few valuable things, which I have hitherto preserved, as nothing but the last distress can induce me to part with. Be pleased to open that trunk, ” pointing to one in the room, at .the Same time giving me the key; “there you will find a little box, in which is a miniature picture Set with diamonds. The diamonds, you, my good young woman. Shall dispose of. As to B 5 the
34   The
the picture, it is the dear resem blance of my beloved, long lost husband. There is likewise another of my poor departed child; they both belong to bracelets worn by me in happier days.”
I accordingly opened the trunk.
■ — “Gracious heaven! what a dis covery have I to relate! Good God 1 1 am lost in wonder, joy and thankfulness., O lady Mary Dorman, the poor, the unhappy woman, who so much excited my compassion, is — unhoped-for happiness— — — my dearest, my long lost mother! — Yes my beloved I father! your poor Louisa is found — found in the arms of your happy I Harriet! My faithful friend, who
I know
  Miss Harriet Nelshn.
I know will participate in my joy, will long to hear how this amazing discovery was produced.
My dear lady Mary, S had no Sooner opened the trunk, than I discovered a quantity of very sin linen, with other" thiiigs Suitable,, which convinced me the owner of them had lived in a genteel fitua tioni The small eafket She mentioned I likewise opened. Several' tetters lay within it, diredled to a Mr. and Mrs. Southby, wrote in a handwriting I thought I had Seen before. I felt a fluttering strange emotion at my heart : — -■ but, my most amiable friend, what was my amazement! niy astonish -- men t! when I also opened a Smal k B 6 jbarcel.
[” 36   The
parcel, 'wrapped in cotton, and discovered two miniature pictures fixed to pearl bracelets, one the exact resemblance of my dear father, the other of a little girl about three years of age! I gave a feream, and fell back. Mrs. Hartly, who luckily was in the room, ran to my assistance. I could say nothing but the picture! — my mother I — fhc is my honoured mother! — Mrs. Hartly begged me to moderate my transports until I was perfectly certain of this happy event. I drew near to the bed, by the fide of which I kneeled, and presenting the portraits — “This, ” ' Said She, “is the exact image f my lovely little Harriet.
Look

Look at the Sweet Smiling innocence!”
“Harriet! did you Say madam cried I eagerly.
“Yes, ’' Said She, staring wildly, “do not deceive me; She was Shipwrecked on the coast of Cornwall, with her dear, her excellent parent. She and my Nelson perished, together, and each had a watery grave !”
1 could not contain any longer, being Satisfied the discovery I had to make, would more than anything facilitate her recovery. Taking my dear long lost parent in my arms, “I am convinced, madam, Mr. Nelson and your lamented Harriet, are both now living, and live for you — Imagine me that
happy
3^8 List rest Virtue; - br. The
happy daughter. I am your child, your own poor Harriet, if you are the daughter of Mr. Southby of Leghorn.”
She burst into a stood of tears, and for Some moments we both were speechless. She clasped me in her arms, in an agony of Joy and astonifhment!
Yes — yes — you are my own, my own dear child, my Sweetest Harriet! — but — thy wretched father! — Say — did he only perish ?”
I gave her,, as circumstantially as I could, an account of his preservation, of his never ceasing to lament her not returning to England, of our retirement in. Wales;
and
  39'
and of his being gone in Search, once more, of his long lost Louisa.
O, lady Mary, imagine our mutual transports! it is impostible for any language to express our joy our wonder, and our gratitude, to that gracious Being,, who has led me through Such inexplicable mazes to so transporting a discovery“
“God, ” cried I, was; it then my dearest parent whom: I made the, object of my duty?”
‘‘ And was it, ” She replied,. ** my Sweet Harriet, my onl)r. child, who preserved her wretched parent from perishing?”
My dearest mother - — O the Sweet sound! — has had some.
strengthen
40  er. The
strengthening nourishment, and is removed into my own apartment. Heavens! what an alteration ctready in her fine countenance! what an amazing influence has the mind on the preservation of the body! — our happiness is extreme!
How often does this enraptured parent fondly clasp me to her breast, and gazing on me in a kind of speechless extasy, “O my Harriet! my child !’' She will cry, “have I at last found thee found thee, adorned with virtue? gracious Heaven, it is too much !”
I long, I tell her, to know when her strength will permit, where.
  jvihi^iil^trieln^
where, and in what Tnanner she has all along Supported herself: and she promises me, in a few days, to acquaint me with all she has Suffered Since her departure from Leghorn : an account of which, by this packet, I will send to my beloved friend, who has So often been witness to my father’s - miserable uncertainty of the fate of his long lost wife.
I will lay down my pen, for the present, after I have assured my dear lady Mary that I am, most faithfully, her
H. Nelson.
, [Miss
42  i or. The ' # m m m m
0
[Miss nelson in continuation.']
MY dear parent, my beloved friend, within thisr last week has recovered Surprifingly. yes terday She was So much better,, as to give me a recital of her story, which in her own words, as She addreired herself to her. happy Harriet, I will, to the best off: my remembrance, faithfully tran -- Scribe.,
[The Hijiory of Mrs, nelson.]
“As I find my dearest: child is acquainted with the cause of
my
  4j
my remaining at Leghorn, after the departure of my husband, I will not dwell con the melancholy circumstances of our cruel Separation.
‘‘ When my poor father, your grand father Southby, was judged to be able to bear the voyage, we embarked for England; but we had not been at Sea above a week, before his illness increased to So great a degree, that he, as well as myself, imagined it would be impostible he could live many days'. I can no more describe my grief on this Sad occasion than I can his perfect resignation and fortitude, under the most painful and lingering illness.

44 Distress Virtue; or. The
jiess, which the human body is able to Sustain. His strength being quite exhausted, as I was one eyening Supporting him in my arms, — “My louisa, ” he cried, “I am dying. — Bless you, my good child I — persevere in that path of virtue, your dear mother and I have endeavoured to teach you. — May hcavcn con dud: you in shfcty to your excellent husband!! — my latest breath, receive a dying father’s last — ”
“Here he was deprived of ^ijy further utterance, and in a few minutes after expired in my arms.
The yeffel we came by was bound
  4|
hound to Falmouth, to which place I brought his dear remains! but, gracious God! what was my piercing affliction, my exquisite distress 1 when I heard, on my landing, that the very Ship, which had conveyed your dear father, and yourself, was wrecked on that coast, and every Soul had peristied I — My Sorrow, my distradtion on this dreadful stroke, is not to be described.
‘‘ After the interment of my poor father, I was Seized with a violent fever, in which I most earnestly entreated kind heaven to take me to itself“
“I recovered very fiowly^ I was under a necestity o staying
4^. Diltrest Virtue j or. The
ing Sometime at Falmouth, from which place I got to Plymouth, and then began ferioussy to think what method I had best pursue for my future maintenance,
‘‘, 1 wate an absolute stranger In England, but I remembered to have heard your poor father talk of a brother, who, though he had not behaved with the affection, naturally to be expected from one So nearly allied, yet never tlielefs, I imagined, in my cruel situation, could hardly be So inhuman, as not to afford me at least some temporary relief. He was then fettled in London, to which place I thought it best for nie to proceed, as many more op: :
of miss Harriet nelson. 47
portunities there might offer of Supporting myself than at Plymouth, where I then was. Accordingly I Set out, though in a very indifferent state of health Luckily there happened to be a lady in the stagecoach, who Seemed greatly affected with my distress, which I made no manner of concealment of.
‘mn the comrfe of my unhappy narrative, as she found I was a perfect mistress of the Italian and French languages, she advised me, by all means, to procure the place of a governess in Some good family : or to be a teacher in a board, ing fehool, she thought would be a desirable situation. She kindly
offered
48,,  j or. The
offered me her afiistance; but informed me She was under calamity as well as myself. She expressed much kindness, and told me she was very Sorry she could not afford me apersonal protection, for that She was in a dependant station, being only a companion to a lady of large fortune, but of a capricious baddif pofition. This agreeable and sensible woman, by her excellent advice, greatly soothed my distressed mind; and I was thankful to heaven for railing me up a friend in the midst of an unknown land. In fine, we reached London; Mrs. Benson, that was the name of my new acquaintance, recommended me to a Small retired lodging, but thought
r
Mistdry of miss Harriet nelson. 49
thought it moll advrsable, that I Should wait as Soon as possible on my brother-in-law, whose place of abode Ihe easily obtained, and Sent me a direction.
I drelted myself one morfi* ing, as decently as I could, and went to wait on this cruel, this unkind brother, and his haughty family.
“There is no character, I think, more contemptibly ridiculous, than an insolent, purjh^ proud man.
After I had waited Some time in the entry, a footman introduced rne into a handsome parlour, where sat a lady Sipping chocolate, and a girl about Seventeen at her elbow. ¥ol. III C
5©. .Distressed' Virtue; bti, Thet^
v My brother, but jswill mot again call hknt ifoa' ilemly afkedi me stirowing afiie a i book hc : was readingy What is yostn business woman with mei"'
“As to business,, I have none: but I thought humanityt would have pleaded powerfully in the behalf of a. distrefied woman— — wife of your only brother, who most’ Unfortunately was lost in his passage .from Leghorn, with our poor little daughter;
; was proceeding, when he immediately inter r up ted me, - - -
* How easily could this proud, pamperejd man, have relieved the grief of this poor woman, as he jc new her husband was .yetlivingd' • hut offended pride prevented him.
. Com
  5y:
Commah cant! what a trumpery tale is here indeed 1 — *-! Shall have you presently, I suppose, produce a pass from the last parish you came from.”
‘‘ Pa would have enough todo” ” the pert daughter, was he to listen to every tale of a Shipwrecked husband my pa knows better. — But you forgot, good” woman, part of your melancholy tale : have you not half a dozen poor starving children, crying for bread? - — for I think that is the common' complaint.”
“Well said, Kitty, ” replied this charitable divine, “yoit rally her insolence inimitably well.”
c2 O, ”
5^ .Distressed Tirtue; or The
O, ” Said She, these characters are truly entertaining. But come, let us hear the whole pitiful story.”
‘‘ miss, was your excellent uncle here” Laid I, “you would be ashamed of this behaviour.”
“O, ” Said the fine lady her mother, who was lolling on a Settee, “pray, Kitty, don’t affront your aunt, I beseech you. But my poor head is .quite disturbed with the babble of this woman. .Do, my love, order the Servant to see her Safely out of the house.”
Her obedient husband immediately rang the bell.
“A time may come, madim, when I may have it in my jfower

to Show that pity my condition merits, in return for the cruel insult I have now met with. And may that Being, ^" turning to the cruel man, “whom youprofess to Serve, toucte your hard unfeeling heart !’* “O, ’" said the lady, “this Ganting is insupportable!! creature frights me to. death f I shall hu ve my hysterics! — do, pray, my dear. Send her about her business
** words were no Sooner uttered, than a Servant came and. defined me to be gone.
You drop a tear, my Har -- riet! alas, my Sweet child! how little do you know the extreme ingratitude and cruelty of which C 3 the
0 . r, The
the human heart is capable! L was indeed glad to escape from the pride and inhuman insolence of this unnatural, hardhearted relation.
“In my way to my little lodging, I called upon good Mrs ben fon, to whom I gave an account of the reception I had met with. she was greatly concerned at the Shocking rehearsal ^ Said, She well knew, that offended Pride is, of all things, the most inflexibly Severe.
But come, ” continued this amiable friend,, “I have good news to impart; think no more of these worthless people. I have just been to wait on a lady who has two little girls, her nieces, whose father, a man of very large fbrttvn^i
s^ilsbry of miss Harriet nblson. ‘
’fortune, nbw in the East-indies, has entrusted to her the care 6s their education; and Ihe isdn great want at present of' a governess fdr this purpose. Nothing, Surely, ‘was ever more lucky; for you, Mrs.'nelfon, She was pieafed’to Tay, postefs the various'accomplishments for this oecafion; andhhis wery day you shall wait on Mrs.' .Dalby, and talk the matter over with her.’’^
d thanked this kind friend in terms full of gratitude, andin the evening she accompanied me to the house of the abovementioned lady, whom I found sitting with two lovely girls; the eldest about eight, the youngest six years old; both ' C if beau
I
-0'  y or,, l!he^
beautiful children. Mrs. Dal by ^ Seemed much leased with my friend’s recommendation,., and we.. came to an agreement : and as She was Shortly returning again to her family in Bengal, She. begged I would enter on my new charge as soon as possible; and in a few days I was happily fettled in this worthy family.. these amiable children excited all my tenderness: in their fond caresses..
thought I Saw my dear, my darling Harriet I, they had lost their mother ia their infancy, and, grew,, as is natural for children of that age, to be fond of me, their governess, to a degree of filial affection. Their,. namfil
  57
name Was Montague. Juliet, the eldest, was of a lively turn,; and inexpressibly beautiful; and the little Naney was equally lovely, equally engaging. They seemed asa. blessing sent from heaven to sooth the wounded mind of thy wretched mother: Their' innocent prattle, the uncommon progress they made in their attainments of what their tender age was capable, gave me inconceivable satisfaction, in which the good Mrs. Dal by expressed the utmost pleasure“
“I had now been many months with this precious charge, their worthy aunt, perfectly satisfied with my care, and attention,
C 5 pro *
Distrcst Virtue, c.
prppased leaving us, to go to her family abroad. As the house we were then in was hers, on her departure She intended dispofing of it; and it was Settled that I Should carry my dear little girls down to the mansion seat of Mr. Montague their father, in somersetshire i there to reside till they were arrived at years of maturity.
** This worthy lady took a tender farewell of my lovely wards, and committed the precious trust to my entire management. It was indeed a last farewell, as She unfortunately died in her passage before She reached the Cape of Good Hope.
“On her departure from England
  59 land, I immediately Set out for Somersetshire, with the little Juliet and Nancy.
‘‘I was delighted with Ashley Lodge, the name of Mr. Monta: gue’s seat, with the excellent Servants I found there, with the peaceful pleasures of that Sweet redre*** ment and, in short, with my whole situation“
“my yeung pupils made extraordinary improvements, the neighbouring gentry, to many pf which Mrs. Montague had heeii related, shemed to vie which should show most attention and respenst tg children So justly dear and amiable I cannot deseribe this happy perioci of my life sh well sh, the wpids C 6 " of
odi strest Virtue; or. The’
af a favourite author, that itwai^;
“Like the cdm .siirfaceosa summer’s Sea,.
So undistufb’d I So peaceful !”
, In describing the manner of our i^ending one day, I should give you an account of months and years for they all glided away in the same tranquil state;
My amiable girls employed themselves in the morning in reading, writing, mustc, or pairrting : and in the evening their highest delight was to visit the neighbouring cottages,. ta relieve the aged poor; to comfort the drooping heart of palid stcknefs> and to wipe the tear from the eye of affliction; Delightful talk! What inexpressible pleasure did their shining eyes
con«
  miss Harriet netson; Kt‘
convey to my fond heart, for I Ibved them with a mother’s tenderness, when they had, by their bounty, conveyed bread, to the fatherless, and made the widow’s heart to ling forjoy !” Sweet state of uncorrupted innocence! How soon art thou deprived of thy genuine beauty, by what is falsely termed politenefi and fajhionabje tifet:
“As the eldest of these lovely girls was now arrived to the age of sixteen, and the youngest to fourteen years, they were visited by all the neighbouring families of distinc •tion. Lady Pertland was particularly fond of strewing them every mark of polite attention.
She
6i D iff rest Virtue; or. The
She had two’ daughters nearly of the age of Miss Montague, but rather of a more lively turn. Lady Portland was herself extremely accomplished. She was a widow of large fortune, and lived in much splendour. She would frequently keep Juliet a week at her seat;; and the following spring,, on carrying her to Bath for the feason. It was in vain to" deny a requell made by a lady of so un exceptionsthle a characterindeed it was imposfible^
these little absences of Mish Montague though unavoidable, began to give me much umeafinefs, when I observed in her a kind of weariness of the former Sweet
plea *

pleasures of Ashley Lodge, an patience of the least control, together with a sort of bold; freedom, acquired in the polite world which shocked me. A country evening's walk, listening to the nightingale, became no longer a refined entertainment. She talked, : with the warmest rapture, of routs, bails, and the pleasures of Lady basset’s card assrembly at Bath. My concern to see this alteration was extreme t indeed, inexpressible j when I observed Miss Nancy, which was natural she should, greedily listen to the pleasures of the gay world. When I made any observations on any family of rank, or on any public entertainment,
she
  The
I she would hastily interrupt me,, by Saying, ‘‘ Dear madam, how should you possibly know these things, who are buried here at Ashley Lodge ?” I would, on these Gccafions,, gravely remonstrate; she, ^ on her fide, would shed tears of impatience; and I could visibly perceive, to my great grief, that the miss Pertlands had by their pernicious influence, greatly weakened my authority. The conver shtion of those young ladies Soon became insupportable, as it was chiefly made up of hardly any other appellation to each other than “fly. toad, fly divil, ” for so they pronounced it, or Some Such fashionable term upon almost every occa —
flon*.

fion. Exprefiions I did all I could to discourage.
“Whilst I was inly debating how my young pupils Should drop the acquaintance of these miss Pertlands, Mr. Montague returned from abroad. He had, about three years, before, ^ married a lady at Bengal, who returned with him to Settle in England. They both came down to Ashley Lodge, and, after some Short stay, the whole family returned together to London, where he had taken an elegant house in Hanover Square. Mr. Montague appeared, much pleased with my care of his children, now grown young women, and presented. me with a hundred guineas,
whichs
.  of, Thr
which I lodged in the hands of a’ friend of his, together with the little profits of my Salary f out of which, indeed, I had Saved no great matter, as my dear girls, for whom I had an unbounded affection, ofteiv when their allowances were ex -- hausbed, which was frequently the cafe, were Supplied by me,, perhaps with rnore pleasure than prudence, Mrs. Montague, who was quite the fine lady. Soon gave me oecafion to know, though in genteel terms, that the young ladies had no farther oecafion for my attendance, which was certainly true.
** The dear girls, when I left them, as I did with a gjief and anxious concern for their welfare, whicl»
 ..
which iiray be more easily imagined than described, embraced me with the utmost affection. I Spent Some hours in declaiming against the .reigning fphies of the fastiionable world, and pointed out the dangers accompanying them. • — Whether my precepts had any este(st, my melancholy story will too plainly evince. The hour of.parting being come, we took a tender leave of each other, and mutually promisc.d To correspond frequently by letter.
As my acquaintance lay chiefly in Somersetshire, for my good friend Mrs. Benson had now been some years dead, I thought my best Scheme would be to retire thither, and board in Some cheap Situation : - till
  ter
till I could hear of Some family off distindtion, in which I could live: as I had done at Mr. montague’s'.. I accordingly went to a village near Ashley Lodge, where I had. So long been known and: respedled, and took part of a little retired house where I lived Some months in much tranquillity,.
I am now going to mention circumstance, which I do more fa warn my dear Harriet against the perfidy of a false friend, than to display any kind of vanity, in saying, that during my retirement,, a clergyman in the neighbourhood, a man of an exemplary character and large fortune, whose name was Herbert, was pleased to entertain
a. very
  69
a very particular affection for your unhappy mother. He had known, me Some years, but had never de, dared himself, on account of my engagements in the Montague family. He now offered me his hand and fortune in the most generous and explicit terms. I own I infinitely esteemed him, but had not the least degree of that tender af tedlion which was only in the power of my lost dear departed, as I then thought, husband to inspire. My friends in the little village of Astiley were extremely solicitous for this alliance. Mr. Herbert had made me many visits, and sent me many letters, which his friend, a Mr. Turner, undertook
7°  j or, Tlir
took to convey to me. He was a Tort of confidant in this affair, and’ appeared always So much in my interest, having known him ever Since I first came to the lodge, that I entrusted him with the whole transhstioh.
^ One afternoon, as I Was sitting in a little arbour in an orchard which joined to Mr. turner’s ■gardenv in which Was a Small kind of summer house, ^ directly over the place in which I 'was sitting, a Mrs. Wilson, a very agreeable woman of my acquaintance, came to Spend the afternoon with me. She Soon began a con terfation about Mr. Herbert, and added, bewstre of a salse friend
‘‘as
.Dlistory of miss Harriet nclson. 7®
As I Was going to ask her th' lueaningv of' this ambiguous hint, ‘ we i heard Some body enter the; summerhouse * windows of which bemg open, we could plainly hear every word of their cconversation^ Mr.. Herbert and
Mr. Turner were the ^ party; the former began, Indeed, my friend, you much amae meti — • I have always looked uponvher aaca woman of— — ”
“know what you would Say, ’* interrupted the vile Turner; depend
upon it, if she marries you, ihcrative motives are her only in ducement. Vanity, for the perforr of the woman is well enough, you will iiady if you are So weak to'
make
- Listrest Virtue j Or, The
make her your wise, Will lead her into many fashionable exceffeso Be advised; think no more of this woman. She is artful, I am sure file is. besides, I can add another powerful difiuasive to this match. — Suppose I was to tell you. She has made me such advances that, — you know my meaning, good Mr. Herbert: her Scheme is to make sure of rne, if she does not Succeed with you. — But we will talk farther of this matter as we walk.”
“And away they went; for that moment they left the fummer house.”
Now, ” Said Mrs. Wilson, hope you are convinced of the perfidy
  miss Harriet Nellbn. 73
perfidy of thte falsh, pretended friend. Two reasons he'has fcf this base proceeding: one, that as he is disiantly related to Mr. Herbert, he thinks is own interest may Suffer in cafe of a family : the other, that, as he is the vaiii est mail living as to his person, his pride is not a little piqued at your ihewing any other preference than what he imagines is his own due.”
“I was indeed astonished at the ‘ baseness of Mr. Turner, who, the nest morning called on me. I stifled my refentinent, till after he. had made his usual professions of ffriendsiiip. He gave me a letter from Mr. Herbert, the contents
vol. m. D of
74 Distress Virtue; or. The f which, he Said, he was unacquainted with, but wished the wedding was fairly over, as his friend was a very capricious man.
Thou vile wretch, ” said I, know I am perfectly assured of. your treachery.” — I then repeated the substance of his conversation in the fummer house; which so irritated him, that he left me in a passion of rage.
‘‘ After his departure, I opened Mr. herbert’s letter. It was short, cold, and affrontive. In fact, he told me, that he should think no more of a woman who, on maturer

  75
t urer deliberation, he found was not calculated to make him happy. I mention this little incident to warn my Harriet against ever trusting an affair, of this kind, to a third person, or confidant; as they very rarely execute the important trust with the requisite fidelity V hich a business of so much delicacy requires.
“I did not, "even then, look upon the effects of Mr. turner’s' baseness, as any misfortune in life t and what a blesting do I think it that I entered into no second marriage; now that I find my D 2 deardst,
y6   The
dearest, iny beloved hufoand is still living! death, or madness must have been the consequence of Such an union, after this miraculous discovery.
I corresponded, on my fide, regularly with the Mistes Montague, but was grieved to my heart, to find their letters often wrote in a cold, hasty style. Every night they were going either to the play, or the opera : in Short, I found they were deeply imnierfed in the the gaities of a town distipated life. They informed me, they were just Setting out with lady
Pert
  77
Portland, and a large party for, the geritlan Spa. As I Till retained the moll: afiedfipnate fond ness for them, I was anxiouily fearful for their preservation.
About a month after their departure, Mrs. wilson, having Some bufiness in i^onddn, was; so kind to carry me there.' I wanted; indeed, to see the gentleman with whom I had deposited my Small film of cash, and for which I expected to receive a little interest; but, good heavens! what was my concern, and extreme perplexity, when I arrived in town, and was D 3 in
y8 Distress Virtue; or. The
informed this bad man had deceived the whole world in their opinion of his circumstances,, having fled the kingdom, with many thousand pounds of his creditors; who, as well as myself, were bb liged to bear our loss as we could, as it was irrecoverable. This was a dreadful stroke indeed upon me, to lose at once the profits of my industry, the only little pittance I had to depend on for my Support. What to do in this cruel Situation I knew not. Good Mrs. Wilson would have had me return with her again into the country; but I ■ - i ' * could
  79
could not think‘ of becoming a burden to her, as her family was very large, and her hushand’s income barely Sufficient for their maintenance.
“Heaven, ” Said I, to this kind friend, will provide for me I humbly trust > that heaven which is ever good, and gracious !”
■ “Mrs. Wilson, however, before she left London, was so lucky to hear, of a situation for me, which I most gladly accepted. It was to live as a companion with a lady of a genteel fortune, whose name was Compton. She. D 4 was
To diftrefl* vitiiie; or, The
was fiiiglc, about thirty, Iiand some in her person, but proud and fantaftica.1 to the last; degree. .S: ome ■tlilies I was treated with the greatest indulgence by this v/liimiical woman j and it was, my dear .^jelfon, ” at every word. ' The next hour, perhaps, nothing would please her. So that I was many times on the point of leaving her. The life of the meanest Servant in the house vas infinitely preferable to mine; for I perceived she kept me about her person, merdy to gratify her bouiidless passion of pride., Difagryeable as this
situation
Histdry df miss Harriet nelson. 8 i
Situation was, I However lingered on, (for living it could not be called) three years in this wretched state; when one morning, having: unsortunately thrown down a Small china cup.
She fell inte a’ violenf rage; and in short, after upbraiding me with my ingratitudey for her numberless favours, as she called theni, ' she bade me instantly depart her house.. I did most joyfully. As the small salary Ihe had allowed me, ' would but bare' ' keep me in clothes; (for when she was in a good-humour, I : saw d5: all:
82   The
all her company) I had not Saved a Single Sliilling in her Service, during my residence with her; I therefore found, having only a fews guineas which I brought with me, I Should soon be reduced to, a state not to be envied even by an enemy. I had, during my stay at Miss compton’s, frequently called at Mr. montague’s; and a servant, who was left in the house, informed me, her master was gone again to the East Indies, to settle some affairs; and that her lady, with the two rniffes, had taken a house.at Paris,.
when
  83
when they left the German Spa; but that they intended returning to England the Spring following. I was in pain for these poor young ladies in such a place as Paris, and under the direction of So gay a woman as Mrs. Montague. — How hard is it, my Harriet, to divest one’sfelf of a deeply rooted affecstion!
I was determined, when I heard of their arrival, to wait on my still dear Juliet and nancyj believing it might be in their power, among their numerous actjuaintance and friends, to hear D 6 of
g4   The
uftome family in which I might Support myself: for the present I took a Small lodging at a low rent, and for Some months got a precarious and Scanty maintenance by taking in needlework • but Such constant attention to iiiy employment Soon brought me into a very ill state of health.. For above two months'i was confined with a slow, kind of fever, which entirely exhausted my strength; and as I could not afford to purchase the nourishing food, and restoratives such an illness required, my recovery Was very doubtful; indeed
my
historyosmiss Harriet nelson.
my distress was great. -- But how do, I affect the tender heart of my ' dear child with this account of my misery!! will not dwell on the melancholy scene.
‘‘ My landlady luckily heard that Mr. montague’s family were returned to England. This iotel, ligence was a cordial to my fainting heart, : and from that hour I began to get a little strength.
“When I was barely able to walk So far as hanover fquare from my lodging, I fet out one morning to visit my beloved girls, as I still fondly called them. When I h^d -; gote
s6”   The
got, with difficulty, to the house, a French footman opened the door, and carried up my name. It is Scarce credible when I say that full two hours I waited in the hall before I could get an anfwdr. During this cruel fuspence, Some fine ladies alighted from their carriage, and ran upstairs, - as did two or three. Seemingly, most insufferable coxcombs. Heavens! thought I, are these the companions of the lovely, the innocent Juliet, and Nancy Montague?
‘‘ I Spoke to another footman.
Pray, Sir, let your young ladies know
  gy know Mrs. nelson is come to wait on themn
Good Vomans, ” Said the fellow in broken Englifii, “vas you de (jueen you could not be admits whilst Monsieur de Frizzeur, de hair dreiser, be vid mine ladies.”
“I told, him I had Seen Several ladies and gentlemen go, up.”
Veil, it is noting to de purpose for all datc’ And away he went for about ten minutes. When he returned, he Said, Good vomans, come dis way after me.”
Accordingly I followed him up
the
^8 Diforest Virtue; or The
the stairs, to the door of a dresting room, into which lie went, and again my name was announced.
“Well, ” Said Juliet, in a tone which pierced my Soul, “tell her Ihe mush wait— — no. Riviere,, come back. Let her know I will See her. — Now, my dear * Bell, and you miss Rackets, stiall be entertained with a sight of this good woman; with whom poor Nancy and myself were stint up for so many years, moping at ashley Lodge— — know, my dear creatures, you have often lamented our rustic education.”.
O
  89
“O horrid !” Said miss Racket, how you existed is to me amazing! For heaven’s Sale let us See her/’.
‘V Judge, my Harriet, what vere thy poor mother’s emotions, when stie heard this conversation! But how were they increased, when .1 entered the stresting room, and Saw my poor miss Montague under the hands of her hair dresser, who had just twisted up, into five hundred Scraps of paper, that lovely hair which used to be my delight, when it flowed in natural ringlets! How were the Shining
tresses
^0   The tresses distorted into the perfedlapw pearance of the head of a Gorgon! I hardly knew the once sweet Juliet. Pale as ashes, with late midnight hours, her countenance was become quite haggard, meagre, and wan. No longer her eyes retained their former brilliancy, but appeared sunk and heavy. Her idoom was utterly lost.
\ How do you, my dear Miss Montague ^ I hope ycur sister is well.”
She gave me a slight nod. — ‘ Sit down Nelson.”
‘‘ I told her I had been very ill,. and

and that it was with much difficulty I had reached So far."’
You had always, ’- Said fhc yawning, an ill state of health, I think.”
“I Saw the miss Rackets wink at each other; when. Said the eldest, So you will not possibly go, you Say miss Montague, to lady evergreen’s rout
** Upon my soul. Said Juliet, I never heard So unconscionable a little divil in my life as you are! How is it possible I Should? don’t you know that, after the opera tonight, I am engaged to -- to —
1 for
^2 Distress: Virtue; or, The
I forget her name^ a great fat creature, out of the country -- to go to Mrs. cornclly’s? -- but* but dtm’t you also know that I am ruined, absolutely undone? That abominable monster Lord 'Everplay, last night. stripped me, even, as lady Townly says, to the confiscation of my last guifiea. i -- Faith, I am half in the dumps about it. But you know his tricks, you fly toad, yet would never tell me.’^ ‘'how was I Shocked to hear this dreadful conversation!! — one word yet addrested to me.,
“My God, !” “said Miss Racket,.
look
  Mist harriet nelson, 9‘J:
looking at her watch, it is very near two o’clock, and that lazy huzzy, Nancy, not yet out of bed; ” vv^hy', ” 'Said Juliet, ’ Ihe ha's ah immense cold, which Ihe caught last night at So'hoi She drank her chocolate in bed this' morning, and that good creature, colonel Whiffle, is reading the new play to her.”
Heavens! thought I, do I live to hear this
“O the divinefellow !” Taid the Shocking miss Racket.
“I got up. -- *1 wilh you a good raornihg, miss Montague, I should
54   The I should have been glad, I own, to have Seen miss Nancy, but as
file is engaged -- -- -- -- -- ”
O pray See her, ” replied She. Go, Le Cour, (to her French woman) acquaint miss Nancy I want to Speak with her.”
‘‘ That is, ” Said one of the ladies, bursting into a laugh, “when the colonel has finistied the last ad: of his play.”
“But my dear creatures, ” Said Juliet, tell me what I am to do about my poor pink negligee. Miss Spangle affures me, a Silver fringe is not the thing.”
/ ‘‘ The
History erf miss Harriet nelson. 9^
“The bedchamber door now opened; and a pale, emaciated figure like a ghost, in the person of Nancy, entered dressed in a long, loose kind of French facque, with a most enormous frightful French cap, .almost over her nose.
Good heaven, ” thought I, can this ' be my once dear Nancy, the little angel, who was the perfect; emblem of blooming health, and adorned with every unaffedfed grace
“She made me a low formal cuttfey and Sat down. With her entered
L - Distressed. Virtue;. or. The
, entered a little despicable looking wretch — a, colonel they called' him.
She stigbtlyr inquired after my health, whilst I could hardly refrain from tears at her cold indifference j yet I thought She Sometimes looked on me with a glance of kindness.
V The conversation now became Such a jargon of nonsense and im: - * pertinence, that I could stay no longer.
Juliet gave Nancy a significant look, and after they had whispered, the latter came down with me to
the
  miss' Harriet nelson. 97
the door, when presently I took my leave, I hastened - home to my little lodging, where a violent gush of tears gave vent to my almost bursting heart. — Their cruel, I must call it, the inso lent treatment I had met with, shocked my very Soul.
‘‘ah! Mrs. Montague, ’' cried I, “how blameable have you been in perverting the minds, of two poor young creatures, whose gentle bosoms, till under your pernicious influence, were fraught with every growing virtue! — How is every trace of their gene; vol. IIL E rofity.
9s Distress Virtue; or, The
rofity, humility, piety, obliterated by the Shoclcing effcdls of a false, a French introduction into all the fashionable excesses of this dissipated age! — Ah! my dear Juliet, and Nancy Montague, let me, with a Sigh, recoiled the fond days of your prattling infancy! — but I tremble, I Shudder at your present danger.
“Soon after this miserable visit, my landlady informed me, she had an occasson to use my apartment; but kindly offered to look out for another, which I begged
  99
begged might be the meanest garret stie could find, as I had not, at this wretched period of my life, one guinea left in the world. The horrors of being reduced to want, began now to alarm me; but I was determined to beg in the streets, rather than Solicit my unkind friends in Hanover Square. To be brief, I came to Mrs, Hartly's; and though my health was in a very weak state, I made a shift to procure a few of the common necessaries of life, by the help of my needle.
E 2 One
I
too  j or. The
One night, as I was returning from carrying a little work to a milliner’s, I unfortunately fell down; by which accident, I had the misfortune to break my right arm against the iron palli fades of a gentleman’s house in this street. I was conveyed, however, to my miserable lodging; and a Surgeon was Sent for, who attended me some weeks. This terrible affair, not only deprived me of the means of Supporting myself, but also obliged me to dif pose of, by degrees, great part of my wearing apparel. The diamonds.
histaryos miss harrietnelson..' ic' i diamonds, however, which encircled the dear resemblance of the most beloved of men, if possible,, was determined to keep. Indeed, I was reduced to a very weak and low state, till gracious heaven Sent my dearest child to my relief. Yes! my angelic daughter, thy mother owes the preservation of her life to thy tenderness and pious care.’'
Saying which, stie fondly clasped me in her arms, and for Some moments we Shed tears So exquisitely sweet, that it is out of the power E 3 of
102   The
of words to express our happiness.
See, my child!'' Said this excellent mother, “by what inexplicable methods heaven, in its own good time, brings our most hopeless wishes to perfection!” !”
know my amkble, my noble friend, will Sympathise with her happy Harriet in this most joyful discovery; an account of which I have just wrote, and shall send by the Same post, to my dear and honoured Father.
Adieu, my inuch loved friend.
'This large packet will, I hope, i
afford
  loj
afford Some Small entertainment to her, who, I beg would believe my utmost ambition is, to Subscribe myself, Lady Mary dorman’s,
most obliged, Harriet Nelson..
P. S. Your kdystrip would highly pleased with my amiabk mother. Such dignity in her person Such expression in her countenance! — But you wnll one day See her I hope.
I hear Sir Charles Belmont has left his lodgings in town, and is E 4 gone
104   The
gone to Ireland, to visita large estate he has there. — May he be happy wherever he goes!
Great was the pleasurc of lady Mary Dorman, on receiving the above account : stie even wept with joy : but stie was exceedingly Shocked at the recital the injured Harriet Sent of the manner in which She was dismiffed from Bromley Abbey. As her ladyship was the most generous of women, she instantly sat down, and wrote an affecting letter to P/irs. Bromley, in order to clear her injured friend from the cruel afperfioiis of the wicked Miss Clistbrd.
  teliss Harriet nelson. 105
That vile woman being determined to stop any future alliance that might happen betwixt Sir Charles Belmont and lady Mary Dorman, Soon after that gentleman had arrived in Ireland, wrote him a letter, in which She informed him, lady Mary was married to a young nobleman, lord Castleworth, then at Paris. Sir Charles was deeply astedted with this account; and believing that amiable woman lost to him' for ever, he formed an acquaintance with an agreeable lady near Dublin, of large fortune and merit, and £5 in
ic   The
in a few. months after, he married her.
Lady Mary Dorman having received miss nelson’s letters, among which that young person had given her an account of her discovering her mother; that excellent friend, greatly affected at their distress, instantly Sent her a bank note of one hundred pounds. As her ladyship’s affairs were greatly altered for the better, with regard to her circumstances. She was, enabled to gratify her generous heart in astisting her friend, whom she thought stood in need of her bounty.
I
  107
bounty. A more worthy object of her benevolence than the distressed, and excellent Harriet nelson, could not be found. But that amiable girl, though She gratefully accepted of lady mary’s favour, with a delicacy of mind peculiar to herself, yet her sensations were hurt by it, in thinking it was a larger sum than her fair friend could reasonably spare. She would frequently say to her delighted parent, whilst the tear of filial piety glistened in her eye, “I cannot, madam, bear' the recollection of the kindness of lady E 6 Mary;
io pistrest Virtue; or. The
Mary; it is too powerful, it overcomes me. I have youth, health, our lord’s name be praised for it, and, it is thought by some, ingenuity, which, with industry, will abundantly supply me with the means of Supporting, if not in affluence, in decent competency, my dearest mother.”
O my adored child I” would stie, reply, fondly clasping her to her breast > “My angelic Harriet I What a treasure in thee do I possess!! us retire into some distant part of England : near the seacoast would be most desirable,
as
\
  as there, if near the port where my poor absent husband, will once more Visit his native country, I should, with fond expedfation, watch every returning ship, and by that means I might hear, at least, of Some distant traces of the best of men, and wait in pious resignation for that day, when I humbly trust he may be reunited to me. Blessed hope! Still let me cherish thee! May his dear hands close the eyes of his Louisa!! he receive my last embrace! And though divided as we have been in. life, may one undivided grave contain
iio   The
tain us both in death! — You shall my child, ” continued this excellent woman, “dispose of as many diamonds and rings, for I have them by me, as will sell for fifty pounds; which joined with lady mary’s noble present, will make up a hundred and fifty. With that Sum we will retire into the farthest part of the western coast, near Falmouth in Cornwall, where, in all probability, your dear parent’s ship will be stationed. We will take Some little peaceful retirement, and there, with Sweet content for our companion, will we remain till better days.” -
  miss Harriet nelsom II i
Harriet rejoiced at this Scheme, and having converted into calli the before mentioned uselcts trinkets of her mother’s, which more than amounted to what She had Said, and provided herself with materials for painting of miniatures, in which She greatly excelled, and agreed with a shopkeeper in London, to whom She was to send them when finished, for a stipulated Sum, she, wdth the tenderest, and most amiable of parents, sat out on their journey; on which they met with no unfavourable circumstance whatever,
Mrs.
112   The
Mrs. neison, who had now recovered her health, to which the late joyful discovery, joined with the tender cares of her dutiful Harriet, had not a little contributed; recollected a former acquaintance of hers, at Falmouth, who,, though many years since, perfectly remembered her, and who kindly assisted this worthy parent and tender daughter, in procuring a small but neat habitation, in a little village near that town. Where, for the present, I wstf leave them, in the enjoyment of that sweet.. which must
ever
  it J
ever attend a life of conscious innocence; to take a small revievr of vrhat passed at Bromlej Abbey The excellent owner of it, when she received lady mary’s letter, in which she warmly endeavoured to vindicate the injured, innocent Harriet, was a good deal staggered. Lady Mary could not directly tax Miss Clifford, as she could not positively know of her Scandalous proceedings, yet really believbd her to be at the bottom of all this mischief, and had given some hints of her suspicions. Mrs. Bromley was alarmed, but knew
not
Ii   The
not what to think. She looked on Miss Clifford almost as near perfection as any human being could pofiibly arrive at; a very Saint upon earth, who She imat* gined was So far gone, as she herself Said, towards the joys of heaven, that She would be the last person stie Should suspect of So vile a crime as asperfing., and injuring, an innocejit, helplest young woman. However, she one day barely mentioned to miss Clifford, that she had received a long letter from lady Mary, with a vindication of Mist nelsbnrb
when
 , miss Harriet nelson, ii
when the artful hypocrite, with the most unparalelled assurance, Sof* cunningly carried on her base deceit, that the unsuspedting, and most deceived of women, was ■now, as much as ever, made to believe poor Harriet was guilty.
My good god !” Said the vile Miss Clifford, casting up her eyes, ** what a Scene of perfidy has this bad young woman been engaged in! Poor lady Mary is equally deceived, my good madam, with yourself; or, what is most probable, as She is generous to excess,
, been persuaded to give the vile proceeding this turn.’*
ii   The
Mrs. Bromley Said no more, and thought herself blameable beyond .expression for having once harboured the Shadow of a doubt of her heavenly minded kinswoman. The last hint of Miss Clifford, she thought a very probable one, and gave up Harriet in her opinion for ever. But that gracious being, who makes suffering innocence its tshiefest care, in due time discovered to the good Mrs Bromley the deep hypocrisy of Miss Clifford; and consequently the injury that had been Sustained by the poor hotiet,. who, one evening, after
a day
  miss Harriet neison. i
a day Spent in the Sweets of virtuous industry, received the following letter from her worthy friend, lady Mary Dorman
^ Miss Nelfoii had now been near a year in her happy retirement; during which, many letters had pasted between her noble friend and herself: but they are omitted because they are no way necessary to the thread of the history.
■
LET
lir i)istrest Virtue; or. The
LETTER xixvl
Lady Mary Dorman io Miss Harriet Nelson, Montpellier,
Toy to my Harriet! Joy to my. ^ Sweet friend! for the inexpres.
fible pleasure She will receive on the perusal of the enclosed letter, which, by the last post, I received from Mrs. Bromley, and which I dispatch, on the wings of friend strip, to the most amiable, and injured

jured of women! — O my Harriet, what an amazing! what a joyful detedtion is this! Yes, yes, my dear, I knew that abominable miss Clifford was the vilest of hypocrites. But read, here, Mrs. bromley’s letter, for I have not patience to write another word till you have perused it.
y:
L E T
mo  The'
LETTER XXXVII
Mrs. Bromley to Lady Mary Dorman, Bnemley Abbey.
My dear Friend.
VERY moment that I delay writing, accuses me .of the cruel injury I have done to the innocent, the much wronged Harriet nelson. — O lady Mary, what a Surprising discovery have I to make! -- Just heaven! how have
I been
  III
I been deceived, by that most artful, that vilest of all hypocrites, miss Clifford! I aiti lost in wonder and amazement I
But where, alas! is now my dearest girl? — where may She wander? — Poor, injured innocence! what reparation can now be made her? — O my friend, I cannot recollect any circumstance in my whole life, which ever gave me Such poignant re morse, as my difmifiion of that good, and amiable young woman. Instantly write her a full account of the happy discovery I have made of the most wicked of women; of the cutting affliction. I endure, for having so highly vol. III F though
122  j or. The
though God knows innocently, injured her.
“Tell her of my firm resolve to — but I will write myself, as soon as you acquaint me to what part of the world the dear unhappy | girl is retired to : — how does my heart bleed for the distress She may have Suffered! — But I must hasten to acquaint your ladyship how I came to discover the vile hypocrisy of the wicked wretch, who has So long, and So artfully imposed upon me.
** About eight o’clock, yesterday in the evening, after she had been twice to church, being Sunday, had received the Sacrament, and Spent the day in her closet at her
devo

devotions; vile hypocrite as she is! She told me. She must retire earlier than usual to her closet for that She had Some papers to Settle, and must look over the list of her charitable fund. ' bhe accordingly, at that early hour, took leave of me for the: night. I Supped alone, and about ten, retired to my apartment § where, having busted myself in looking over Some letters, I yet found myself not So much inclined to go to bed, as to read for an hour y a custom your ladyship’s old friend' has long made use of, as it often procures her a good night’s repose. I recollected that I had that day left a book, I had not finished read fa ing.
1^4 jbistrest Virtue; or, The
iflg, on one of the window shats of miss Clifford’^ bedchamber; and believing I Should make less noise in disturbing her, at So late an hour, than my woman, I Softly went to her door, which, to my surprise, I found not quite stiut; it was at least open enough for me to see a light in the room, and to hear, distinctly, miss clifford’s voice, talking to some per fbn in bed with her.
My astonifhment was great; and Jt must be imagined, it was not in my power to resist listening to a, qonverfetion in which I heard my own name mentioned in the most contemptuous manner. Strange thoughts arose in my mind, when I heard
  miss Harriet nclson.
I heard the voice of her companion to be that of a
My dear, ” Said he, “I hope you will never be discovered concerning miss Ilarriet.” —
“Never fear, ” Said the infamous wretch; ‘‘ Mr. Bromley is So crcr dulous, that She puts the greatest constdence. in everything I tell her, even to enthusiasm; though most egregiousty is she deceived I - — My Scheme in getting rid of that girl, will be produ(stive of much good to my future interests and of thine my dear Harry. She cannot live long, and I am determined not to leave her whilst stie is aboveground, She is rich, and F 3 I can
ii pistrest Virtue; or. The
I can easily humour her foibles for a few years.”
‘‘ I had not patience to hear any more. — Guess ray amazement! But how was it increased, when upon entering her apartment, for I was determined immediately to confront her; I discovered, for the curtains were open, her paramour to be no other than my pos tilion Harry, whom your ladyship has Seen, a young fellow about •twenty I
“Vile woman, ” said I, “have i, at last, detected thee, thou wretch“
“gave a Scream, .- — The fel low instantly jumped out of bed, and gathering up his clothes, made;. ■, his
  lay
his escape from the house as expeditiously as he could.
Wicked, abominable hypocrite, ” continued I, depart from, my dwelling by break of day, and nevermore dare to show your infamous head. You shall be ex posed to all the world; to every worthy family, who, alas! have, been as fashlly deceived as myself. As to the poor, injured Harriet, the distress you have, undoubtedly, brought on that good and innocent young woman, shall be rewarded with every advantage that my affection or fortune can procure.”
“She had the astonishing rance to begin vindicating lumehi
F 4 Vile, -
IS   The
“Vile, detestable wretch, ^’ Said T, “be filent' -- -! renounce thee for ever! — ’■ Saying which, I lest the room, in a Situation of mind no words can express. I ordered Mrs. Bullcn to attend her; and about five o’clock this morning at v>ihich hour the day began to break, she walked to the next village, where, since I have been informed. She procured a post chaife.
** I have not yet recovered the agitation this amazing affair has thrown me into— — my heart, my dearest friend : tell me, where is my Harriet, the poor Suffering girl
I ani extremely Sorry to find lord
  ^ xfu)
lord B — ’s bad state o health requires the journey you mention to the waters at Barege : Such a character as his lordship’s, in this degenerate age, must make every onf: interested for his welfare.
Adieu, my dearest lady Mary, believe me, most Sincerely,
Your faithful Friend, and obedient Servant, Annabel L A Brgmle vc
F 5 P. S.
, ijo   The
** P. S. Where the vile creature — (what appellation can be bad enough for this wicked woman?) picked up her intelligence, concerning your ladyship’s marriage with lord Castleworth, I cannot conceive. I believed it, however, till your ladyship’s last letter arrived; and now imagine it to be an entire falsity, .calculated for fdme base purpofe.'’
t^ady Mary. ^ [/« Continuation
You have now, my dearest Harriet, perused Mrs. bromley’s Setter. I know what her ge..
  miss'harriet Nelson. oji
nerous heart must feel, at the bare apprehension of any distress.. may have Suffered or may still Suffer..
Did you ever hear of Such an impudent wretch as this miss Clifford? Good Heaven! I thank thee for this wonderful discovery of my harriet’s innocence!
How peaceful must the hohrs of my Sweet friend glide on! How ardently do I long to be acquainted with your most amiable parent, your tender mother! Nothing, certainly, can be wanting to com pleat your happiness in this life, but the arrival of your excellent father. I own, with you, I‘ am a little Surprised that he is not ar F 6 rived.
  The
tived. You say you have wrote to Mr. Morgan, in wales, and that he has acquainted you Mr. imelson left Leghorn above half a year ago. Possibly, by this time, he may be now returned. What must be his transport to find his lamented, his lost louisa, restored to him, by the most dutiful, and tender daughter that ever existed I Send me, my Harriet, a few of your little mi aiiature pictures, which I will dispose of among my friends at this place. We are going, a large party of us, to Barege; my poor uncle being advised by his phyfieians to try those healing waters.
Sir
  Miss Harriet neison. 13^
Sir Charles Belmont is married : and yet you, Harriet,, would have persuaded me, that the poor man would break his heart for my sake. Believe me, my dear, this passion of love is to be conquered. People tot often give way to its impulse, from an opinion that it is irresistible, Fatal mistake! indulged only by weakness, and nursed by indolence!
Adieu, my beloved, my excellent friend. How do I, im mersed as I am in a round of folly and dissipation, which my good uncle obliges me ta partake of) Sigh, for the sweet, peaceful pleasures we once enjoyed at Llandwelly!
i3'4  i or, The
Llandwelly! I almost envy you your present Solitude : a moonlight walk, on the Sea sho re, listening to the gentle dasbing of the distant waves, must be a refined delight to a mind So fond of contemplation as is my lovely friend’^s.
Let me have the inexprellible pleasure of a letter, by every opportunity, and believe me, with the utmost astedion.
Ever yours, Mary Dorman.
  13^
As Lady Mary, as Soon as She pofiibly could, wrote a long letter to Mrs. Bromley, giving her d full account of the present situation and admirable conduct of her amiable friend; of her virtuous industry, and the Sweet delight stie enjoyed, in having recovered the inestimable pleasure of the Society of her tender parent, whom stie Supported, if not in astiuence, at least with every nccestary of life; it must be imagined, the good Mrs. Bromley delayed not a moment, to write a. letter to Miss Nelson' ' with’ the warmest astiirances of the sincerest affection, and every exprestion; which could testify her extreme ^ Sorrow
  The
forraw for the step She had unavoidably taken, through the deep deception of the vile Miss Clifford.. She besides earnestly entreated the good Harriet to return with her excellent mother to Bromley Abbey, to Spend the reraainder of their days or if that proposal was not approved of by Mrs. Nelson, on account of Mr. Nelfon’5 expected return. She iniisted on remitting them a yearly allowance, and enclosed a bank note of a hundred pounds for their present use.
Many letters pasted between these worthy friends, for near' tiiree years; but as nothingctemarkable happened during that period, excepting, that Mr. nelsbn, to the ' astonish
  13^
astonishment and grief of his louisa, and Harriet, was not yet arrived; and that lady Mary Dorman, who still resided with her good uncle abroad, had been per suaded to give her hand to lord Cleveland, a most worthy young nobleman, who had been the preceding Summer at Montpelier; I shall not insert the various number of letters which pasted betwixt these accomplished ladies; as congratulatory epistles, on lady cleveland’s nuptials, may be eastly imagined to be very frequent and sincere from the amiable Harriet. In about six months after, she wrote the following letter to her noble friend'
'E T
Distressed Virtile; or. The
LETTER XXXVIII
Miss Harriet Nelson tn Lady Mary Cleveland..
A S my dearest lady Cleveland jcjl allows me the kind induu gence of a frequent intercourse of letters, permit me, my charming friend, to unburthen my oppressed mind, in relation to the grief I hr hour under, to see thelsslerit de jetstion of my astlidfed mather, on account of no news yet being arrived of my ppor father. — Where, alas! can he now wander } doubtless,, is still in Search of the ' / most
  miss Harriet nelsbm i
most amiable wife that ever existed! Gracious Heaven, protecft and Sliield him from every danger!
-- -- Am I not impious, in even
doubting that Superior power, who will one day, I humbly trust, restore him as miraculoussy to my fond arms, aa was my dearest mother!
How generously noble in lord Cleveland, to make the inquiry concerning this beloved parent, which your ladyship kindly affures me has been repeatedly done!
My ever revered Mrs. Bromley has acquainted me of her intention of visiting US' in our happy retirec ment, the beginning of this summer. What a refined delight do I enjoy
140   The
I enjoy in the Sweet refiectiun, that I am now again restored to the dear friendship of that excellent woman! believing what She, was made to do, by the most infamous of wretches, it was impossible for her not to ast as stie did, to the
then distrested Harriet_________but I
must hasten to acquaint my charming friend with a little adventure I met with about a fortnight ago.
As I was strolling one evening, in this sweet month of April, in a little wood near our habitation, my dear mother being gone to take her usual walk on the Sea Beach, where stie Spends many a fblitary hour, I found a little girl, about three years old, beautiful as a cher rubim.
  341
rubim, sitting at the foot of a tree; She was singing, and picking some violets She had in her lap. As I thought it an odd circumstance to find her there alone, and as I had never seen her in any of the neighbouring cottages, with all which I am well acquainted, I instantly ashed her, ** Whose pretty little girl are you my dear? what is your name, and where is your mother i” “Indeed, ’’ said the lovely innocent, my name is Eliza, and I did live in a fine house, a great, great way off. My mammy nurse, cried Sadly, when the naughty black gipsies carried me away, ancl. they bound her, and beat her, and told me I Should have Sugar and straw*
14-2 Distressed yirtue; or. The
strawberries, and they would love me dearly; but since they very often pinch me, and make me cry, and Sometimes, to quiet me, they carry me at their backs. My fine white frock thfey have taken away, and pul me on this dirty gown.”
** And where, my pretty dear, ’* Said I, '‘ are these gipsies now, that you are left alone ?”
“Gone upon the common, ’* faidshe, “to steal Something; ” but, taking me by the hand; “I will go and live with you, : ?tnd you Shall be my own mamma, and I will love you dearly — indeed I will.”
I must confess what the Sweet innocent Said, wonderfully excited both my attention and compassion.
It
  14^-
It appeared to me most probable that she was the child of Some per son of consequence, and had been kidnapp’d, as it is called, by those vile|vagrants styled gipsies. I was, in short, seized with*a Sudden kind of impulse, for which I cannot account, to carry her home with me. It instantly occurred to my mind, that I might, in all probability. Save the life of this poor little wretch; who, Springing to my arms, and fondly clasping me round my neck, again begged I would take her with me. It was impossible to resist Such moving innocence : I therefore, with this lovely child in my arms, fet out as fast as I could for my own habitation.
144 Dilirest Virtue; or. The
tion, which happily was but at a very little distance: however, I rather flew, than walked home, as 1 was under terrible apprehensions every moment of being overtaken by those gang of thieves who, doubtless, would have had a Severe revenge for my carrying away the child,
I found my dear mother at home, and informed her I had made a small addition to our family. he was extremely pleased with what J had done, and equally delighted and surprised with the beauty of the pretty little Eliza, Never, fnrely, was there fa engaging a prattler! What, my dear kdy Cleveland, must b the L piercing
,   miss Hsirriet Nelson. x45
piercing affliction of the parents of this amiable child ■! what their heartfelt anguish! May heaven, by Some means,, permit me to restore the dear girl to their longing arms, and 1 Shall he happy. I have dressed her very prettily. She is almost ever singing and dancing, after her fastiion, and is in short. So very amusing, that I every day grow more and more fond of my acquisition; ■; as I find her innocent prattle calls off, in some measure, the deep melancholy into which my poor mother is too unhappily overwhelmed.
How often does she Starting cry,
'Hark, Harriet! did you not vol. III C heai‘
1
146 .Distressed v4rtue; or. The'
hear your father’s voice? — See, my child, if he .be not entering at the door?”
Heaven restore him soon to our longing sight, for this suspense is .dreadful.
. This little prating Eliza tells me a great deal about a fine hoiise She had lived in, but I cannot learn her other name; neither can I understand the half of what she prattles about.
Could it be chance which directed my steps to the place, where I found this little helpless inno i'cent? no : it was that providence, .who, I am persuaded, directs and guides our every smallest, and, to our weak Tight, most inconsiderable

.Distory of miss Harriet Nelson, 14^7
able action: a proof of which is plainly Seen in our greatest mo tnentous affairs; arising, as it appears to us, from the most trivial cause. Heaven does not estimate circumstances according to our narrow conception. — But, why do I presume to moralise to my philosophic friend?
I have just painted a little miniature picture of this amiable child, which I enclose in this packet, and beg your ladyship to accept: it will do to Set in a Snuff box, or for a Small bracelet.
My mother, as well as myself, most ardently longs for that day, when my dearest lady Cleveland g2 will
?i4-8 distrest Virtue; or, The
will again visit her native land, and make all happy, who once were honoured with her acquaintance; particularly So will then he her ladyfliip’s
Most affectionate, and devoted,
Harriet Nelson.
LETTER XXXIX
Lady Cleveland, to Miss Harriet Nelson.
Montpelier,
IW A S infinitely pleased with my ever amiable harriet’s account of her little foundling. In all probability, (he is the daughter
of
Histbry of miss Harriet Nelson. 14^?
of Some person above the Vulgar.
Mrs. Bromley tells me. She intends Spending Some months in your Sweet retirement this Summer: perhaps She may, by this; time, be with you. I have also the inexpressible pleasurc of informing my beloved friend, that my good uncle talks of visiting England very Shortly; which makes lord Cleveland and my -- Self extremely happy, as we have many affairs to fettfe. What an Qxquifite pleasure Shall I. enjoy in once more being united to my excellent Harriet! The first thing". I shall db; will be to Set out for Cornwall, and to visit the Sweet retreat of my dearest friend— — g How
• ■
jo.. Virtues or. The '
How do I long to be actjuainted with your tender, your amiable mother!,
. jmifs Tucy Rivers has at last given her hand to Sir James more worth, after having been as cruel as a tygress for the Space of three: years. She is, however, a charming woman, and poffeites every refinement both of temper and undershanding.' She now chiefly resides at that fine old seat called the priory; .which her good aunt, who is lately dead, has left her, and where She would rejoice to see. my Harriet.
Who do you think, my Sweet friend, is now at Montpelier? — Sir Charles Belmont. His wife;
V.... '
of mlss Harriet neison.
Mas been dead near a twelvemonth. He appears the very picture of filent woe, having, besides the loss of his lady, who I hear was a very amiable woman. Sustained lately Some aether great misfortune; but what that is I have not heard. He frequently visits us. As lord cleveland is I find, an intimate acquaintance of Sir, Charles Belmont, he makes one in all our parties. It is impost!ble, my dear Harriet, for any man to express hinaself with more contisttion, I must call it, and repentance, than does this worthy man, for the cruel, the barbarous manner, he will style it foin which, he Says, he treated the most amiable G 4, woman
j52 Distress Virtue; or, The
vroman upon earth — alluding to his unkind answer of your letter — but he Says, that wicked hypocrite, miss. Clifford, was the cause of his being guilty of that shocking ingratitude.
Good heaven! how does he execrate that vile woman! — But I Suffer him to dwell as little as I can on the Subject: and indeed, he is too delicate (as I am now married to a good, and very amia ble man) to do otherwise— — my word, Harriet, he Speaks of you in such terms, that know not what to think of the matter. Sweet, injured, excellence, and angel upon earth, are the common epithets with which Sir Charles mentions
  miss harriecnelfon. 153"
mentions you. What his presenf. astiidtion can be, 1 cannot conceive; and you must imagine, I would: -■ not willingly give him pain, by making any inquiries,. He affected' me a good deal this morning, when lie happened accidentally to' take up a Snuff box, in the lid of which I had fixed the little miniature picture, you Sent me, of the lovely little girl you mention. He opened the box, and starting, looked at the resemblance with much attention; and, I thought, concern. Certain I am, I Saw a tear stealing*dov/n his cheek.
Will you part v/ith'this box, : kdy Cleveland ?■’
Yes, Sir Charles, if you G 5 will
154   The
will please to accept of it.” After once more Surveying the picture with st deep sigh, he put it in his pocket. Seeing him So extremely affected, I Said not a word to him, where or how I came by; it; but, afterwards, I could not help asking lord Cleveland, if Sir Charles had any children, by his marriage. He told me, he believed he had not, as lady Belmont had been remarkably unhealthy, and Sir Charles had never mentioned her having any. — Why .then, Harriet, was he So deeply affected at the sight of the miniature pidfure of this child?
This, moment I have a letter from j Mrs., Bromley, who tells me she is
unavoid
  155
unavoidably prevented from visiting you this Summer. — We are all of us indefatigable in our inquiries, concerning the excellent Mr. Nelson • grant you may by this time have heard Some tidings of him! — This is the most predominant wisti of, my dearesh Harriet,.
Your ever faithful,
Mary■ Cleveland. - •
P. S. My dear lord is just now returned from my uncle, to inform me, that they have fixed a month hence for our return to.england.. — O my Harriet, how inexpresti ■ bly happy has this intelligence made me! Sir Charles does not G 6 return
ij6 distrest Virtue i or. The
return with us, by the way of Paris, but is going with Some friends to Bordeaux, from whence he proposes, by the first Ship, fiiii ing to England. He begs me to say a thousand kind things in his favour; to testify - his unbounded friendship for you, repentance, and So forth. I tell him he had better plead his own cause himself and I am much mistaken if he does not implore your pardon on his knees the very next time he sees you, which I prophecy will not belong. Adieu, once more, my amiable friend..
1
j
i
i!', ■ ■. r t E T
0
  miss Harriet ndson. ikf'
LETTER XU
Lady Mary Claveland iomifi Harriet Nelson..
London
At length, my beloved Harriet, we are Safely arrived in; England. I am now preparing to> set out for. lord cleveland’s Seat, from; whence I shall visit lady? Moreworth and Mrs. Bromley but So impatient am I to embrace my Sweet girl, and to be acquainted with her excellent parent, that I shall stay but a Short time, at present, with either of those dear friends. In. about one months there
___%___________________________
158"   The
therefore,, expect lord Cleveland and myself at your cottage, as you; call it.. Our attendants we fhall t^nd to Falmouth. The little green room, which you deferibe as commanding So beautiful and extensive a prospect; of the fear shall, 1 give you notice, take pof feshon of myself. Prepare to love my excellent lord...
O, Harriet, how exquisite is the pleasure of meeting, after So long an absence I and how Sweet are those of friendship, when inspired by merit, and ac cornpanied by virtue! — Can the gross fenfualist experience, in his utmost transports, the gratifications Gif the mind, the delightfulfenfa.. tions

tions we fiiall enjoy? When thati happy moment arrives, I Shall have the extreme pleasure of assuring you, in person, how sincerely I am, my dear Harriet,
Your affedionatc,
Mary Cleveland..
LETTER XLL Lady Cleveland to Lady Moreworth.
south green, Cornwall,
After the most, delightful ramble, my dear Lucy, through Some of the finest coun • st,. ties
VK(A Distress virtuet or, Tste
ties in England, and in the most beautisul Season of the year, we arrived yesterday at this Sweet Spot,, the abode, of innocence and industry. Harriet is, if possible, more lovely than ever. Mrs. nelfon is, without exception, the most amte able of women; Even at this time her person may be called fine;; and her countenance is the most exprefiive I ever beheld : then her address, her understanding, render her as agreeable, and as instructive' a companion as I ever was acquainted with..
I am charmed with their cottage, which coi^imands a fine view' of the sea; and stands in the midst of a little garden, which is quite.
a wir
  tsa.
a wilderness of Sweets. On our arrival, Harriet stood at the entrance of it with the smiling little Eliza in her hand; who is as beauteous as ijnagination can form. It is very strange, but both lord Cleveland and inyfelf, cannot help entertaining a Suspicion of thig. child being a daughter of Some person of distinction; and even fancy we have Seen a face which resembles hers. — But time must unravel this. — It is pleasing to see the tender care and attention with which Harriet treats the poor little innocent.
Not any tidings have yet been had of Mr. Nelson— —! — It is easy to see his afflicted wife
Suffer
XK^   The
Suffers the most painful anxiety im the cruel suspense She is under; but we never mention his name before her. — Harriet has just been weeping to me about, the melancholy circumstance of her lost father; who, She supposes, as indeed I do myself, is now no more.
‘ Adieu, my beloved friend. The little prattling Eliza stands at my elbow, and prevents me, as my lord is now playing with her, from adding any more at present, than: that I am, my lucy’s ' Most .faithful,
and assess: ionate,
Mary Cleveland:
:
Iffist'bry of miss Harriet nelson.
'Lady cleveland. £/« Continuation
^ I AM just returned from, a Sweet' ramble among the rocks on the Southeast beach,, where we have been picking Shells and, seaweeds under the eliffs. — But my lord Sends form ypon his receiving Some letters What cait they be? -- -! hope my poor uncle is not dead 1
O, Lucy,;! am almost breathless with joy. Surprise, and astonishment !^ — Gracious heaven! But read the enclosed letter from Sir Charles Belmont to lord Cleve -- land.
^4   The
Iendmif^
My dear lordji
I HAVE most Surprising news to unfold, which I dispatch by a jfpecial messenger.
On my arrival in town, I went immediately to your lordihip’s house in Hanover square; but bearing my dear friend was now in Cornwall, I could not delay am hour the happy intelligence I have, to communicate.
During my stay at Bordeaux,. I frequently, with my friends,, visited Several Ships which lay in that port.. Captain Campley,. whom your lordihip is well ac q^uainted with,, knowing my extreme
  1^5
treme curiosity, to See the disferent branches of the wonderful art of navigation, informed me, I might amply gratify it, if I would go with him a few leagues to the mouth of the bay near Bordeaux:, where he could easily procure me an opportunity of going on board a fallee rover, which was just arrived from Barbary, and was Shortly to sail for the West-indies. With great pleasure I accepted his proposal, and we made a party, and Set out the following day.
A young Spanish nobleman, who was with us. Sent a Servant With his compliments to the master of the Sallee vessel, with whom he had formerly been acquainted, and
we
♦
IB6 .  The
we were not only admitted on board, but also met with very civil treatment.
The pleasure I received, was, however, extremely damped, by feeing above thirty Slaves on board, who were going to be conveyed to the West-indies : wretches who had long been languistiing in a dreadful captivity Jn Barbary, among the Moors They were all chained. My compastion was greatly excited on the occasion;; I was particularly struck with one of them who had the deepest sorrow impressed upon his countenance. He was advanced in years, .and appeared quite emaciated with ipain, and cruel treatment. I Spoke
t
y
  167
to him in English, as hve appeared to be a native of Great Britain, I was Seized with an impulse, for which I cannot account, to ash him a few questions; but, good heaven! what was my astonishment, when, in relating his story, he told me his darling, his only child, he had left under the protection of afady Mary Dorman! And that his name was Nelson !- — short, I found he was the long lamented, long expected, and most worthy father of the lovely Harriet nelsbn. Guess, my lord, my joy, ipy astonishment I I ran, I rather stew into his arms. As I was an abfo istte stranger to his person, he must, doubtless, have thought me Tran tic. * ‘0
, Distress Virtue; or. The
O my good Sir, ” Said I, you know not how much I am interested in this amazing disco very: I am intimately acquainted with your charming daughter; with lady Mary Dorman; Mrs. Bromley; with your family; and with your connexions.” In brief, I even went sofar as to acquaint him that his lost Louisa, his lamented wife, was well, and waiting to be reunited to him with the fondest impatience.
The good man wept aloud: he clasped me in his arms, in a kind ■of speechless ecstasy— —!
O, my God, this, this is too much!” and fell senseless on the fioor.
When he recovered I applied
to
' is
to the nlaster of the Haves, and demanded the price of his ransom, This affair being Settled, with my own hands I released him of his galling chains, and heavy fetters.
“O my guardian angel, ” he was pleased to style me, what language can be found to express my boundless gratitude! — i my wonder !”
But your lordstlip will easily imagine his transport, and my extreme Satisfaction, in having released this worthy man from a four years cruel stavery. Irt fine, (for I must leave all par ‘ ticlilars, till I have the inex* prestible happiness of meeting vol. in, H ’ your
iyo . j or, The
your lordsliip) I carried off, to our vessel, my precious charge, and in a few days after embarked for England.
It is as impossible for me to express the refined delight this incident has given me, as it is for me to give my dear friend an idea of the unaffected piety, admirable understanding, and polite learning of the excellent man I have been so happy to Save, and Serve. That he is the father of the much wronged Harriet ncl fon, the dear girl, whom I greatly injured, in believing her culpable, (so fatally was I missed 1) is an ' additional reffeclion to my happiness.
As.
  171
As lady Cleveland's tenderness for her charming friend is extreme, and the unhappy fate of her father whom She has So often deplored, it will point out to her, the best way to break this joyful event to both her and her poor mother.
I propose Setting out for Cornwall the latter end of the week, of which I have taken the earliest opportunity to inform your lordship, that the unexpetsted sight of Mr. nelson might not occasion too alarming a furprise.
Adieu, my dear Lord. 1 am, with an hundred loves, and compliments.
Most affectionately, yours, cllarles beleont, Ha
fi Dlstr# Virtue I Th
lady Clevdand, lln Contmuatm, }
WHAT traffspgrting tltlihgi ei thi§ ktttr pf Chartes's Impart! and with what e^quifite delight have my god Ipr4 mi I bggn difelpflssg th joyfish th iitatie northwest tg thg g^ggltesst Mri Nilfpiij ind h dgar Hamel I Thtyi thfh 1st
fiiift imphiili kstgua|§i ihastked th ffsat Mihpf fast |@pdi fer thi§ wistitifsth, Aii
if i }ffip©fliw§ for w©rii m iippift ihi'ftiwff w al ' prtfistl istj©y^ I will M F mi m iifcflbi III
Histbfy of Mill Marriet Ndflfl* J
1 fancy Sir Charles has more reasons than om for coming down with Mr nctson to usi Do you mti my dear Luoy> in his letter dbferve the particular Might he expresses in having done So Sihgu* a Service to the father oi Mar riet^ I tell her that I begin to prognosticate another very joyful event. ** Dear lady Cleveland, ’* Says the Sweet, blushing girl, “how can you talk So.? I must eonfess this generous this noble action of Sir Charles raises my opinion of him, almost to adoration. — But, ah! lady Cleveland, Seek not to excite in your Harriet thoughts Southeast presumptuous; and which, if H 3 in
174   The
indulged, caii only end in disappointment.’*
But, notwithstanding what the dear girl Says, I Shall not be at all Surprised, Lucy, is what I have hinted. Should really happen; for he has exprested himself, whenever we have been talking of her, in Such high, Such rapturous terms, that nothing but Dw could dictate; though he affects to call it friend -- foip. And even that, where the Sexes are concerned, you know, ‘dis Sister to love.”
As we Seem to be at present, and arc like to continue Some time longer in a most critical Situation, I Shall write again as fully, and as Speedily
  175
speedily as possible, to my ever dearest Lucy, and beg stie will believe me, when I affufe her,
lam ever hers,
Mary Cleveland.
LETTER XLIU Lady Cleveland to Lady Moreworth.
South Green, Cornwall.
WE are here all joy and transport. ^ For my part, I So sincerely Sympathise in the happiness of these excellent peo* H 4 pie.
*76 Bistrest Virtue or. The
pie, that I am half out of my wits. I give you. notice that my letter will be very incoherent., I have Such an inter jesting affair to relate! — Good heaven’s! how wonderful, how amazing are thy decrees! Sir Charles Belmont ( — Ah, Lucy, imagine his transport) — is father to the sweet little Eliza. It was I find, a mistake of my good lord’s, in Saying he believed he near had any child; for it seems, above three years ago,, his amiable wife presented him with this sweet girl; who, during his absence in the South of France, was stolen from its nurse, by a gang of gipsies— — I must
lead
  mss Harriet nelson. 177-
lead to this disgovery in form and order
You will imagine, from what I have Said, Mr. nelson and Sir Charles are aitfvdd : ye. my
Lucy! yesterday restored to the excellent Mrs. Nelson, her dear,, transported husband!!. Surely, was So affedlistg a Scene I louisa fainted in his arms,, in which She, was, for Some moments,, locked in a kind of Sacred trans sport.. Harriet, claspinghis knees,, and crying — “0> my dearest sa there! this, — this is too much.” -^ “Gracious Heaven Support me to bear it!”
“O my angelic child, ” he cried, thou heavenly Support of thy H 5 father’s
lys  5 or, The
father’s age, of thy mother’s life — for ah! Sir Charles has told me all! — But have you thanked my noble deliverer ?”
“O no, ” said she, running wildly, and falling at Sir Charles belmont’s feet, ** here will I kneel, here will I vow an eternal gratitude!” — At the Same time bursting into tears of joy — “O Sir Charles! and was it to your beneficence I am indebted for my dear, my ever honoured father ?”
Sir Charles could not stand this, but railing her, he clasped her to his breast, with an energy which appeared to be excited by a stronger pastion than as he calls
it.
** O miss

“O miss ncison, ” he cried, I ought to kneel to you. Can you forgive my unparalelled cruelty my barbarous treatment of the most injured, most amiable of women .f To abandon the lovely, dif trested Harriet nelson! — But if the fmeerest repentance; if —
She stopped him Short, and would not Suffer him to proceed.
But as it is beyond the power of any language to express the sensations, the refined delight of those. happy and delicate minds, I will not injure the affecting, the heartfelt fubje(st, by attempting to describe, what is beyond the power of all description. For my own part, I wept most plentifully.
h6 — What
I So Distrcst Virtue; or. The
— What a heart must I have had,, not to be deeply affected with Such a Scene I
I will now endeavour to give you Some account of the happy discovery Sir Gharles made of his little Eliza, who, I should tell you, was that day Sent to a friend’s^ housc in the village, as we imagined the arrival of Mr. Nelson would claim too much the attention of every individual in the happy little family, to have any to bestow on the poor foundling.
As we were Sitting after dinner, 1 could not help remarking, that 1 believed there was not, at that moment, to be found, in the
whole
  Miss Harriet nelspn.
whole world, six people So Supremely happy as were then as fembled together : and, ” added
I, “the dishress which you,, my good Mr. and Mrs.' nelson and Harriet have experienced, renders your present delight still more exquisite— — Charles, (my Lucy, )' sighed and hung his head.
Yes, ” Said he, Shady Cleveland, this is indeed a day of general joya day in which I ought, and will forget, a late most unhappy affair which has happened in my family, since my leaving England, But why should I Sadden the hearts of these, my dear, my excellent friends, with the cruel repetition of it ?”
Wc
i82  ; or. The
We all begged to hear, if the recital would not give him pain, an account of this incident, whatever it might be, that we might Share his. grief, if we could not remove it. — He then began Satisfying our curiosity in the manner following.
** If you remember, lady Cleveland, I was particularly struck with a picture of a beautiful child, in a little box you Showed me. — How your ladyship came by it I know not; but I will wear the dear resemblance iir my bosom to my dying day.”
Saying this he took from his breast the picture of his little Eliza. I thought Harriet would have fainted.
  isj
fainted, but I gave her a significant look, to hear the end of this interesting story, which Sir Charles continued thus, without observing Miss nelson’s emotion.
‘‘ This is the exact resemblance of a lovely little girl, about three years old, my only child, who, about five months ago, I am informed by my Servants at Belmont Castle, for I was then at Paris, as her nurse was walking at Some distance from the park one evening, was stolen from her, by a gang of those wicked vagabonds, called Gipsies j who, after beating and abusing the poor woman, left her near dead, and escaped with their precious charge. — O < gracious
184   The
gracious heaven! Shall I never more Sec my Sweet, my dearest Eliza? the little prattling innocent
Here the power of nature hindered him from, proceeding any farther, when Harriet Suddenly arpse and left the room; but in a few minutes, to my great relief,, returned rushing into the parlour, with the rosy little Eliza in her hand.
I restore to you. Sir Charles, your lost, your lamented child. — You have this day given me a parent — In return heaven has enabled me to present to you your only daughter, your engaging beautiful Eliza.”
Sir
  miss Harriet Neilbn.
Sir Charles, in an extasy not to be described, Snatched his dear child to his breast, who, fondly clinging round his neck, cried, you are my own papa, indeed.’*
All bountiful God, ” Said the enraptured Sir Charles, ^ what ia the meaning of all this f say, my angelic Harriet, where, when, and how you found my little darling? — » O tell me? See, ladies, ” continued he, baring her little arm, “the mark of a strawberry — I should have known my Eliza in any part of the globe.”
O Lucy, how affecting to us all,, was this moving I this delightful Scene!
Harriet,, as particularly as sh was
t Distress Virtue r or. The
was able, gave her noble friend an account of the manner of her finding, in the wood, the sweet little Wanderer, of the inexpressible pleasure her prattling infancy had given her, and of her preferit excessive joy, in restoring her to his fond arms.
Sir Charles's heart, during the, affecting recital, seemed bursting with gratitude, joy, and (I must add) love — He surveyed Harriet, ' while .She was speaking, as if She had been some superior being. The sweet Eliza ran to her, crying. This is my own good mamma, and I love her dearly, and will always live with her — Shall I,, papa?" ^ '
Never
  187
Never did I See Such a look as Sir Charles gave Harriet at that moment! — Think, my Lucy, and participate of the extreme, I might almost say perfect, happiness, which now reigns at this Sweet retirement, called south green. I leave your enlarged heart to imagine it, as it is far beyond my power to describe. While we are going to walk in the wood, where Harriet found Eliza.
* * * ^ ^ ^
For these last five days we have been rambling about to inspect the various beauties of this fine country, variegated with the most beautiful Scenes of wood and Sea. O,
Lucy,
isa.  . The
Lucy, what a refined delight is it to behold the most amiable of wo * men, Mrs'. Nelfoira*: leamfig on the arm of her delighted husband 1 To see Sir Charles an. Harriet leading the engaging At
other times to see that lovely child alternately, clinging round the neck of each !- — Harriet must — I am Sure stie will, Lucy, be lady Belmont.
We are just returned from a little grove near the house, in which Harriet has caused a few benches' to be placed under Some old oaks, and under whose shade we have all been litting, whilst Mr. nelsoii has been given us an account of his affecting adventures, since his departure
  189
parturc from Le; horn, which I will give my Lucy in his own words, as nearly as I can remember.
The obliging desire my noble friends express, of being acquainted with what I Suffered, till rescued by the moil generous of men,, compels me to enter more particularly on the Subject than what I have yet doncv Stnce my happy arrival.
After having fettled my good young ward, Mr. Morgan, with a very eminent and worthy merchant, ^ and Spent upwards of a twelvemonth in vain and frultlefs inquiries after my dearest, my longdost louisa, gr Mr, Frampton, an English gen tkrnani who redded there, proposed
190 Distress; Virtue j or. The
posed our visiting Some ports in the Mediterranean, where he informed me it was very probable I might be more fuccessful than I had hitherto been. I eagerly embraced his proposai, intending to return in a few months to Leghorn.
This good friend accompanied me in my expedition. We had not been at sea above a fortnight, when a dreadful storm arose, and after being in very imminent danger for three days and nights, we were Shipwrecked on the coast of Barbary. We were instantly Seized on, and Mr. Frampton, my generous friend, alas I in defending me from the gang of wretches, who were dragging us to the stave master,
  191
master, received a mortal wound, and expired in my arms j b^ggi^^g with his latest breath, I would forgive him, for having induced me ever to leave Leghorn. He feared my fate would be extremely stretched, and only wished he could have lived to have shared it with me.
Generous, best of fiends! a tear must force its way at his melancholy fate!
Without regarding m’y cries and entreaties not to leave his unburied body, weltering in blood, these cruel wretches dragged me to the stave master j who, on the representation of the defence I had made with my unhappy friend, caused
me
  bt, The me to be loaden with, heavy chains and to dig in a mine for the Space of six months.,
My misery Was extreme -- My weak arms could not Support the heavy and intolerable burdens I was made to carry; which, on failing to do I was whipped with a rod of iron My feet were — — -‘‘ O, Sir” cried the tender Harriet,.. forbear*’ ’
My dearest husband” ” claimed the weeping Louisa ** it for, my sake thy Sufferings were So exquisite?” ?”
me, my love, ” the worthy man continued ** Saddening our present felicity with the horrid recital: but I will be brief ** lin s
  193
“I lingered on for six months, in this miserable manner, for living it could not be called j when providence inspired a fellow stave, with whom I had contra€led a kind of melancholy friendship in our wretched captivity, with a resolution to make his escape, which he communicated to me; and I, knowing no change of condition I could make would be for the Worse, proposed accompanying him.
We accordingly, one moonlight night, when our guard was asteep, with unwearied pains, and immense labour, loosened each other’s chains 5 and Heaven befriending us, we got off undif vox. III I covered.
1^4' C   dr. The
(jovered; and, rnade the best of oiis way to. the ruountains; where, though We were alrnost Scorched to death by the excefiive heat; and hilferecj " the; extrernes ' of thirst, and .hunger, yet we en .joyedvhere,, amidst the burning Sands,, the Sweets’ of liberty.
, ‘f: Many 'months vve led this kind of wandering life; hiding ourselves hyjday imqaves, and holes; in the rocks;, from, a well grounded fear of thofedefperategangsof wretqhesj the Arab moors; and steeping by iiight in trees, to avoist being, devoured by wild beasts, whopa w’e could hear howling most terriblyi.
“In this Solitude; I often, however, was comforted, with sweet ■stumbers.
History osmiss Harriet neison. 195^
finmshers'^ unknown |>erliap§ to beds of down, or rooms of state. I often, in imagination,, conversed: with my loilisa! with my Harriet! who fi equently appeared to me, with angelic sweetness and bade me be comforted, for all was hastening to be well.
But I Soon met with a cruel misfortune. My poor faithful companion who had escaped with me, went out one morning in Search of: food; in vain I Saf on the mountain’s brow, expedling his return; in vaiuj were my longing eyes directed to the road he was to past : the poor ‘ wfetchy I imagine, was reither torn to pieces, by. fofhe wild. beast, ' ori 2 in
1^6  i Qfi The
in all probability, Seized by those cruel barbarians, I have already mentioned. The horror that poftefted my mind, in being left alone, is inconceiveable, and words are too weak to describe my distress on this affecting incident..
“Poor, lost Domingo! we had groaned together in captivity, we had tasted the Sweets of Such a liberty, as sthose barren wilds afforded, we had endured the Sultry day, astuaged our thirst at the same brook j and one tree, each night, afforded us a Secure shelter— — vain were lamentations! he was to me, no more,. Tor I, alas 1 never Saw him after.
I re
History ps miss Harriet nelson. 597
I remained there above a month, after this fatal Separation, wheh one morning ranging a little farther than usual, in pursuit of food, I was Surrounded in a thicket, and instdntly Seized on by Several wild arabs who took me to their cav^, chained me to a rock for Some days, land fed me with just Sustenance enough to Support my wretched Being.
. At length, they sold me to a merchant, who carried me to Aleppo; where, after suffering a variety of wtetchednefs, which nothing but the Almighty power could enable me to Sustain, I was disposed of, to a captain of a vestel, who belonged to Sallee.
I 3 Part
■ifb Distrcst Virtue; or. The
Part of my time, during this wretched period, I was employed at his country houscj and at the other doomed to row a galleyi He at last took a resolution of of conveying me, with many poor staves, to the West Indies, for a considerable purchase; and w were chained, and put : on hoard la failee yestel r when the gracious disposer of all goodness Sent me, sin Unexpected wonderful deliverance, in the most generous, the most noble minded of men, our friend here. Sir Charles Belmont. •
■ Yes, heaven directed, like Some guardian angel, : he unloofed my fetters - he eased me of my galling chaini^ j. he4*estored me to my
■ - able
  199
able wife, my angelie daughter, to the Sweets of liberty, health, andhappiiiefs. -- Toyoii, Sir Charles Belmont, under heaven, I owa the preservation of that life, which must be ever devoted to you. — How can I discharge the mighty debt !’^
The good man here ended his affetsting little narrative, whileteaf^ of gratitude flowest' dbwh Iris''ve * Berable cheeks, •;
^ ^ ^ #
Yost see, Lucy, how a Small mistake may lead one into a labyrinth of error. Had my dear lord, not misunderstood Sir Charles, in ' I 4 be
2c0 .Drstrest Virtue i or. The '
believing he never had any child, all this affair might have been ea sily Settled : and I, forsooth, out of an excess of delicacy, forb®re even So much as touching upon a fubjetst, which apparently Seemed to be a matter of Some great and Secret anxiety to our good friend The little affecting circumstance of the picture I mentioned to Harriet on my arrival here; but She, as well as myself, was So prepossessed with tyre notion that Sir Charles had no child, that v/e neither of us thought anything farther of the matter. — What a packet have I written!
This moment I See Harriet leading the little Eliza, with Sir Charles,,
return
  miss Harriet Nelibn.
returning from a walk in the wood. Harriet, covered with blushes, and a Sweet confusion in her lovely countenance, looks up, and Smiles upon me. I must hasten to her; but first, I must Seal, and Send this to my Lucy, and beg she will believe,
I am,
ever her Saithfuli
Mary Cleveland.
'■ I 5 L E T'
pistrest Virtue; or, Th j'
letteil XLIIL
ads y[ziy Cleveland', to Lvicy moreworth.
South g reen.
Congratulate me, Lucy, on posteffing the gift * of pro |)hecy; or rather congratulate the lovely' ‘harriet, sin having gained the unalterable affetstion of the amiable, the worthy Sir Charles belmont but the following conversation will best explain this happy event..
s^oqu' after I had dispatched
  mtss Harriet nelson. 203 '. V‘ ‘ '
my last letter to you, Harriet
entered my apartment. — O, lady Cleveland, ” Said She, ** I have wonderful news to tell you, !” % ‘‘ And O, lady Belmont, ” replied I, for such I am fare you will soon be; I will spare your blushes. Sir Charles, I am certain, by this sweet confufiun of my Harriet, has been making a declaration which I have many days expected he would do. — Is it not so ?” continued ], clasping her to my fond heart; “Come my dear, hide your blushes, da my bosom” ” ',
indeed, my. beloved friend, the most generous of men has been pleased to declare — he has I 6 ever
204 . j or. The
ever esteemed me — but that the action of my having preserved his
elia has greatly endeared -- -- -- "S
“Come, come, interrupted!. Say, that he loves you to distraction — I am certain, my dear, he has long loved you — I hope you have not, out of an over strained piece of delicacy, and from an excess of refined heroism, or romantic nonsense, re fused this excellent man — If you
have, I positively never will -- -- --
** Refused I” interrupted She, “O heavens! Lady Cleveland !-^ No, I am all humble gratitude. Alas f your ladyship knew my ur> happy wcakness, my hopeless attachment, long — long ago, when I never dared so much as to look

up to this honour : I will, therefore, honestly confess to my Sweet friend, not alt the distress 1 have suffered;; — even, what I imagined it at the time, his unkind reception of my letter — Not even the amazing difparitf of our situation in life, his Splendid fortune, or my abject circumstances, could ever erase him from niy breast. In the midst of the most exquisite distress, that poverty, and the loss of the esteem of my dear Mrs. Broniley could inflict, with every hardship, • every misery, my wretched circumstances could bestow. Sir Charles belmont’s form, his noble virtue^j his unblemished chafadter, were the constant Subjects of my waking thoughts;
aoff   The
thoughts; nay, even my Slumbers were haunted by his presence. Often have I wasted the ffolitary midnight hour in sighs for him! — Blit this last action of redeeming my dear parent from slavery, is So noble. So generousty great, that I want words to express my gratitude, ”
“Yes, my charming Harriet,, you were born for, each other. He
is, indeed, infinitely good and amiable. — But yonder I see my dear lord walking in the little wilderness.. Let me hasten to acquaint him with the joyful tidings df this happy event, which his benevolent heart has been ardently wistiing for,
^ ^ Be
FI i story of miss Harriet N el Son. 0, 07:,
Ai m ^ ^
. Before I sleep this night I must: give riiy Lucy a little account of the interesting conversatioh which happened this day, after we were sitting at dinnerr Mr. Nelson, whose felicity, as you. must imagine, is beyondlall stefcriptign,. was agaiir testifying the over fiow ings of his grateful heart to Sir Charles. — How, ” fai sthe, ‘‘shall I ever, my noble delivereiv discharge the ishmenfe debt of grati * tude I owe you !”
Sir Charles instantly replied, fondly seizing the hand bf Harriet at the time, “Yoii may return it,
jny
2o8   The
my good Mr. nelson, a hundred fold, by giving me this lovely girl, your angelic daughter. She is — She must be mine. Say that you approve our union, and make me the happiest of men 1”
The good man was So overwhelmed with this amazing declaration, So utterly were his faculties overcome by the various emotions of wonder, gratitude, and joy, that for Some moments he Sat in a state of absolute stupefaction. At length, Suddenly rising, he flung himself at Sir charles’s feet, in a perfect agony of transport.
“O, my noble, generous friend, my kind preserver, command my Vitmost Services; my life my all i. - ia

is devoted to you. Gracious heaven! is it possible I could have had any addition to my happiness? O, Sir Charles, my Harriet is yours, must be yours, for ever — p, unutterable, transporting happiness !’*
Mrs. nelson, with an inimitable sweetness and grace, testified her rapturous joy and gratitude on this occasion likewise : — but to tell you all that was Said, by these happy people, or to endeavour, by description, to give you any idea of the boundless delight they felt, on the occasion, would more than fill my paper j I stiall therefore decline attempting either, and.
leave
• l>istrest Virtue; or, The
leave your ifriagifiation to Supply the defetst ds it can,
• An early day is talked of: — indeed to defer such nuptials, would, be a preposterous, affedfation, of which Lam Sure my sweet Harriet is not capable. :
Adieu, for tonight; — morrow we are to go to a fuperhl seat beyond Falmouth, belonging to a young nobleman; after which excursion you fiball hear : of the ex trem.e bappiness pf all here, as ^eedily as postible, ^
^ After a most agreeable ramble for above a fortnight, we are again V - % re
Histoiw osmin Harriet ndson.
. returned to the Sweet retirement of soutli green, Blessed Solitude! Can you imagine it possible for any persons. upon the face of the earth, to enjoy So great a‘ share of happiness.. those whigh are at present 'contained in this little cottage?. : Shall I attempt to describe the felicity of the excellent Mr. nelson, in again being united to the most worthy of women, while the filent tear of gratitude they both endeavour to suppress, when they look up to their noble benefactor, with eyes, suffused with tenster ness? Or shall I attempt to give you an account of the inexpressible happiness of the worthy Sir Charles Belmont? — of the Sweet blushing • - timte
^12   The
timidity of his lovely Harriet? — • No, all these happy Scenes of delight my Lucy must imagine, as it is impostible for any pen to be, equal to the talk of describing them. All I can tell her is, that this day fortnight is fixed on for the lovely Harriet to give her hand to her enraptured lover.
During our little excursion, an incident happened which has railed my esteem for Mrs. nelson almost to admiration. What a truly Christian charity does the possess!! following circumstance will Sufficiently evince it.
One day, while we were at Penzance, in our road from the Seat of the young nobleman befoyemen tioned.
Histery of miss Harriet ndson, 21
tioned, where we had put up at an inn, a poor woman, in mean attire,; who appeared to be about the age of thirty, and finking under the weight of want and wretchedness, begged to be admitted with het basket of fruit.
As we had been just wishing for a refreshment of that kind after dinner, I desired the good hostess to send in the woman to us; when we Soon consumed her little stock of fruit, for which she was very thankful, and was going to retire; but as every person, Seemingly in distress, is Sure to excite the com pashon of the good Mrs. nelson she ashed her if she had any chil7 dren, and if her htishand was living f ' " the
Sf,   oty The
'The poor woman, after having' attentively viewed Mrs. Nelfoni lipon my mentioning her. name, burst into tears.
, No, madam, ” Said She, mf husband has been dead' Some time -- But! Gracious God 1 Is your name Kelfon.? -- 0 yes; I am Sure it is -- That face I well remember— — also, the cruel usage, the barbarous treatment, I gave to the unhappy wife of my poor uncle; and now I am poor my Sel f. - -- ‘f But, ” continued the woman, ‘ ** on my knees, rnadam, I implore your pardon. I was young, vain, and thoughtless;; by the world, and ruined by pride arid fpllyc’
C C Can
idistory of miss Harriet Nfelfon^ ii“
“it be pofilbje, ’V sid Mri Nelson, that y, oi are the daughter of my brother Dr nelson W' O yes;, Sir, I am, indeed, his only child, and yet reduced to the miserable state you no V behold me; but that lady. Sir, never, never can forgive me cruelly, alas! in Suited her -- insulted her in distress !’^^ Compose yourself, sit down, ’* laid, the excellent Mrs. nelfon^i with her usual sweetness. ‘vbstt say — 'pray inform me, how; Such a change coy Id happen/.’what^ did you sty from your parents?; This noble company, ” • looking round to all) will, I hope^ excufe my curiosity on this occa j Sion ?”.,
‘....we
  The
We bowed assent; and every one expressing a great desire like wish, to hear by what means the poor woman was reduced to her present Situation, she, after many sighs and a few tears, began her little narrative in the following manner, at the same time, addressing herself to Mrs. nelson.
“Soon after my rude behaviour to you, madam, my father met with an unexpected loss, with regard to his fortune, in bad Securities. In vain he tried to retrench his manner of living; for my mother, whom I am compelled to Say, was an expensive woman, would Hot consent to any change in appearances. She indulged me and herself
Ilistoiy of miss Harriet nelson. aiy
herself in the same fashionable gaieties of life as before, by which means my father’s income became every day less able to Support us. He Soon grew melancholy; and, after a long expensive illness, died at Bath, and left my mother in very narrow circumstances : So that Ihe was Soon reduced to live on the bounty of a brother, who was kind enough to take her into his family; and I was constrained to accept the office of companion to a young lady of my acquaintance. She was of a gay turn, as well as myself, and'had a brother in the. army, whom. Such was my extreme pride and vanity, I believed it possible to make a conquest of.. But, alas! by his continual assiduities, and agreeable conversation, I became the dupe to my own Snare.
Here I miist take stiame to my * ¥ol. Ill, K Self,
i2i8   The
Self, in acknowledging I gave him. too many opportunities of addressing me with a freedom inconsistent with the strict behaviour every virtuous woman Should preserve: : -- I was flattered, young, and vain.
To conclude : I was unhappily Seduced by this young gentleman, who was, as I have Since found, a profested libertine in every Tefpedt, As the consequence of our guilty commerce was not postible to be concealed, to hide my stiame, he procured me a husband, a tradesman of Small property in the west of England. His circumstances were tolerably easy, and continued So for Some years when, at last, he was unhappily prevailed on tq engage in the mercantile way, and venturing his all in one bottom,. the strip and cargo were unhappily lost, and in a moment we were reduced
  mlss Harriet nelson. 2^19
duced to beggary Within a year afterwards, my husband ended his unhappy days in a prison, for debt, and I was left in very great distress, with five young children.
After the loss of the best of husbands, for Such I must call him, though poor, I removed to this place three years since, with what little I had left, and glad I am of procuring bread for my children. I Sometimes, as you see, get a little fruit, which I dispose of chiefly to strangers on their journey through Penzance. Heaven directed me now to you, madam, and on my knees I once more implore your pardon. Adversity, the hard hand of adversity has: long been upon me, and though the weight of it is more than: I have bden well able to bear, yet, I bless God, it has opened my eyes to the defor ^ > K 2 mity
; i220 .Distress: Virtue j or. The
mity of vice, and brought on a tru€ and Sincere repentance, which I hope will find acceptance both from heaven and you.”
We were all much affedfed with the poor woman’s unhappy story Mrs. nelson particularly So. With the benign aspect of an angel. She gave her every comfortable afiu« ranee that She would do all She could for her and her little family, dind, as a proof She meant as She Said, after Mrs. nelson had made Some necestary inquiries, She pre.. Seated her with five guineas. The generous Harriet too, has promised to make an provision for this poor relation and her children; and my dear lord Cleveland, who is generosity itself, dnstantly presented her with ten guineas; as did dikewife the worthy Sir Charles Belmont: we left this poor woman t -. over
  Mist Harriet neison. 2.21
overwhelmed, it must be imagined, with joy, amazement, and gratitude..
m ?■?-
my Lucy, what a noble minded woman is Mrs. Bromley! she has this day. So transported is she with the approaching alliance, Sent down a Special, mestenger with such a letter to Harriet, and Sir Charles — and such a present to Harriet! — bills, my dear!, to the amount of five thousand pounds.,
; Generous woman !^ — yet. Such is her goodness, she Says, this is too little for the cruel injury she did her. She tells me, for she has favoured me, likewise, vrith a letter, that her dear girl shall not go destitute to the arms of Sir Charles Belmont. Her noble present is, K 3 like
a 2: 2,  . The,
likewise, attended with a casket, in which is a diamond necklace, earrings, bracelets for her lovely arms, and Mrs. bromley’s picture in miniature. Set round in a very elegant manner.
The day aster the celebration of the nuptials, we are all to Set out for Bromley Abbey, where the excellent, hospitable ovrner of it tells., us. She hall keep open house for a fortnight, at least. What a glorious reception will this be for Harriet, — turned, as the poor, injured girl was, disgracefully out of doors! — Oh, virtue! innocence! how noble is thy triumph!
Adieu, my Sweet friend. — Sir Charles, and his happy Harriet, call me to take a ramble with them, among the rocks, - on the sea bcach. — You stiaii hear from
me,. '
hisirory of miss h arnet nelson. 22-3
me, as Soon as the approaching joyful event is over.
Believe me ever yours,,
Mary Cleveland, :
LETTER X.DIV.
Lady Cleveland, U Lad. hlorevvorth.
Scuth green.
INDEED, with your lady' ship’s permission (I am Speaking to Harriet, my Lucy) I must, and will, write to my dear friend, to acquaint her, thdt about an hour ago, 1 had the inexpreshble happiness of feeing Sir Charles Belmont, united bv the most Sacred ties, to the lovely Harriet Nelson.
K 4.. Lady
424 Distress Virtue;, or, The Lady Belmont, in Ccntinuaticn.
VES, madam, I am indeed the happiest of women : but my utmost pride, and boast is, that all I. am, and all I peffess, is primarly owing to your noble friend; to the friendship, the bounty, the favour of the excellent lady Cleveland. I am persuaded my present happiness is owing more to her ladyship’s goodness, than to any desert or merit of my own. ^not one word, I suppose, has she told you of the most elegant Service of plate, that was ever -- -- -- -- - — ^
Lady Cleveland, in Confimiafion,
GIVE me the pen, Harriet. My Lucy will see everything, when she visits your Ladyship at Belmont
 , ^225
mont Castle. Come, my Sweet Harriet, do not blush, nor be So awkward, but go down to your excellent husband, whilst I write for one hour.
these brides — but you and I, Lucy, have gone through the whole basliful ceremony — are So absent,
So -- -- -- -- -- but his impossible to
describe the awkward Situation.
Sir Charles received the hand of bis charming bride in the neighbouring little church; the path to’ which was strewed with flowers, by th young maidens of the village. O Lucy, had you feeu' the happy father, Mr. Nelson, presenting the hand of his angelic child to Sir Charles, you would have been as highly affetsted as I was, A neighbouring clergyman performed the ceremony.
harriet’s dress -- nevef Surely, was
.. K 5 there
226   The
there a more elegant figure! -- -; her dress, I say, which you particularly inquire after, was plain, and fi mplcj but,, altogether lovely. — A white lustring negligee, with fmall stiver spots;; amaranth in her bosom;; no other jewels,, but a diamond comb, which supported the profusion of her fine hair. — The transported Sir Charles,, was dressed in the richest taste.
tomorrow we fet out for Bromley Abbey, in two coaches and six,., and a great number of attendants.. We. are to travel but stowly, on account of my ladyship.: — You, my Lucy, though you do not tell me a word about it yourself.. be confined, 1 hear, at the same, time I stiall.
Sir Charles leaves a handsome present to the poor of this parish. — Buthe is this moment broke into
  227.
to my closet, infists upon having the pen out of my hand, and demands my immediate presence in the happy circle,,. So that I am not Suffered to add another word more than that 1 am,
my lucy’s affectionate,
Mary Cleveland..
LETTER XLV
Lad. Cleveland,, /*? Lady. Moreworth..
Bromley Abbeyi.
At this, hospitable mansion..
Lucy,) we all Safely arrived a few days ago.; — What a. noble minded woman is Mrs.. Bromley, and what an excellent heart does she possess, |,
You.
22 8 Distress: Virtue; of, The
You desire me to be very particular. When I tell you in the first place, that Sir Charles Belmont, and his charming Harriet are to be the whole, and Sole heirs' of the beneficent owner of this delightful seat, you will not wonder at the rejoicings and festivity the dear good woman has Shown on this occasion. Our entrance into Bromley Park was really magnificent Some miles from that place, we were met by above twenty tenants on horseback, with’, rich bridal favours. At the gate of the Park, we found above thirty young girls, all dressed in a beautiful uniform, adorned with ribbons, -, and each with a basket of flowers on her arm. They ranged them selves in great order, and began strewing the road through which we fldwly pasted, in the usual form,
and
fliistory of miss Harriet nelson. 229^
and order of a procession. As we were advancing towards the noble abbey, ' in this state, - through the' finest avenue of elms perhaps in England, in which were placed, at certain distances, ^ Several tents, filled with the poor of this, and tshe neighbouring parishes, wha' were regaling themshlves with am entertainment provided for them on this joyful occasion;; dear lady Belmont, Softly whispered' me, O my friend! may your Harriet, - preierve her humility, her gratitude to that amazing power, who has wrought these Wonders! — But say, lady Cleveland, is it poshble that these rejoicings, these traniporting objects I see around me, can be on the account of her, who, through this very Spot, I will remember, was driven out a wretched, wandering ‘out ^
cast
  The
cast I — Gracious heaven! Support me to bear this amazing change !’" Said this excellent woman, whilst the tear of Sweet humility stole down her cheek.
All, my angelic friend, ” I replied, “is the reward of that innocence, that steady virtue, and exalted filial piety, of which you have given such exemplary proofs.”.
By this time we reached the venerable mansion, at the entrance of which stood the delighted Mrs. Bromley. Never was a meeting so affecting!! pen of a Fielding, only, could justly describe it., Harriet would have knelt, to have received the blesting of her bene fadtrefs, but that, generous friend caught her fondly in her arms, and prested her to her bosom— — !” cried She, “my dearest lady Belmont, forgive me! — Come to my I. heart.
  Mils Harriet Nelfbn. cjl'
Ireart, to my fond arms f — Oh! my child, my 'injured Harriet, Said the dear woman, weeping, can you pardon,, can you forgive my cruel treatment of you
Lady Belmont would not suffer her to proceed. Both to her and ' to Sir Charles, Mrs. bromley’s behaviour was inexpressibly tender' She Seems, on this occasion, to have received new life..
'A most noble entertainment was, given yesterday, to all the gentry in the countyafter which, we had a ball. Sir Charles, and his lovely bride, danced together, and were the adirriration of all the company. Nothing could be more brilliant than her appearance. Her dress was a pale pink, embroidered’ with large bunches of stiver ssowers, tied carelessly with gold kndts. She was richly adorned with all her jewels. This.
cffi   The
This evening there is to be a ihost magnificent tent pitched in a wood in the parle;; which the Same noble company are invited. We are all to meet in masquerade drefies, and there is to be a brilliant Supper and concert. tomorrow 1 will give you .an account
of it
> ^ « #
entertainment, my Lucy, last night, was elegant beyond expression. The wood was lighted lip with, an infinite number of lamps; and Several french horns and clarinets were dispersed about, in different parts of it, which had an amazing fine effect. A masquerade at Ranelagh, or at Mrs. Cornel ly’s, never had half the charms of this I am certain, for cheerful innocence conducted the whole.
. The
History osmiss Harriet nelson.
The dresses, which particularly pleased me, were the following Lady Belmont in the habit of an Arcadian Shepherdess; Lady Stanley. in that of a sultana; Fanny Danby a milk maid, and her lister a nun Sir Charles a Turkish bashaw, and'lord Cleveland a hermit; my ladyship, an old fortuneteller, and'mrs. Bromley, who was as gay and lively as any of us,, personated, admirably well, a lady abbess. As there were above two hundred masks, we had a great variety of figures., We had a very pretty ballad singer, with her basket on her arm, who diverted us much : and we had, besides, harleejuins, friars, kings, devils,
. and morrice dancers. In short, we all met to be pleased, and were So in the highest degree. About four in the morning we broke up and parted, .- It
2, 34 Listrest Virtue; or. The
It is proposed to stay here about a fortnight longer, and to Spend it in a round of entertainments : after which, Mrs. Bromley,, the excellent Mr. apd Mrs. Nelson, with Sir Charles, and his charming bride, are to accompany us to Cleveland hall,, to stay a month; where you,, my dearest lady mort r worthy must join the delightful party.
Not one word have I yet Said off miss Lenox. She is, my Lucy, it is humbly to be presumed,, at this moment, an inhabitant with the bleslcd. About .a twelvemonth ago, it Seems, her health began to decline apace, probably owing to her long confinement in her apartment, and, after a few days iliness, : stie resigned her Soul to the al midity, in the arms of her beloved Mrs., Bromley. She, I doubt not„ •
  misa Harriet nelson.
is happy, and gone to meet the reward due to Suffering innocence.
I hear her wicked Seducer, the vile Sir Harry Boastwell, has lately lost: his life in a duel, on account of Some infamous woman he took from a bagnio.
As to the abominable Miss Clif -- ford, She has stung off entirely her mask of hypocrisy, and is gone abroad with a Sergeant in a marching regiment, stiunnedahd despised by all her acquaintance.
The incomparable Lady Belmont has already Sent extreme handsome presents to those good women mrs. Brown, and Mrs. Hartly, with whom She lodged in the time of her distress; and the worthy Mrs. builen’s contested, but kind little gift, has been amply repaid by the generosity of the worthy. Sir Charles Belmont, wlio has full -- filled
^   The
I
filled the Scriptural phrase, that’ charity Shall be rewarded tenfold.. In short, the benevolence of their exalted minds is an inexhaustible theme.
‘M look on a generous mind, *' says an admired writer as the noblest work of our creator,, and am persuaded, where it resides, no real merit is wanting. The meanest self-love is often taken for this great principle, and I have known many an extolled atstion attributed to it, which had no higher a Source than the fuggestions of concealed vanity.”.
This moment Sir Charles, and his lovely Harriet,, call me to drink a fillabub in the little hermitage / in the wood.. — Coming, my dear friends! Adieu, therefore, iny be —
Melmoth, in his Letters of Fitzolborne.
loved

iloved Lucy,, till I have the happi= ness of Seeing you at cleveland hall, and then the felicity must be complete of your faithful and af fedlionate
Mary C be V e L a n di
will here close the correspondence of these most worthy and accomplished persons. The good-natured reader must however, be informed, that the friendship of Such exalted minds ended hut with death.
The ‘excellent Mrs. Bromley, with whom they spent some months each Summer, after a long life, devoted to the practice of every Christian, and social virtue, left her whole fortune to the worthy Sir Charles Belmont, and his admirable lady
Mr. and Mrs. nelson divide theit
?£: 3'8   The
their time equally between Bromley Abbey, where Sir Charles now resides, and their Sweet retirement at Llandwelly.
Lord and Lady Cleveland continue a pattern of conjugal felicity; blessed with a numei'ous and healthy offspring: — as are likewise her amiable Lucy and Lady Belmont.
^ There cannot be a more delightful sight than those beautiful and accomplistied women, with their husbands, while their little troop of lovely girls, and Sportive boys, with sparkling eyes, and rosy cheeks, are playing before them.
The pleasures of these refined minds never can be exhausted whilst there is a single object left whom they can relieve by their bounty. Great is their happiness
ia

in this life, and exquisite Surely will it be in the next.
The reader may here see, in the amiable charadfer of Lady Belmont, that suifering innocence is the peculiar care of providence, — Her story teaches this useful lesson:
Though plung’d in ills, and exercised in care,
Yet never let the noble mind despair: :
wih, at lass, in pity to our grie s, ■ “By unforeseen expedients send relief.”
One more quotation, which can never be enough inculcated in the youth of both Sexes, and I have done. It is,, that
iblejfmgs ever wait on virtuous deeds;
And though t 2sfure rewardfucceeds.”
FINIS,
i
Advertisement.
indifpenfable businefs preventing, the edi t r from Correcting the Sheets as they ‘tame from the Press, many Errors in the ex preflion. Pointing, c. which never had a Place in the Manuscript, have, unfortunately, crept into the Print. Should the Rigour of Criticism be softened by this Declaration, the End, for which it was made, will be fully obtained
To the BOOKSELLERS.
Any dealer, paying ready money., and sending for not kfs than twenty-five volumes of Novels, printed for me, Will have the Same allowance, though of different sorts, as is usually made when only one sort is taken; by which there will be a faring to the buyer of more ihzn fourteen percent.
Note, twenty-five Volumes in Quires for — — 2 - o - b
A list of which may be Seen at the conclusion of almost every Novel printed for
F. NOBLE, Holbork.
