love letters, 
FROM 
King H ENRY VIII 
TO 
Anne Bolejn^ c( 
( One Shilling,) 
FROM 
ing HEN rvylll. 
TO 
NNE BOLETN: 
me in French and Some in Engltjh. 
To which are added, 
TRANSLATIONS of Those Written in French, 
WITH AN 
APPENDIX, 
CONTAINING 
VO Letters from Anne bouyuy To Cardinal Wolsey 
ith Her Last to H E NR Tthe Vlllth. 
jaglum fabamque fidem non crlmina pofco. Ovid. 
LONDON: nted for J. C H u R C H i L L at the black ^wan in Bater nojier kow, MDCCXIV. 
J 
it 
THE 
PREFACE. 
okigmav Letters from King r i^enry the Vlllth to Anne Boleyn 
Vatican Library., where wt£fa<^^ they are Jhewft to all Strangers About Thirty Tears ago. Dr. Fall late Tree editor of York, took a Copy of them, which he Collated very carefully with the Original, as he ajfu ted the Bishop of Salisbury, to whom he made a Present of it. The, Bishop thought the Letters had fame Exprejfions which made them un ft for a Place in Us collebion at the End of hl Third Vdime of the History of the refor inatipn, therefore sent them to the Printer to, he Published apaft, in juf if cation of the Oh 
Jervdtions he has made upon them in that Book. ■ ' ‘ 
Th are Printed exably from Dr. fallv 
^py\ 'tpitbout correbing so, much as the False 
^ simu nff 
U The PREFACE. 
Spelling either in French or English, that the King s, true manner of Writing might appear even in the mimitefl Particulars ^ for which Reason also his Cyphers and Devices are imita -- ted. The French Letters are Translated to satisfy the cukiofity of the English Reader., with as little Variation from tloe Literal Meaning of the Words, as the different Phrase of the Languages would allow. 
It was thought like wise that some Intro du sion would be necejfary to ?nake the Letters generally understood arid therefore since the Biflop would not give himself any further trouble about them the Fublifier was advised to employ some Friend to give a short View of the remarkable tranfasions which preceded them and gave occaflon to them. This, with a] few reflesions on the Letters themselves, may give ait ordinary Reader some Notion of the Grounds of King Henryh Divorce, and may arm him against the Calumnies of the pa piffs on that subjes. This is only intended for the Use of those, who have not Leisure or 'Opportunities to see that Matter fully explained in the bijhopa History of the resormation. 
. To follow then the Order of timeit may first he observed, that in K. Hen _ Hist. Refor. Vllthh time, his Eldest 
* Prince Arthur, being pass 
N0v.r4.1501. Fifteen Tears of Age, was .Married to the Frincefs Catharine of Spain, who 
The P R E F A C E. III 
•was Elder than himfeli: ^ that they lived together as Man and Wife for several Months and then Prince Arthur dying., it was resolved for Reasons of State that Prince Henry flozdd Marry his Brothers Widow. This was opposed by Warham Arch bifiop h/canterbury as ahfohtely milawfid.^ hut advised by Fox Bishop of Winchester, who thought all Difficulties would he rettioved by a Difpetifation from Rorne ^ accordingly a Bidlwas obtained to that effeel., and they were Married, the Prince being yet under Age. But Warham had so pof fefsa the King with Scruples again ft this Mar plage, that the Day on which the Prince was of Age, he by his Fathers Order protffied agahift it as Null and 22.1505. 
Vtid ^ and Henry the Vllth, with his Dyintr Breath perffted in charging his Son to break if off entirely. However, when Henry the vihth oame to the Crown, it was resolved in Council that he jhoidd rettew his Marriage, which was done pubuckly, 1 “” ^ 5* 1509. and he had several Children by the ^fueen, who all dyed young, except the Lady Mary. 
After tms there appeared no farther difqui et in the kingl Mind, nor any Sign of an intended Divorce, till the Tear 1524, when car wolsey by his Legantine Mandate, Published a Bull of the P opens again ft those that tontrabted Marriage within tha forbidden DAW 
The PREFACE. 
grees» This Mandate is yet extant in the re gifler of Fisher Eifiop n/'rochester. What followed., makes this ftfly fufpebed to have been done on the Kings Account, To confatn which Suspicion., there is a concurring circitm jlance in a Letter from Simon Gtinetis to Bucer, 
Dated Sept, i o. 1531, where 
Part King had declared 
to him that he had abllaitied from Queen catherine/or Seven Tears upon Scruples of Conscience. 
However., thd* the King had Scruples at that time, yet he concealed thetn carefullj from the World for some Tears * and the immediate Occafwn of their breaking out, seems to have 
been given by the French Ambaf March 2.1 $27. who came England to 
treat of several Matters, and particularly of a Marriage between the Frincefs Mary and the French ki?ig, dr the Duke of Orleans lois Second Son. This Alternative was april3o.i527. agreed, though it remained 
sometime in fufpetice, Because Hall. C President of the Parliament 
of Faris doubted. Whether the Mar“ “between the King and her Mother, be ing his brother’s Wise, were good or no. 
The Bifljop of Tarbe made the Herbert. same objebion, and renewed it to 
the km£s Ambajfadors in France, as appears by King Henryh Speech to the Mayor and Citi 
The P R E F A C E. ^ 
zens of London concerning his Scruples where he fays., “When our Ambastade was last in Fraitce, and Motion was made, That the” 
“Duke of should Marry our said 
Daugter, one of the Chief Councaylores to “the Frejich King said, It were well done “to know, whether she be the King of Eng“ “lawful Daughter, or not ^ for w3l “known it is, that he begat her on his Bro ‘‘ thers Wise, which is directly contrary to “god’s Law, and his Precept ”. That this Coimcellor was the Bishop of Tarbe, is affirmed by the j^ijjwp of Bayonne, ^ 
. in the Account he gives of this III 
Speech to the Court ^ France, in a Letter dated the 2jth of Nov. 1528 *, yet this very Bishop, of Tarbe was afterwards advanced to be a Cardinal, and was sofar from retrabing his Opinioti, that when he was Cardinal of Gmndtxnont, in a Letter dated the ajth of March, 1530, he writes to the French Court, “That he had Served ^ the l.joxd Rochford, (Anne Boleyn's Father) all he could, and that the Pope had three fe“ “times said to him in Secret, that he ‘‘ wished the Marriage had been already made “in England, either by the legate’s difpenfa tion, or otherwise ^ provided it was not done “by him, nor in Diminution of his Authority, 
“under Pretence of the Laws of god’k 
This condub shows. That it was not Religiotjt, 
h " but 
VI The PREFACE. 
hut Political Views., that turna the Court of Rome againji the kinglcaufe, 'Ouhichthey at 'frji plainly favoured., • 
And now after this Short Account of the cir oumjiances that gave the Beginning to thekitig's Scruplesy it will be proper to confider the Arguments by which he fortified hitnfelf Sft them. lthefe, as he himself 
* * : were, that he found by the Law of moses, If a Man took his brother’s Wise, they shoufd die Childless this made Mm reflea on the Death of his Children, which he now looked on as a Curse from God, for that unlawful Marriage.. He found Thomas. Aquinas (whom he chiefly valued of all the Cafuifis,) of Opinion, That the Laws n Leviticus, about the forbidden Degrees of Marriage, were Moral arid Eternal, such as obliged all Chrifiians and that the Pope could only dispense with the Laws of Hoe Church, but not with the Laws of God .^ for this Reason, That no Daws can be difpenced with by any. Authority, but that which is Equal to the Authority that enabed it : It may be observed. That as these Arguments were of Force in themselves so they were yet Jlronger to a True roimn ca tholick thaii to another 'Man *, for when the Validity of the Marriage came afterwards to he thoroughly canvajfed, it appeared that the whole Tradition of the Church, andtheopini pns of its dobors were a^ainfi the Mdrridgey 
and 
The PREFACE, vijand 
the Arguments for its Validity were taken from private Explications of Scripture and Reasonings from thetn, 
♦ 
In the Tear 1527, before Cardinal wolseyv Journey to France, which he began on the d of July, The King's Scruples were become pubuck, as Two Writers tefify almof in the same jvirds : “This Sea“ “Hall, began a Same in London“ “the king’s Confessor the Bishop of ln“ “called Dr. Langland, and diverse other “great Clerks, had ‘ told the King, that the “Marriage between him and the Lady kathe rine, late Wife to his Brother Prince Ar“ “was not Good, but Damnable ^ and the “King thereupon should Marry the Duchess“ “at the Town of Calais this Sum“ “^ and the vifcounfei^nr^/nrf had brought “with him the Picture of the Said Lady, and “that at his return out of France the Car“ “should pafs the Sea to go into France “to fetch her. 
This Suspicion of the cardi nai s going to promote a Second V Idatch in France is confirmed by a Letter of his., Bated Feversham, July the th., 15.27, where he says, Archbishop Warham had warned 
b 2 him 
viij The PREFACE. 
him of the great Jealouftes which Queen Cathe _ fiee had of his Journey. And Parc 1.^^ by another Letter Dated auguh 
the 1st, 1527, where belabours to satisfy the King, That the Popes Dispensa Lion was in its Vf Null and Void. All these Particulars will he the stronger Proofs of the Cardinal s Intention, when it fall be proved that the Cardinal could then have no'thoughts of Anne Boleyn. jvhat he did in this Negotiation was kept secret Put it seems it was very agreeable to the French, for they sent great Acknowledgments the next Tear for the Honour 
of his Emhajfy, by Ambajfadors of the Firjt Rank, who came to see the King of England swear to the League with their Majler, upon which Occafon Hall writes, “The common People Said, What needs all this Swearing, The French King. “was once Sworn, and all his Nobility *, yea, “and all his good Towns but yet they brake 
“with us, and So will they “again when they see an ad vantage. But to return from this Digrejfion, to the Hijiory of Mistress Boleyn. It must be observed, that in the end May 1527, the Lord Rochford her Father came over to En h R R f gland from France with the Dut 
Pani.^ chess of alanfonv pibure to few 
it to King Henry, and it was 
then 
The PREFACE, IX 
then in all probability that Anne Boleyn came ever with hirn.^ for though fie had been in England in 1522, yet fie did not Jiay longy but returned into the Service of Claude Queen of Fpnce, where fie coutinued till that Queen dyed., which was in 1524, and then went into the Duchess of alanson Service., which fie left probably at this time. Soon after her coming into England fie was taken into Queen catharinev Courtwhere the Lord Peircy courted her., and was upon the Point of Marrying her, had not Cardinal viokcy, by the kin^s Order prevented it *, and as the same Author affures us, it was not till after the cardinals return from France, which was on the laf Day of September 1527, that the King opened his affehion for Anne Boleyn to him. 
From this fiort View of the tranfaeiions that preceded the kht£s affebion to Anne Boleyn, it appears how unjust a Calumny of tj^ Papifs it is to say ^ That the King would never have had Thoughts of a Divorce, or Scruples against his first Marriage, had, not his unlawful Pajfion for mi frefs Boleyn prompted Mm to them. So far is this from true, that it is plainly proved, that the Kings Scruples were 
infused 
X The PREFACE. 
itifitfed in him from his Infattcy.^ on the jiiflejl Grounds -.^ that they uuere revived in 1524. himyears before they were Public and that they were commonly talpd of and a Ne'ii^ Match contrived for him to the Duchess of alanson, before Anne Boleyn appear d at Court. The Letters will fet this Matter yet in a clearer Light. • 
But before I make atiy Remarks on these I wujl first give a Short Account of the Kings Negotiations at Komt., without which Hist. Ref. jqjjrig qj' thetn cannot be under flood, 
* ii the End of 1527, The King soul Hil. Ref. cited the Rope for a commijjion to Parc III judge the Validity of his Marriage Rymer '^^dh Queen Catherine, which after Tom XIV sometime was obtained in a Bull dated the lokh of April, 1528, enf powering Cardinal wolsey, with the archbk shop or any other English Bishop, to judge the Marriage, But this was iot made Use of perhaps because it was thought, that a Stranger ought to be employed that the r^ ceedhig night be more impartial. Herbert. So a New Commiffon was deftred.^ and obtained bearing Date the 6th of June, in which the Cardinals wolsey Campegio (tin italianj were appointed joynt Legates to judge the Marriage, andeto^make 
thid 
The PREFACE. xj 
• 
this the surer, there was a Pollicitation Cor Arojmfe) procured on the 'id of1528 That the Tope would never inhibit or revoke this Commijfwn to judge the Marriage • and a Decretal Bull, which''cotitama an'^jbl solute Decifon of the Cause, which was otily fiewn to the King, and Cardinal Wolfe .Gampegio ^ but all these Precautions which were admitted of, when the Pope was in a dijlrefs d Conditioti, did not refrain his Ho linefs from sending one Campana before the End of the Tear, to see the Decretal Bull secretly Burnt • and from recajimg the Legate's Commijfion, and avocating the cauce to Rome the next Tear, •tphen his Jfairs were more flourifiing, _ and the Emperor S who was Qpueen Catherine^’ kephfw \ had graiited all his Demands, j shorter in this Relation of the Pope's Profeedintrs than the Consequence it had may seem to have re qmred : But it is not my Defgn m this ^eface to give a Complete History of the Divorce, but only to mention such thinfs as ■mil sway with the English Reader „ the amg^s jujhficatmi; and I hope to fwh a one the Good or Bad Succefskof the cafe at the Court of Koras, will not figntfy much to frove Its Jufice or Injvflice. 
And 
xij The PREFACE. 
And now to make same Observations on the Letters themselves. It may be prejumed rea fonahly., that if there had been any Thiftg in ’them that had reflebed on the Kings ho nour y nr Anne boleyn’r, they would certainly have been publijjj'd by the Papists at that very Time *, for they were in their Hands soon after they were jvritten., as appears from this Pajfage in Lord Herbert hi pry. 
When Cardinal Campegio came to take 
Ship, the Searchers, upon Pretence he “carried either Money or Letters from Eng“ “to Rome ^ ransackd all his Coffers, ' “Bags, and Papers, not without Hope, cer “tainly, to recover that Decretal Bull out “King So much long’d for. I find also (by “Some Relation) that diverse love lett$rs “betwixt our King and miftress Boleyn, “being convey’d out of the king’s Cabinet, “were sought for, though in vain *, they ha“ “been formerly sent to Rome ”. To explain this Account, if muji be fitppofed, that upon Anne boleyn’return to Courts the King perfwad§d her to let him lay up these Letters in his Cabinet, as the furejl Place to keep them from, being stole ‘.^ Jince it would have done them both great Prejudice ij they had come Abroad at the time of the tryal 
But 
w 
The PREFACE, xtij 
But this siippbfiuon does not seem fond tural as another which D, that they werb takeuy not out of the Kings, but out of Anne Bolevnh: Cabinet : This is the more 
.i ‘ 
probable because in fab they are all Letters from the King to her ^ whereas if his Cabinet had been rifled her An fivers to him would have been wore likely to be found there. It were to he wijled, that these Answers could be discovered ^ there is juf reason to expeb in them, accom* plijpd ■ Fieces bot) for Thought and Ex * prefftoti. To which the Reader will eafly a gree.^ when he looks into the jew that are Extant of htr Writing., which ate subjoin- -- in an APPENDIX;, the last of thenf indeed is by far the mof to be admired; for as the Occafon of'' it required the utmost Effort of her Mindfo nothing could be Penned m a more exalted Straini 
The Kings Letters to Atine Bdleyn were written., in all probability., immediately after her Lifmiffwn from the Courts which Was done to silence herberc<i the Clamours of the People on her Account but she was sent away in so Abrupt a manner, that fe determined to abfetit her self altogether which made the King soon Repent of his Severity, and 
C press 
XIV The P R E F A C E. 
press her to come back, but this was not obtained for a long timenor without great Difficulty *, as appears by fame of the fol lowing Letters. The Time of her Dismission was not till May, 1528, for Bib. Harl. there is a Letter extant from 3^. B. 4. Fox to Gardener at Rome, 
London, May the tt^th^ 1528, where he writes Of his landing at Sandwich, May the 2d, -- -- -- -- -- His coming that 
Night to Greenwich, where the King lay, — His being commanded to go to mi ftress anne^s Chamber in the Tilt tard -- -'. And declaring to her their Expedition in the king’s cause, and their hastening the coming of the legateto her great 
Rejoicing and Comfort -- -- -- -- Then came the 
King, to whom he delivered his Letters, 
• -- -- And opened his Negotiations -- -- -- -- -- -- - 
Then he went to the Cardinal, c. 
Soon after the Date of this Letter fie was difmifsa ^ for in the First of the Letters that follow, the King makes Excuses for the Keceffiity of their being a funder ^ and in the Second complains of her un willingnefs to return to Court. In neither of thfe is there a Word of the Sweating Sickness,, raged violently in June ^ aid of which he speaks in his Third Letter. 

The P R E F A C E. XV 
ter as of a Thing that had lajled sometime and of which he had form’d many Observations from Experience, Between this leu ter., which seems to have been writ in July, and the Sixth, which mentioning the Legates arrival at Paris, muji have been written in the End of September, there are Two Letters., which by the Earnefnefs of the bufi nefs were plainly written within a few Days of one another. Probably soon after the latter of these was sent by the King, where he expressed how much he was pleased with her an fwer to his earnejl Desire in the jyjjjf former, in the Heat of his Gratitude, he paid a Visit to his Mifrefs, in which Time they wrote a joynt Letter to Cardinal wolsey, which is added in the APPENDIX, where the ki?ig exprejfes his Wonder, that he has not yet heard of the Legate, campegiov Arrival at Paris ^ which makes it probable Ahis happened in September. The King stayed not long with her after this j for when fie had received the Car dinar s Answer, fie writes a second Letter, without mentioning the Kings being there ^ and again hews Impatience to hear of the legate’s coming, of which the King gave her the first Pews soon after, 
C 2 'But 
xvj The P R E F ACE. 
. But to return to the Fourth Letter which from all these Particulars may be fuppofea to have been written in August it it the mojl Important in all the couebion.^ for it f.xes the Time when his affebion to Anne Boleyn began,. He complains in it That he had beent above a whole Year struch with the Dart of Love, and not yet Sure whether he shall fail, or find a Place ir. her Heart and Affestion. * 
Now by the Nature of his Complaint, it is vijible^ that he pleads all the Merit that a long Attendance ■ could give him ^ ana therefore if in (lead of a Tear., he could have caud it a Tear and a Half or Two Tears, he would certainly have done it., to make Ibis Argument the fronger. It may like wise be probably concluded from the same Words, that he had not then known her much above Half a Tear ^ for it would have beet an il Compliment, in to let her understand that he had seen her same time, before he was at all in' Love wither. 
A 
These Remarks confirm the Account al teady' given, of her coming froin France with her fatherj and by that means fervt 
ti 
The PREFACE, xvij 
to Eftahlifh the King's Vindication from the Scandal thrown on Mm hythe Tapi (is. that he had no Scruples ^ about his Marriage till he saw Anne ^oleynithe manner o f the whole feemsto have been this'.^thefrench ambaffadorsobjebed to the king'smarkiage in March 152 jithis gave him Thoughts of a Divorce upon which the Lord Rochford going to France in the begin ning i?/may, was employed to get the Duchess of alansonh pibure., which he brought over accordingly in the End of that ^ 
Month. The Cardinal who was ^ ’ sent to France in the beginning of July, was infrubed to promote this Match ^ for which end he writes from France to the King to con firm him in his Scruples. But while the Cardinal was thus employed., Mifirefs Boleyn who had come over with her Father my Lord Rochford, had fijewn her self at Courts and made such hfiprefiions on the King's Thoughts that the Match iij France was ordered to be dropped \ and the Cardinal when he came ever in the End of September, knew the Reason of it from the kin^s own Mouth, probably before Mrs. Boleyn her self knew of the King's afebion for it was after this that her Correspondence with the Lord Piercy, was broke by the Cardinal at the King's Qrdeu But now that the King thought it 
would 
xvhj The PREFACE. 
would he a weans to persuade her to love him the better., he in this Letter tells her., that long before fie fufpesed it, from his firji feeing her he felt a Pajfwn for her. In this presentation I have repeated many Things said before in the Series of Matters as they happened, but I thought it hefl to lay them thus together once more in one View, 
It may be here quefioned, how the time of any particular Letter can be knozvn, fmce they have no Pate, and therefore may have keen put out of their Order. But those that will read them with any Attention, will find a Chain of Circumstances referred to, that plainly fiew thej were laid together by one that hiezv the Order in which they were Written, very likely hy Anm Boieyn her self'., and whoever stole them, as he took them all together, so zvould be eareful no doubt to keep them in the Order he found them in, that the Pifcoveries to be made from them wight be the more complete, 
it will not be doubted by any that, read these Letters, that the kings affeston to Anile Boieyn zvas ■ altogether upon honourable Terms, There appears no Fretenfion to any Fazmm\ but when the Legates fiad have paved the Way .There is so frequent mention of this, that Infiances of U zvoijld fwdi a Preface too much. There is 
but 
The PREFACE. XIX 
hut one Offence that can he taken at these Letters, which is, that there are indecent Exprejff -- ons in them. But this is to he imputed to the Simplicity and Unpolitenefs of that Age, which allowed too great Liberties of that Sort y and it muff: he ownd by his Enemies, that there are hut Three or Four of these Sallies in all the Code bion, and that there are Letters which make much more for the Kings Fiety and Virtue than those Irregularities can fully his Chara ber, 
In the Fifth Letter he tells her, God can do it if he pleases *, to whom I pray once a Day for that end, and hope that at length my Prayers will be heard, 
/ 
In the Sixth, I trust shortly to enjoy, what I have So long longed for, to god’s pleasure, and our both Comforts. 
In the Ninth, Praying God, that (and it be his pleasure) to send us shortly togydder. Surely these Religious exprejjions would have been very improper, to make an unlawful Faff on succeed. 
In the Thirteenth, speaking of the III Chara ber of one that was proposed to be made Abbess of Wilton, he writes, I would not for all the 
Gold. 
XX The PREFACE, 
Gold in the World, clog your conscience rios mine, to make her Ruler of a house, which is of So ungodly Demeanour ^ nor I trust you Would not, that neither for Brother nor Sister I should so destain mine Honour or confbi cnce.i The whole Letter is of an excellent straiuy and would have been a very improper Exhortation to one a^ainjt whose Virtue he had a Pefgn. 
The Lajl of the Letters mentions the Legates Illness as a Reason why he had not yet entera upon his Office 5, which Shows that the corre fpondence etided at leaf in May 1529, when the Process began, 
V 
There is bttt one Thing after the Letters fhat it seems very material to add here in the Kings Defence .and that is the Approbation of his Cause by the Learned Men of Europe., • 
During the Tryaly Warham and Fisher,, who were Advocates for the Queeiiy declared 
That they having been lately con rymer. Tom. Suited by the King, chad answered, 
that the king’s Conscience was disturbed and shaken, not without the weightiest and strongest reasons. 
After 
The PREFACE, xxj 
After the Legates had trifled flotfie Months and at lafl, Campegio, under a Pretence of'the Rules of the Court of Rome, had adjourned the Court for Three Motiths ^ during tt>hicb time he obtained an Avocation from the Pope the King was advised by Cranmer, not to depend lotiger on the Dedflons of the See of Rome, but to cotfult the several Univerflties of Europe, as well as his own., about the vall dity of his Marriage. 
One Crook employed in this Negotiation., and he obtained the Opinion of almost all the Univerflties whither he went, for the "Nullity of the Marriage : 
Vet he complains in his Letters that he was in great Straits from the small Allowance he had. And in an Original Bill of his Accounts it appears., that he never gave above a few Crowns to any that writ on the Kings Side ^ whereas, the Emperor gave a Benefice of 500 Ducats to one, and of 60o Crowns to another, that writ for the Qiteen. Vet, though on the one Side Men were poorly paid for their Trouble, and on the other richly rewarded, yet the moi eminent Men were universally for the King. It may lyere be added, that erasmus, whose Name was in the p^reatefl. Efleetn at that time, thoitgh he could" not be 
d Prevailed 
xxij The PREFACE. 
prevailed with to write for the King., for fear 'of the Pope, and the Emperor., in whose domk nions he lived ^ yet he went sofar as to give great Encomiums of the Worth and Virtues of Sir Thomas Boleyn, then Earl of Wiltshire, in Us Book De preparatione ad Mortem, which he dedicates to him *, and this was all the Approbation that his Circumf antes made it convenient for him to few of the Kings Canfe, 
On this general Consent of the Learned in his Favour., the King 't’oas told he might proceed to a Second Marriage., the Eirfi being of p r fii'f Kull and Void'., and accordingly 
he Married Anne Bo jeyn on the 2 5?/:? January!! 
This sort Representation ofthetranfabions relating to the Kings Canfe., with the Letters femfelves that follow, may serve to convince Boe Reader, with how little reason the Papifs infultus upon that subjeb. The Writer of this Preface has been a Witness of one Infiance of this Raillery., which is., their jltem mg these Letters 'at Rome to the English, as the fimmeful Beginning of our Reformation, put there is a frefoer one, where their Malice and Impudence appears to the Height, which they intended probably to carry on some Schemes 
that 
The PREFACE, xxiij 
that have lately proved Abortive, and that is a large Poem in Quarto., by Thomas Ward, Printed at Hamborough, 1710, where the. History of England, from the Beginning of Henry the Vlllth, to oates’j Plot is giveuy and the whole Progress of the Reformationy fcurriloufly ridiculedin Burlesque Verse, But, All these Impotent Attacks need no other Answer., 
than a juji Account of the them -- 
Celves. i - : - ^ 
L E T. 
[ ■ ] 
LETTERS 
Written by 
K. nrv/jfthe Vlllth 
T O 
Anne Bolejn. 
s 
L E T T R E I. 
Maitrejfe et Amie., moy d’ mon 
coeuy sen remettent en vos mains 9^ M n ^ 1- 1 
vous juppliant les avoir pourrecom 
mander a votre bonne grace., df. 
que par absence votre affebion northeast lew soit dl 
minue. Car pur augmenter leur pain ce feroit 
■grande pitie.^ car Vahjence leur fait ajfez, et 
plus que jamais je neuffe pense, en nous fal 
F An.. 
tel, Tant plus lohig que les Mores font., tant plus eloigne eft le soleil et non obftant plus fer vent.^ aujji fait udie notre amour., par ah fence nous fonmes eloignez, ^ nednmoins ilgarde fa ferveur au moins de notre cofte. Ay ant en efpoit la pareille du mtre, vous affeurant que de ma part V ennuye'de /’ ahfence deja m*eft troj grande, Et quand je pense a P augmentation diceluy que par force faut que je foufre, II fc eft presque intolerable, su n eftoit la fermt Espoir que j*ayf de votre indissoluble affebior vers ?noy ^ et pur le vous rementevoir alium fois cela, et voyant que perfonellement je m puis efire en votre prejence, chose la plus appro chante a cela qui ni eft pojfible au present jt vous envoye, ceft a dire ma pibure., wise et hrajfeletths a toute la devise que deja Jcavez mefouhaittant en lew place quant il vous plat toit, P eft de la main de 
Votre serviteur et amy 
Translation of L 
Y Mistress and Fstend, I and my Heari put ourselves in your Hands, beggins 
[ 3 ] 
otto let Absence lesssen your affestion to us For it Were great pity to increase our Pain, which Absence alone does Sufficiently, and more than I could ever have thought ^ bringing to my Mind a Point of Astronomy, which is. That the farther the .Mores are from us, the farther too is the Sun, and yet his Heat is the more Scorching ^ soit is with our Love, we are at a distance from one another, and yet it keeps its Fervency, at least on my Side. I hope the like on your Part, assuring you that the uneafiness of Absence is already too Severe for me, and when I think of the continuance of that which I must of necessity Suffer, it would Seem intolerable to me, were it not for the firm hope I have of your unchangeable affe dion for me ^ and now to put you Sometimes in mind of it, and Seeing I cannot be present in person with you, I Send you the nearest thing to that possible, [that is, my Picture Set in Bracelets, with the whole Device, which you ' know already, wishing myself in their Place, when it shall please you. This from the Hand of 
^' Your Servant and Friend, 
H. Rex. 
^ This is a literal trotjlation of this Sentence but the mean 
[4] 
wm¥'wmmm‘wmmwwwsw0wmwwmmmm 
L E T T R E II 
A HI a Maitreffe, 
P OUR ce qui ftit, femhle le temps eftre Men ^ long depms avoir ouy de votre bonne fan te.j de vous. La grande affetlion que fay vers vous m a perfuadh de vous envoyer ce por teur pour efre mieux ajfertene de votre fante volojith.^df pour ce que depms mon partement de avec vous., on tri a averty que V opinion en quoy je vous Idijfoye eft de tout afeure change., <df que vous voidie^ venir en cour ni avec Madame votre mere ny autrement aussi, Lequel ra port ejlant yray, je northeast fauroy ajfez emerveillier veux quf depuis je rp ajfiire de vous Eavoir jamais faite faute, il me semble hien petite retribution pour le grand Amour que je vous por te de me eloigner CV la perfotme le perfo 91 age de la femme du monde que plus f efli me^ (IF fi., vous ni ayme& de ft bonne affeeh on comme f efpere\ Je fuis sure que la eloigne ment de notre deux Personnes' vous feroit un peu ennuyeufe, toute fois qtlil n appartient pas tant a la Maitreffe comme au serviteur, pensez bien ma Meflrejfe que /* ahfence de vous fort me grief efperant qilil tie ft pas votre vo lontf qiw amjtce soit., mats Ji je entendoy pur 
\ ^ ^ r # ^ /\ / y ^ ^ ^ 1 ma J ^ mm m ^ ^ ^ 
[ 5 ] 
non puis md.is fair ft non pld.mdre nidi tnau^ vaife fortune en rehauant peu a peu ma grande foul., & ainsi faulte de temps say fin de ma rude Lettre fupplyant de donner foi a ce por teur a de quil vous dir a de ma part, Efcrit de la jtdain du tout votre serviteur, 
I 
Tranfiation n L E T T E R II 
4 
To my Mijfrefi., 
DE C A U S E the Time Seems to me very ^ long, since I have heard from you, or concerning your Health ^ the great Affection I have for you has obliged me to Send this Bearer to be better informed both of .your Health and Pleasure, particularly because since my last parting with you, I have been told, that you have entirely changed the Opinion in which I left you, and that you would neither come to Court with your Mother, nor any other way *, which report if true, I cannot enough wonder at, being persuaded in my own Mind that I have never committed any, Offence against you ^ and it seems a very small return for the great love I bear to you, to be kept at a distance from the Person and Presence of the Woman in the World that I value the most •, and if you love me with as much Affection as 1 hope you do, I am Sure the distance of our Two pcrsons would be a 
[6] 
little uneasy to you. Tho’ this does not belong So much to the mistress as the Servant. Confider well, my miftress, how greatly your Absence grieves me j I hope it is not your Will that it should be So j but if I heard for certain, that you yourself desired it, I could do no other than complain of my ill Fortune, and by Degrees abate my great Folly, and So for want of time I make an end of my rude Letter, desiring you to give credit to this Bearer in all he will tell you from me. Written by the Hand of your entire Servant. 
iiitttttiittiitititttttti 
L E T T R E III 
J ’ entluye que j^avois dii doubte de votre fan ^ th me troubla <& egarra beaiicoup^ et Eeuffe efe gere quiete sans avoir sue la certainth., mats piiifque iiancors 71 avez rien fentu.^ f efpe re qiiil eft aomme de nous. Car nous eft ant a jvaltan., deux vuftyres, deux verses de vham hre., votre frere mefter Treforere ont tomb malades (IF font d afture de tout sains ^ nous fious sums reboutes envotre me fons de Hondfon, la on ious ?ious sums bie?i trouves., sans aucun malade pour fteure.^ dieu soit hue., et je petife que ft vous vous voulez re tirer du lieu du Surye, comme ious fmes, vous le pafferez Cans datwer. aufifi unp. rmtvp. 
C 7 3 
chose vous pent comforter., car a la verite com me il vift., pen ou nujie same out este fnalade et que encore plus efl nul de mfre Cort CIF peu aiueurs en meimt., par quoy je vous supply ma entiere aymee de non avoir point de peure., nz de noflre ahfence vous trap ennuyere. Car ou que je foye, votre fuis, non ohfant il faut alcune fois a telles fortunes oheyer. Car qui contre fortune veut luter en tel endroit eji bien souvent tatit plus eloigne, par quoy recomfortes vous et soyez, hardy., et vuidez> le mol tant que vous pourrez, Et f efpere bientot de vous fair chanter le renvoye non plus pour afeure de fau -- tfdu temps., ft tioti que je vous fouhaitte entre mes brass., pour vous ofer ung peu de vos dear fonable penses. Efcrite de la main de iceluy^ 'qui eji et toujours fera votre 
amiable. 
I 
. ■- #■ — _ _ -- -- -- -- - 
Trmfation of LETTER III 
uneasiness my Doubts about your, * Health gave me disturb’d and frighted 
me extremely, and I should not have had any quiet without hearing a certain Account. But now since you have yet Selt nothing, I hope it is with you as with us, for when we were 
at tvaltan. twoitshpr? t xxrn t7}/jlatf 
[ 8 ] 
and your Brother Master treasurer fell ill, and are now quite well and since we are returned to your house at Hondfon., ''wt have been perfectly well, God be praised, and have not at present one sick person in the Family 5 and I think if you would retire from the Surry fide, as we did, you would escape all Danger. I'here is another thing that may comfort you, which is, that in truth in this Distemper few or no Women have been taken ill, and besides, no person of our Court, and few elsewhere have dyed of it. For which Reasons I beg you, my entirely beloved, not to frighten yourself, nor to be too uneasy at our Absence. For where ever I am, I am yours, and yet we must Sometimes Submit to our mis fortunes, for whoever will struggle against Fate, is generally but So much the farther from gaining his end, wherefore comfort yourself, and take Courage, and make this Misfortune as easy to you as you can, and I hope shortly to make you fing for joy of your recall. No more at present for lack of time, but that I wish you in my Arms, that I might a little dispell your unreasonable Ishoughts. Written by the Hand of him who is, and always will be yours 
my H. Rex Lovely[ 
[ ] ^ 
^ O O ni a ^ o •«> ^’y r ^ 

L E T T R E IV 
jc A dehatmit de par moil conteniie de vos Letters me fuis mis en grande agonte nort fchachard. comment les entendre ou a mon defa v ant age cothme en des aiicunds autre s je les entendrej vous suppliant de Men bon coeur me vouloir certifiere apprefent votre intention enth ere touchant V amour entre nous deux. Car necefjttc me contraint de pourchaffier cette re ponce.^ ayant efle plus qvtung annee atteinte du dard d amour non eft ant afiltre de faliere oil tmouver place en votre coeur dh affebioru Certain le quel dernier point in en a guard depuis peu temps en a de vous point nommer ma mai trejfie avec ce qiie ft voiis northeast m aymes P autre fortj que d' amour commune yn.lis fdl vous plait de fair /’ office d’ ime vraye loyalle me fires dh' Anye.^ df de vous dormer Corps d Coeur a moy qui veus eftre da este votre tres loyal serviteur (ft par riguer northeast me de fend of') je vous promes que non feulement le nom vous fera deu.^ mais aussi vous prendray pour met Mefrejfe en rebutt ant tres t antes autres aupres devous hors de pense dv d' affebion., S" de vous feulement fervire Vous suppliant me fair en tiere response a cette ma rude lettre a quoy df €n Quoy me piiis Her & northeast vous plait de trie 
[ 
fair response par efcrite^ affeure nioi quelque lieu la ouje la pourroy avoir de bouche., df js my trouveray de bieti bon coeur. Non plus de peur de vous enuyer, Efcrite de la main de celuy qm volontiers de meureroit votre 
/ 
Tranjlatioti n' L E T T E R IV 
T? Y turning over in my Thoughts the contents of your last Letters, I have put myself into a great Agony, not knowing how to understand them, whether to my Disadvantage, as I understood Some others, or not ^ I beseech you now, with the greatest earnest ness, to let me know your whole Intention as to the Love between us two. For I must of necessity obtain this Answer of You, having .been above a whole Year struck with the Dart of Love, and not y et Sure whether I shall fail, or find a Place in your Heart and affedion. This Uncertainty has hindered me of late from naming you my mistress, since you only love me with an ordinary affedion but if you please to do the Duty of a True and Loyal mistress, and to give up yourself, Body and 'Heart to me, who will be, as I have been your most T, ovnl .Servant _ Sif 
[ n ] 
your Rigour does not forbid me) I promise you that not only the Name shall be given you, but also that I will take you for my mistress, casting off all others that are in competition with you, out of my Thoughts and Affestion, and Serving you only I beg you to give an entire xvnswer to this my rude Letter, that I may know on what and how Sar I may depend. But is it does not please you to an swer in Writing, let me know Some Place, where I may have it by Word of Mouth, and I will go thither with all my Heart. No more for fear of tiring you. Written by the Hand of him who would willingly remain Yours, 
II Rex 
L E T T R E V 
E V etrene ft belle que nen plus (not ant le tout) je vous remercy tres cordialement n07t feulemej^ pour le beau Diamatide CV na -- Eire en quoy la feulette Damoifelle ef tourment man principalement pour la belle interpretation., df trop humble fubmijfon, par votre benignite en cette cafe use, bien pensant, que meriter ce la per occasion me feroit sort ciifcile.^ ft me rt eftoit en ayde votre grande humanite df faveur 
is I yv t rtl 1 ri y 1a aia y. A 1a rtmm A 1a .■% A 1a a am a 1a a 
ay par toutes bontes a moy pofjibles dy demeu -- fer en quelle monefpoir a nils fon ininmahle intention qui dit., aut illic aut nuilibi.l^r demon jlrances de votre affebion font telles., les belles mots de lettre ft cordiallement couches qui m obligent a tout janmis vrayement de vous honour er., aymer CF servir, vous suppliant le voii lotr continuer en ce mefme ferine confant proposyjous affeurant que de nia part je /’ aug menteray plufot que la fair reciproque.^ ft loy auth du coeur le peut avancer.vous pkiant aussi que ft aiicunement je vous ay per cy devant off'eijce que vous me donnez la mefme absolution que vous demandes., vous affeurant que r/’ oranavdnt a votes feule mon coeur fern dedie.^ defrant fort que le corps ayif pouvoit.^ dmt le peut fair f luy plaita qui je supply ririe fois le ]our pour ce fair. Lfperant que a la long ma.. priere fera ouye ^ defyrant le temps bref., pensant le long jufques au reveiie d" entre nous deux, Efcrite de la main du Secretere qui en ifoeur.^ 
• Corps df Volonte ef 
Votre loyal plus affure serviteur, 
stitre cherche 
Co] 
ft 
♦ 
LETTER V 
P O R a present So valuable that nothing ^ could be more (considering the Whole of it) I return you my most hearty Thanks, not only on account of the costly Diamond, and the Ship in which the Solitary Damsel is tos fed about but chiefly for the fine Interpretation, and too humble Submifiion which your goodness hath made to me. For I think it would be very difficult for me to find an Occasion to deserve it, if I was not astisted by your great Humanity and Favour, which I have sought, do Seek, and will always Seek to preserve by all the Services in my Power j and this is my firm Intention and Hope, according to the Motto, Aut illic aut nullihl^ (either here or nowhere). The Demonstrations of your Affestion are Such, the fine Thoughts of your Letter so cordially expressed, that they Oblige me for ever to Honour, Love, and Serve you sincerely, beseeching you to continue in the same firm and constant purpose I) and affiuring you, that on my Part, I will not only make you a Suitable Return, but out do you in Loyalty of Heart, if it bo possible. I desire you asso, that if at any time before this I have in any sort Offended voq. von would vive me the same Absolution[ 
[ 
which you ask, assuring you, That hereafter my Heart shall be Dedicated to you alone, I wish my Body were So too, ' God can do it if he pleases, *, whom I pray once a Day for that endi ^ hoping that at length my Prayers will be heard I wish the Time my be short, but I shall think it long, till we shall See one another. Written by the Hand of the Secretary, who in Heart, Body and Will, is. 
Tour loyal.y and mojl ajfured Servant., 
H. no other seeks Rex. 
* 
LETTER VI oainal. 
o 
THE Reasonable Request of your last let ter, with the Pleasure I also take to. know them, causes me to Send you now this Newes. The legate, which we most desire, arrived at Paris on Sunday or Monday last past 5 So that I trust, by the next Monday to hear of his Arrival at Calais : And then I trust, within a while after, to enjoy that which I have So long longed for, to god’s Pleasure, and our both Comforts. No more to 
C 15 ] 
lake df Time but that I would you were in myrie Arms, or I in yoursfor I think it long since I kyft you. Writne after the Killing of an Hart, at XI of the Clock : Minding with god’s Grace tomorrow, mightily tymely to kill another, by the Hand of him, which I trust shortly shall be yours, 
####### 
L E T T E R VII original 
tpjarling, tho’ I have fkant Leisure, yet re membring my Promise, I thought it convenient to certify you breeyly, in what Cafe our Affairs stand. As touching a Lodging for you, we have gotten wone by my Lord cardinal’s Means, the like whereof could not have been fond hereabouts for all Causes, as this Bearer shall more show you. As touching our other Affairs, I ensure you there can be no more done, nor more Diligence used, nor all manner of Dangers better both foreseen and provided for, So that I trust it shall be hereafter to both our Comforts, the speci aliities whereof were both too long to be Writne, and hardly by Meste user to be de 
[•6] 
dared. Wlierefor till you repaire hydder, 1 keep Sorriething in Store, trusting it Shall not be long to. For I have caused my Lord your Father to make his Provisions with Speed. And thus for lake of Time, Darling, I make an end of my Letter, writing with the Hand of him which I would were yours 
, A iris 
E T T R E VIII T 
^eanmoins qvl Papanlene pas a tmg genttu ^ ^ homme pour prendre fa Dame ait lieu de Servante toute fois en suivant vos defirs vo iontiers le vous dutroyeray fit per, cela vous puf ftes trouver moms ingrate en la place per dous choyfie, quiave^ efie dn la place par moy aoif men vous merciant treficordiallement fit wus plete ancore avoir quelque fiouvenance de moy 6. N.R.J, De. R. 0. M. V C Z. 
isent^ ^ 
\ 
[ A ] 
Tranjlation n L E T T E R VIII 
H O’ it does not belong to a Gentleman to take his Lady in the Place of a Servant, however in following your Desires I willingly grant it, that So you may be more agreeably in the Place that you your self have chosen, than you have been in that which I gave you. I shall be heartily obliged to you, if you please to have Some remembrance of me. 6. N. R. I. de. R.O.M.V.E.Z., 
Henry, Rex, 
L E T T E R IX Original. 
\ 
HE Cause of my Writing at this time ^ (good Sweatheart) is wonly to understand off your good Health and Prosperity, whereof to know i would be as glad as in manner mine awne, praying God (that and it be his pleasure) to send us shortly togy der, for I promise you I long for it, howbe it, trust it shall not be long to, and feeing my Darling is absent, I can no less do, than to send her some Fleshe representing my Name, 
[ i8] 
which is Harts Flcshe for Henry prognosticating, that hereafter God willing you must enjoy Some of mine, which if he pleased I wolde were now. As touching your Sisters Matter I have caused Water Welche to write to my Lord mine Mind therein, whereby I trust that Eve shall not have Power to deceave Adam. For surely whatsoever is said it cannot so stand with his Honour, but that he must needs take her his natural Daughter now in her extreame Neceshty. No more to you at this time mine awne Darling, but that with a Wishe I wolde we were togyder one Evening with the Hand of your 
L E T T R E X 
fois ma Mejires qii*l jie voits fleu de souvenir de la promejje que voits tie sites quant je eftoy dernierement vers vous.^peft a dire de fcavoire de vos bonnes noiwelles ^ de fcavoire refponce de ma derniere Lettre, northeast anamoins time femhle qml appartienne an vraye serviteur( ( que autrement zl northeast pent rien Sc avoir) d’ envoyer fcavoire la salute de fa 
n rr rt 7- ♦ > ts nr 7 
[-9] 
Serviteur je vous envoye cette Lettre, vous Suppliant de me avertir de voire Frofperith, la quelle je prie a Vbieu qu il soit aujji long comme je voudroy la mienne dh' pur vous fair en Corps plus souvent souvenir de moy, je vous en voye par ce porture ung boucke tue hier soir bien tarde de ma main: Efperant que quand vous en niangerez, il vous fouvimdra du chajffeur ainji a faute d^efpace je feray sin a ma Lettre, efcritb de la main de votre serviteur qui bien souvent vous fouhaitte au lieu de votre frere, 
Translation t^letter X 
A Lthough, My mistress, you have not ^ been pleased to remember the promisc which you made me when I was last with you, which was. That I should hear News of you, and have an Answer to my last Letter • yet I think it belongs to a true Servant ( since otherwise he can know nothing) to send to inquire of his Mistresses Healthy, and for to acquit my self of the Ostice of a True Servant, I send you this Letter, begging you 
O O tr\ 
to give nie an account of the State you are in, which I pray God may continue as long in Prosperity, as I wish my own •, and that you may the oftener Remember mei Send you, by this Bearer, a Buck killed late last Night by my Hand, hoping when you eat of it, you will think on the Hunter and thus for want of more Room I will hnake an end of my Letter. Written Jby the Hand of your Servant, who often wishes you in yiaur brother’s Room. 
H, Rex, 
-■ * 
L E T T R E XL 
^vprochant du temps qin m.d.. fi longement dure me rejoyd. tante qicil me femdle presque deja venu, Neamnoins Ventier accomplif. fethedif tie fe perfera tatit que les deux personnes fe fjfemblent,. laquelle Affemhle ejl plus deftre eh. hum endroit qm nulle chose monddine., far que rejoyement peut efre fi grand en ce mbnde comme d avoire la company de cell qui‘ ef la plus cheer amye, sachant aujji qidelle fait la paretlle de fan coat, la hanse du 
7 • - 7. J ^ • 1 ^ 
C 
fern le personage Vahfence du quel ma fait plus grand mal au coeur que ni langue ni d criture peuvent exprtmer., que jamais autre chose excepte cela peut remedier.^ vous fupplk ant ma Mefitiejfe de dire a Monsieur voire peer de ma part que je luj prie d'avancer de deux jours le temps affine qu'il peut ejire en Court devant le vieille term, ou au moins fur le jour prefifche., car autremenl je penferay qvcil northeast feroyt point Le tour des amoureus qiiil du soit ni accordant a mon expesation. Non plus diafleure de faulte de temps. Efperant bien tote que de bouche vous diray be rest des peines par moyen votre absence foufenues, Efcrite de la main du fecretere qui fe souhaite d*afeure privement apres de vousqui ejl qua jamais fera 
Votre Loyal & plus - asture Serviteur 
autre IIS cherche 
‘ .0^: ^. ■ '. \, /.■ ■ Tranflatidn L E T T E R XT. 
tfle of the Time which J have 
So long Wpeded, rejoyces me So much, 
the entire Accomplishment cannot be till the two Persons meet, which Meeting is more desired by me than anything in this World ^ for what Joy can be greater upon Earth, than to have the Company of her who is my dearest Friend? knowing likewise that she does the same on her Part, the thinking on which gives great Pleasure. You may judge what an Efed the presence of that person must have on me, whose Absence has made a greater Wound in my Heart than either Words or Writing can express, and which nothing can Cure but her Return : I beg you, dear mi ftrefs, to tell your Father from me. That I desire him to hasten the Appointment by two Days, that he may be in Court before the Old Term, or at farthest on the Day prefixed *, for otherwise I shall think, he will not do the lover’s Turn, as he Said he would, nor an fwer my Expectation. No more at present for want of Time •, hoping shortly that by Word of Mouth I shall tell you the rest of my Sufferings from your Absence. Written by the Hand of the Secretary, who wishes himself at present Privately with you, and who is, and always will be. 
Tour loyal.y and moji 
ajfured Servant 
H. no other 
[ ^3 1 
L E T T R E XII 
^oiwelles me font en mil foudonement ve~ 
** ^ nues les plus deplefantes qui me pour roient avenir. Car pour trots Causes touchant icelle faut il que je laments : la premiere pour entendre la Malady de ma Meftreffe., laquelle je ejlime plus que tout le monde la fante de quelle je dejtre aiitant comme la mienne ^ ' volotvtiers porter la moitie du votre pour vous avoir guery. La seconde pour la crainte que jay d ejlre ettcore plus longuement prejfe de mon ennuyeux abferts qiii jufques icy nta fait toute Ventime a lui pojftble., quand encore puis juger dh' deliberer de pys fairs., pri ant Lieu qu il men defajfe de ft importune re belle. La troifmne pour ce que le medecin en qui plus me fie efl abfens afieure quant il me pour roit plus grand plaisir. Car j*efpereroy par luy 
& fes moyens de obtenir une de mes pkmcipales joyes en ce mondecefi a dire, ma Meftrejfe guerie, Neanmoins en faute de luy je vous envoy e le seconde & tout, priant dieu que bu entot il vous peut render faine, et adunques je vaymeray plus que jamais, vous priant etre gouverne par fes avis touchant votre Malady, en quoy faisant j’ efpere bientot vous revoire 
mill ^jt> j?? 
. [ ] 
pierres pretieufes dumonde. Efcrite du fecre^ tere qm efiy a f am As fera 
Votre loyal plus 
affure Serviteur, 
tranflationofleti: E.K XII 
HERE came to me in the Night the most affliding News poshble. For I have reason to grieve upon three Accounts, ift^ Because I heard of the sickness of my mi strefsjwhom 1 esteem more than all the World, whose Health I desire as much as my own, and the half of whose sickness I would willingly bear to have her cured. Alj;, be cause I fear I shall suffer yet longer that tedious Absence which has hitherto given me all postible uneafiness, and as far as I can judge, is like to give me more. I pray God he would deliver me from So troublesome a Tormentor. The third Reason is, because the Physician, in whom I trust most, is absent at present, when he could do me the greatest pleasure. For I should hope by him, and his Means, to obtain 
nnp' n f rmr nrinrinal Tmrc in flllq Wnrlsl. tlltt* 
1^5] 
Js. my miftress cured 3 however, in .Default of him, I send you the .Second, and the only one left, praying God that he may Soon make you well, and then I shall Love him more than ever. I beseech you to be governed by his Advices with relation to your illness by your doing which I hope shortly to see you again, which will be to me a greater Cordial than all the precious Stones in the World. Written by the Secretary who is and always will be, 
Tour Loyal and moji 
Ajjured Servant ^ 
LETTER 'Kill. Original. 
QIN C E your last Letters, mine avrn dar ling. Water Welche 'tad.&qx Brown John care Trion of Brearton^ John Cocke the Pothecary, be fallen of the Swett in thishouse^ and thankyd be God all well recovered, So that as yet the Pleague is not fully ceased here *, but I trust shortly it shall by the Mercy of God 5 the rest of us yet be well, and 
1 trrifl' naltp it prt lipr nnt tris nr 
[»6] 
it the least as €afily as the rest have doii* As touching the Matter of Wylton^ My Lord Cardinal hath had the Nunys fedfore him, and examined them. Master mu being present, which hath certified me, that for a Truth, that She hath confested herself (which ive would have had Abbelfe) to have had Two Children by Two Sundry Priests ^ and furder, since hath been keeped by a Servant of the Lord that was, and that not 
long ago. Wherefor I would not for all the Gold in the World clog your Conscience nor mine to make her Ruler of a House which is of so ungodly Demeanour ^ nor I trust you would not, that neither for Brother nor si ^er^ I should so dcftain mine Honour or con feehce : And asitcucbang the Pryorefie, or Dame elleni^s Eldest Sister, tho’ there is not any evident Cafe proved against them, and that the pryorelte is foold, that of many Years she could not be as she was named ^ yet notwithstanding to do you pleasure, I have don that neither of them shall have it, but that Some other good and well disposed Woman shall have it: Whereby the House shall be the better reformed (whereof I ensure you it had much need) and God much the better Served : As touching abode at he^ef^ do therein as best shall like you, for you know best what Air doth best with you 5 but I wold it were come thereto ( if it plea 
LI ^ ^ J \ ^ ^ 1^ — I » •: • ^ ^ J ^ w ^ W 
C nl 
that, fer I ensure yoirl think it long, Smhd. 
falleii fiek of the Swett, and therefore: L send yon this. Bearer,, because 1 think youi‘ long to hea3| tydings; ftoin ns ^ as we do io; hkewifofroin ypu, wrmng With the Hand, 
De votve seul'. '. ■ : 
(of Yours only) 
1 .v *! 
LETTER XW. ort^nat. 
JA RLIN G, these shall Be only to ad vertife you, that this Bearer, .and his Fellow, be dispatched With as many Things to compaffe dur Matter, and to hrihg it tp paste as dur Wits could imagine dr devise, which brought to paste,, as L trust by their Diligence it,, shall be, shortly you and 1 shall have our destred End, which should be mpre to my Hearts. easc, and more Qiiietneste iny fdinde, than any pther Thing in this World; as with Gods Grace shortly I trust, shall be; proved, but not So Toon as I would it were, yet I will ensure you there shall be pa iyme lost, that may he wone, and further cannot be done, Pox ultra posse non 'hfl ete: : 
9%' \ ^ I ^ 1^ V V ft ft t Am jy«i.4«v4^ 
[’8] 
him for your Sake to make the more Speed, for 
the Sooner we shall have Word from him the 
sooner shall our Matter come to paste •, and 
thus upon trust of your short repair to lotiion, 
I make an end of my Letter Mine awne Sweete 
heart. Writne with die Hand of him which 
delyreth as much to be yours ?Ss you do to 
have him L ' 
... «'■ 
^ ■ "if' '*•. « 
L B r T E r XV Original. 
. ' L N : L _, ■; - VQ ■: 
A R LING, I heartily recommend me to ^ you, alsertaining you, that .1 am not a little perplexed with Such Things as your Brother shall on my part declare iinto you, to whom I pray you give fil Credence, for it were too long to write. In ndy last Letters I writ to you that I trusted shortly to see yoii, which is better known t London than with any that is ^bput me, whereof I not a little mervelle, but lake of defcreet handling must needs.be she cause thereof No mlire to yoii at this time;, but shat I trust shortly, our Meeting shall not depend upon other Mens light Handlings but 
\'. f '' it - '.if ■. ‘ 
. nnnfi 
C 29 3 
u|on your awrie. Writne with the Hand of his that longeth to be Yours, 
V V 
% 
* 
I. .•. - "i 
LETTER XVI Original. 
* • * 
1^ Y N E awne Sweetheart, this shall be to adyertise you of the great ellingness that I find here finee your departing, Tor I enfiirc you, me thinketh the Tyine longer since your departing now last then I was wont to do a whole Fortnight ^ I think your Kindness and my Fervence of Love causeth it, for otherwise I wolde not thought it possible, that for 10 little a while it, should have grived me, but now that I am coming toward you, me thinketh; my Pains been half released, and also 1 am right well comforted, insomuch that my Book maketh firbstantiaily for my Matter, in writing whereof I have Spent above ini ■ Hours this Day, which caused me now write the shorter Letter to you at this time, because of forac Pain in my Head, wishing my self (Specially an Evening) in iny sweet hearts Arms whqfe pritty puckys I trust shortly to 
I ] 
lylte. Writjig with the h^n4 of him that was, is, and shall be youys by his will,. 
TETTER XVII Original. 
d -, N • ^ ’ : ■ V. 
O inform you what Joy it is to me to undctflandof your gonformabkness with Eeafone, and of the foppreffing of your inutile and vain Thoughts and Fantasies whh the Bridie of Reafonj I ensure you alt the good of this World could not counterpoise for my fa t|sfad: ion, the'knowledge and Certainty thereof wherefore good Sweetheart, continue the same not only: in this, but in all your Doings hereafter, for thereby shals come both to you and me the greatest Quietnefle that may be tri this World. The Cause why this Bearer, staly e|h so loogv is the Bufinesh that 1 have had to drelte up Cker for youj which I trust; ere long to see you occupye, and then I trust to occupy yours : which Shall be recotdpence enough to me for all my'pains and Labours. The unfayned Sickness of this Welhwilfihg Legate doth foinewhat retard his Accelfe. to ydstp Person, but I trust veryly, wshen God shaft 
[u3 
cond^encfe his Demurr^ Lof I know well where he hath Said (lamenting the Saying and brute that he shall be thought Imperial) that it shall be well known in this Matter, thath© isnot lmp^l. And this for lake of time farewelli Writne with the Hand which nine would be yours, and So is the Heart. 
w... •, 

t, " ', 
X 'i. * • ' 
‘I ' ^ 
- ** -! 
I f i t • • ' 
'* ‘ i ’ 
\ .- 
■. !ii.n«i'! Ill.. i.^j»h»tu>ii"rmip(iiiir n II iii.ni, i,, i ii ^ 
0 ■ 
'[ u J 
■ Vpp eiidi XI 
■ ^ V;; ■■ \ ■;; : .'. 'c ^. ... ’ 
-- -- -- -- — -^^ -- -- -- -- -- V: : ^ ^ -- -- -- ■■ 
LETTERS 
rn «-> f;.. .’T 
^ • i' ^ '■ • -■ V ^ _ 
C, -; FROM 
Anne Bolejn ^ 
T d 
Cardinal WOLSEY. 
LETTER I. 
tv/fy Lord, in my ihoft hum hist. Ref. blessed wife that my Heart can 
Part I. p. 55. think, I desire you to Pardon me that I am So bold to Trouble you with my simple and rude Writing, esteeming It to proceed from her, that is much desirous to know that your Grace does well, as I per 
hx/ fliic that xmn An. tirvnrli 
[ n _] 
I pray God long to continue, as I am most bound to pray ^ for I do know the great Pains and Troubles that you have taken for me both Day and Night, is never like to be recompensed on my Part, but alonely in loving you next unto the king’s Grace, above all Creatures living. And I do not doubt but the daily Proofs of my Deeds, shall manifestly declare and affirm my Writing to be true, and I do trust you do think the same. My Lord, I do affure you I do long to hear from you News of the Legate 5 for I do hope and they come from you they shall be very good, and lam Sure you desire it as much as I, and more, and it were possible, as I know it is not : And thus remaining in a steadfast hope, I make an end of my Letter written with the Hand of her that is most bound to be, 
■■ " ............. 
■ A..., ■. •> 
• •• - • 4* • •.. ' ' 
Pojlfcrip hy K, HENRY. 
‘ i :; V 
The Writer of this Letter would notceafe. 
till she shad caused me iikewife to fetito nay Hand defilring you, r though it be short to take it in good part. epshre you there ds neither of us, but that greasty desireth to see you, and much more joyous fv hear that you shave Scaped .shis Plague sh well, trusting the; Fury thereof to be pattedi Tpeciaily with them 
nrr^rvrl oc. T mn rlo. 
Cul 
not hearing of the legate’s Arrival in France, caufeth us Somewhat to muse,, we trust by your Diligence and Vigilancy (with the Afiistance of Almighty God) shortly to be eased out of that Trouble. No more to you at this time ^ but that I pray God send you as good Health and Prosperity as the Writer would. 
By Tour 
Loving Sovereign and Friend Henry K, 
Tour Humble Servant Anne Boleyn. 
L E T T E R II 
Y Lord, In my most humble wise that my poor Heart can think, I do thank your Grace for your kind Letter, and for your rich and goodly Present, the which I shall never be able to deserve without your Help, of the which Shave hitherto had So great Plenty, that all the Days of my Life I am most bound 
^ S? 11 mr • * 
35 3 
love and Serve your Grace, of the which I beseech you never to doubt, that ever I shall vary from this Thought as long as any Breath is in my Body. And as touching your grace’s trouble with the Sweat, I thank our Lord, that them that I desired and prayed for are shaped, and that is the King and You •, not doubting but that God has preserved you both for great Causes known alonely of his high Wisdom. And as for the coming of the Legate I desire that much •, and if it be god’s pleasure, I pray him to send this Matter shortly to a good End, and then I trust my Lord, to recompense part of your great pains. In the which I must require you in the mean time to accept my Goodwill in the stead of the Power, the which Inust proceed partly from you, as our Lord knoweth, to whom I beseech to send you long Life, with continuance in Honour. Written with the Hand of her that is most bound to be. 
Tour Humble and Obedient Servant ',, 
Anne Boleyn. 
... quee^i 
C 1 
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 
_ __ ____ s 
een Anne Boleynh Lafl Letter u 
King Henry. 
■ ( ' ■ 
SIR, ^ 
Y OUR grace’s Displeasure,, 
of T gnd my Imprisonment, are. 
‘ Things So strange unto me, as what to Write, or what to excuse, I am altogether ignorant. Whereas you send unto me (willing me to confess a Triith, and so obtain your Favour) by Such an one whom you know to be mine ancient professed Enemy •, I no Sooner received this Message by him, than I rightly conceived your Meaning *, and if, as you Say, confessing a Truth indeed may procure my Safety, I shall with all will lingnefs and Duty perform your Command. 
But let not your Grace ever imagine that your poor Wife will ever be brought to acknowledge a Fault, where not so much as a Thought thereof preceded. And to speak a Truth, never Prince had Wife more Loyal in all Duty, and in all true Affection, than you have ever found in Anne Boleyn, with which Name and Place I could willingly have contented my self, if God, and your grace’s Pl.=^qrnrp hppn fn nf="ither did I at 
C 37 3 
on, or received Queenshij), but that I always looked for Such an Alteration as now I find, for the ground of my Preferment being on no surer Foundation than your grace’s Fangr, the least Alteration, I knew, was fit and Sufficient to draw that Fancy to feme other Subject.. have chosen me, from a low Estate, to be your Queen and Companion, far beyond my Desert or Desire. If then you found me worthy of Such Honour, Good your Grace let not any light Fancy, or bad Councei of mine Enemies, withdraw your Princely Favour from me j neither let that Stain, that unworthy Stain of a Disloyal Heart towards your good Grace, ever cast So foul a Blot on your most Dutiful Wife, and the Infant princess your Daughter: Try me good King, but let me have a Lawful Trial, and let not my sworn Enemies sit as my accusers and Judges yea, let me receive an open Trial, for my Truth shall fear no open shame ^ then shall you see, either mine Innocence cleared, your Suspicion and Conscience Satisfied, the Ignominy and Slander of the World stopped, or my Guilt openly declared. So that whatsoever God or you may determine of me, your Grace maybe freed from an open Censure, *, mine Offence being so lawfully proved, your Grace is at liberty, both before God and Man, not only to execute worthy Punishment on me as a unlawful Wife, but to follow your Astedioh 
[ 3§ 3 
already fettled on that Party, for whose sake I am now asnl am, whose Name I could some good while fiince have pointed unto; Your Grace being not ignorant of my Suspicion therein. 
But if you have already determined of me, and that not only my Death, but an Infamous Slander must bring you the enjoying of your desired happiness ^ then I desire of God, that he will pardon your great Sin therein, and likewise mine Enemies, the Instruments thereof j and that he will not call you to a strict Account for your unprincely and cruel usage of me, at his General Judgement seat, where both you' and myself must shortly appear, and in whose Judgement, I doubt not, (whatsoever the World may think of me) mine Innocence shall be openly known, and Sufficiently cleared. 
My last and only Request shall be. That myself may only bear the Burden of your grace’s displeashre, and that it may not touch the Innocent Souls of those poor Gendemen, who (as I understand) are likewise in strait Imprisonment for my sake. If ever I have found favour in your Sight ^ if ever the Name of Anne Boleyn hath been pleasing in your Ears, then let me obtain this Request j and I will So leave to trouble your Grace any further, with mine earliest Prayers to the Trinity 

[39] 
nity to have your Grace in his good keeping, and to direst you in all your Astions. From my doleful Brifon in the tow£r this 5th of Inajt* 
Tour mojl Loyal and ever \ Faithful Wifi^ 
annboleyn. 
FINIS. 
