THE HISTORY OF 
L A U R A, 
HAND SOME R MIL 
In six Lelters. 
Written by the celebrated Mrs. ROW, Author of th.q Letters from the Dead to the Living, 
Letter I. 
From Laura to Aurelia; first inveighing agatinll the pleasures of a rural life, then reprdfenlitig her brother a an Infidel; and giving an aceoount qf .his 'lyftem of t'ranfmigjation; cohcludirig with her dislike of his feheme, andherunwil lingnefs to renounce her profpc6i; s of an immortal state, 
, II 
Xo the same, giving an account of her brother’s criminal passion for Charlotte, his peculiar treatment of her, and, her detestation both of him ahd hisithpious conversation. 
Letter III 
To the same, giving' an icccuhit of her being reconciled to a rural life, and her adventures with the Handfoma Hermit.' 
'Letter IV 
To the same, giving her a relation of a second uitit which she paid to the Handfbrne Hermit, in company with her brqthci’s mistress, the disconsolate Charlotte; and the et ffcfts which his virtuous deportment had upon her; of her Encere repentance for her past follies, anstster earnest so licitatiopsto be freed from the power of hct licentious lover, • 
Letter V 
® ♦ '* 
To the same, e, iving an Bcceiaut hf chadottc’silricece repentance, and her u.nclfe’s reception of her into his favour and / pioteftidn thereudon. tn the conclusion (he .gives hdr a a coiitiaijamce of her conference‘with tfiie Handsome Hermit who foretells his approaching fate, and endeavours to convince her, that the hopes of Christianity are no delusions' ' ' 
VI. 
No the same, relating the death of Philocles, the Haudfume. Hermit, accort'ng to biis ow n predis^tiqn; and of the important eff'. of it, wz her absolute conversation from her foi'tner infidelity, and her iisanhelirf of a life everlasting. 
A MO R ET to C O R SI G A. 
A poetical epistle from the ihfehnal region, to conviti^e the fair unbel.ever of the certainty ofia future' state, and to’ foiewarn her of the torments prepared for'thofe'^ho die without a sincere contrition andiurrow for, their sins. 
At No. 28, Great Tower Street, londotf. 
LETTER PRESS 
PRINTING 
Is neatly performed with Accuracy and Expedition, 
on m oderaie Terms', viz. 
Shop - Bills, G. 
Of this Size, (and Paper) printed for Three Shillings and 
Sixpence a Thousand: : 
finer Paper for four Shillings and Sixpence a 
thcnsand : 
Larger and friialler Bills at proportional Prices, 
K .y •• _ 0 
C A R D S ( 
XI 
Elegantly Printed for 
J Two Shillings 160, ^ 
^ Eight Shillings for 500, J 
> 4 
p Fifteen Shillings 1000. ^ 
As the above Prices are nearly 
Eight Shillings in the Pound lower 
Than usually charged by other Printers, 
Earneji will he required, 
^ COPPER PLATES neatly Engraved and 
Printed on reasonable Terms. 
Six LETTERS. 
Erom La, ORA to Aurelia. 
('From Mrs.; rowe’s Letters.) 
isiving an account of her hrothefs.amour, and her own 
passion for the handsome hermit. 
L E T T E R I. 
My dear Aurela^ 
COULD your importunity have prevailed with my brother to shave left me in London, you had been free from the vexation that 1 shall certainly give you, by making you the confident of all my country adventures; and I hope you will relieve my chagrin, by telling me what the dear, bewitching, busy world is doing, while I am idly launtring away my time in rural shades. How happy are you, my dear Aurelia I How I envy you the enjoyment of dust, of crowds and noise, with all the polite hurry .of tste beau monde! 
My brother hrouglit me hither to see a country •feat he has lately purchased. He would fain persuade me it is finely Situated; but I should jthink it more finely fitiiated in the Mall, : Or even; in Cheaplide, than here. Indeed I hardly know 
A 2 shhere 
L 4 J 
V 
where we are; only that it is at a dreadful distance from the Theate drury-lane, from the Opera, from the masqerade, and everything in this world that is worth living for. 
I can scarce tell you whither to direst your letters We are certainly at the ends of the earth, on the borders of the continent, the limits of the habitable globe, u, nder the polf among wild people and Savages. I thought we should never have come to the end of our pilgrimage; nor could I forbear ashing my brother, if we were to travel by dry land to the Antipodes. ' Not a mile but Seemed ten, that carried me from London, the centre of all my joys. 
The country is my aversion;; bate trees and hedges; steep hills and stlent valleys. The la tyrist may laugh; but to m, e 
r 
Green fields and shady groves, and crystal Springs, And larks, and nightingales, are odious things; 
•* - ■ *. W '. • 
>- I. » 
I had rather hear London cries, with the rattle of coaches, than, sit listening to the melancholy murmur of purling brooks, or all the wild music of the woods. The smell of the violets gives me the histerics : fresh air murders me; my constitution is not robust enough to bear it, * the cooling zeyphyri will fan me into a catarrh, if! stay here much longel ' '. 
1c • .u.. C - 
If 
( 5) 
If these are the seats of the muses, let them unenvied enjoy their glittering whimsses, and converse with the visionary beings of their own forming. 1 have no fancy for di yades and fairies, nor the least prejudice to human Society; a mere earthly beau, with an embroidert d coct Suits my taste better than an aerial lover with his stiining treffesand rainbow wings. 
The Sober twilight, which has employed So many Soft descriptions, is with me a very dull period; nor does the moon (on which the poets dote) with all her starry train, delight me half So niucii as an assembly room, illuminated with wax candles. This IS what I stiould prefer to th: glaring liin. in bis meridian Splendour. Daylight makes me sick; it has Something in it So common and vulgar, that k leerns fitter for peasants to make hay in, or country lasses todpin by, than for the use of people 
of distinctiom 
» ■* / 
You pity me, I know, dear Aurelia, in this deplorable state. The whole creation is a blank tome, it is alljoylels and deshlate. In wdialever gay images the muses have dressed th^se rustic abodes, I have not penetration enough to discover them: not the flowery field, nor spangled Iky, the rosy morn or balmy evening, can recreate my thoughts. I am neither a religions, nor poetical enthufiast; and without either of thefequalifications what shovld I do in filent retreats, and pensive Piades. 
'....._ ■ I 
( 6) 
I find myself little at ease in this absence of the noisy diversions of the town. It is hard for me to keej) up my Ipirits in ieisure and retirenr^ent. It makes me anxioussy inquisitive what will become of me when my breath flies away. Death, that ghastly phantom, perpetually intrudes on my lolitude; and in some doleful knell, from a neighbouring steeple, often calls upon me to Tumioate on coffins and funerals, graves and gloomy Icpulchres. these dismal subjects put me in the vapours, and make me start at my own stiadow; nor have I acquired any great degree of fortitude by turning freethinker, and unlearning. 
All that the nurse and all the priest have taught. 
Pop€. 
You have been too often of our party, not to know that my brother is a very infidel. He has a Sort of a vanity in making me proselyte, and freeing my mind from those prejudices (as he calls them, and Superstitious notioiis which govern a great part of the world. But as he finds me a imle unwilling to resign my immortality, he has furnished me with a System of transmigration, and the eternal wandering of the Soul from .one Species of being to another 
However, I do not find myself a gainer by renouncing my creed, which allowed me to hope, that after the period of this mortal life, I might be an angel, or at least equal to those bright essences( 
() 
hut by this fantastic Scheme, to which my brother is making me a convert, my pretentions are Sunk : the utmost I can expect, when I have shifted my present existence, is to grin in a monkey or look deniure in a broad faced owl, or to sit a chattering magpie in a bush. It is a chance among which of the animal race I am to be numbered : whether I shall mount the air with the winged inhabitants, or crawl upon the earth among my brother reptiles, or graze in the meadows among the horned tribe. Indeed I have no great stomach so grass of hay, and as little inclination to sseep in a den, or stretch my airy bulk on the dewey plain but as it is yet uncertain, whether I am to stalk or sty, or swim; I am still at a loss which of these various elans to greet as my next kindered. 
However, I am better pleased with being what I am, than anything elfe. I had rather be a celebrated toast, stuttering at a ball among beaux shd pretty fellows, than the most gaudy butterfly with painted wings, hovering over a bed of tulips. If this should be my ensuing fate, it will be a mortifying decent from a goddess to an insect. 
And really there is Something so gloomy and uncomfortable in these prospects of futurity, that if I constder them much longer, I shall turn Christian again, in defiance of my brother, and a learned unbeliever his companion, who are perpetually ridiculingmy concern about a visionary hereafter as they term it. 
Indeed 
{ 8) 
Indeed this volild be the least of shy cares, were I not extreshely it lei Sure; but as I ash, it is iinpossih'e for me to avoid being folicitoiikwhat fate attends me, when I resign this transitory life: lur I must certainly die; I am mortal beybh'd contraditlion; this truth sits heavy oh shy Soul : there is no ssying its evidence, nor does this plave afford any ashuseshent to dwelled the gloomy ressesiion. If I should mvn devotee, you would think it a more wonderful metamorphosis, than any I havsh yet nashed. But in all changes I am constantly 
Yoiirs, c. 
Laura. 
P. S. I have a secret tc) tell you concerning my brother, which you shall know in my next letter; for I am as impatient to discover it, as you can be to hear it. 
r ‘ ■ ^ 
LETTER II 
f 
I Have too much confidence in my dear Aurelia, conceal anything from her; nor can it be an injury to niy brother to trust you with his charader and know him to be as great a libertirje in his practice as his pi inciples, 
r 
■ S -■ 
( 9) 
But in whatever freedom he has indulged hirnfelf, I must own he has always endeavoured to give me a just fense of honour, and the decorum due to my iex. While he has taken pains to free me from the restraints of religion, he has left nothing unsaid on other motives, that might raise in me the tenderest concern for a.clear reputation, which made me the more resent his Scandalous condufit, when I found he had a mistress in his house, whom he had Sent hither two or three days before we came. I knew not what to do, nor how to behave myself in this exigence, till I found she was rather an objesl of compashon than reproach; * and that she came hither not to indulge an infamous amour, but to shelter her (elf from want, and the resentment of her relations. 
She told me the story of her misfortunes, as well as the distress and confusion she was in would permit; and, ashing me a thousand pardons, ingenioussy owned she had engaged my brother to bring me with him, or not to follow her. 
p • '. 
I found her education had been strislly modest, and that she was unacquainted with the vicious part of the world. She is hardly sixteen;; name Charlotte; the only child of a noted citizen, who was utterly ruined in his affairs by a crafty Jew. From the height of credit the poor man found hirnfelf sunk into circumstances of disgrace and indigence. 
B. This 
( 10) 
This was a melancholy turn to Charlotte justin the vanity of youthful expectations to find her feist from the affluence of fortune. So Suddenly reduced to poverty and contempt. My brother, whom stie had Sometimes Seen with her father, but knew nothing ost his character, took this unfortunate crisis to tempt her with rich presents, and fair promises, to leave her friends, and to retire to Some private lodgings he had got for her. 
In this diftractioti of affairs, her father being under an arrest, and all his effects Seized, she was Surprised into a compliance with my brother’s proposal;; did he give her time to reflect, or consult any of her relations; who had soon got intelligence nf this, dishonour,, and Sent her a Severe Injunction to see their faces ^10 more. 
This cruel meftage, with the fatal tidings of her mother’s death that followd, and the full evidence that she was deluded by my brother with feigned promises of marriage, had almost proved fatal toher life : nor could any argument allay her forrowy till her distrested lover engaged 
never 
( } 
t 
never to ask any Suture favour of her, but what the nicest virtue might grant. On this condition. She engaged to go to his new Seat in the country; for indeed she had no other refuge. He has kept his prornife; she lodges in my apartment, and is treated by him with as much decency as if She was his lister. 
I never thought such a libertine would ifcurn Platonic : stis an unusual refinement, and, I believe, the first gallantry of this kind he ever practised. But he has an esteem, a tenderness for her, of which, by his difsolute manners, I always thought him incapable of. 
Her behaviour is really modest;. nor was there ever a more natural imprestion of truth and innocence, than appears in her face. Her too credulous temper, and unexperienced years have betrayed her ipto this state of Shame and misery;; which, tho’ too late, she Seems exquisitely sensible. Since I began this letter, she came into my closet, and, with a stood ofitears, begged me to contrive someway; tofree her from this dangerous place. 
B 2 Bpt 
\ 
( 12) 
But whither, She' Said, = can 1 fly? ‘0 My friends will never receive me; 
nor have I the confidence to hieet their reproaches. My crime has Sent a “tender mother weeping to the grave; “it loads my father’s hoary head with a ‘‘ heavier weight of fbrrow than all his other misfortunes. Love was not my excuse;; am yet a Stranger to that passion;; was a cowardice, it was a fear of poverty, a criminal distrust of ** celestial providence. I should have begged, I should have starved, rather than parted with my innocence on Such ** mercenary terms. However stneere my repentance is, it can stgnify nothing with regard to the world. The scandal will never be obliterated". I must ‘‘ either face the public contempt, or ‘‘ waste my days in a joyless obfeurity. 
Put my condition in the best light : “would this false man, as he promised, “marry me; whatapprobious language, “what terms of infamy, must I expect iri his intervals of chagrin! Besides this, the impiety of his conversation terrifies me, while I hear him make a jest of those sacred subjects for which I have 
■’ — " ■' been 
4 
( 13) 
been taught the highest veneration. I should live much happier with a wild ‘‘ American.” 
/ 
I made no reply; the reafirning was too just to admit a contradiction. But this melancholy instance makes me more than ever resolved not to lurrendcr, nor even capitulate, on any terms. But those of a lawful English wife. 
Adieu ^ 
Laitra. 
I V 
i / • •. 
LETTER III 
WHAT mutable things we are! You ' will be Surprised to hear I am grown fond of the county, and have a re list! for its harmless delights. I can talk to an echo, or listen with great attention to a purling stream, I am in a fair way to make garlands, invoke the muses, and write pastorals. Since you heard lasl frorn me, I have met an agreeable adventure, that had given a Sort of romantic turn to my imagination. 
B f ^, • 
As 
\ 
( 14) 
As I was taking my constant diversion of riding on the downs, the evening being exceeding pleasant, I wandered some miles beyond my usual limits, till I came in sight of a venerable pile of building, which could not be distinguished from a 
^ O ^ 
church, by nothing but the want of a steeple; everything had about it an air of grandeur and antiquity. At some distance from the house there was a thick 
i' 
wood, with Several line walks cut through' it. 
I had a great inclination to ramble in those agreeable shades: : alighting, ordered my footman to wait at the place where I left him. It was not long before I came to the centre of the forest, in which was a large grafs plat of circular figure, with a double row of high elms, growing in the same Sorm round it. In the middle of the green was a little mount, that, by easy steps of turli had a winding ascent to the top; where stood an harbour of jellamine, woodbine, and roses, twisted together with a sort of elegant disorder. The gaudy blostoms pleased the sight, while their mingled Sweets perfumed the 
ambient air. On the lower branches of the 
•• " * ■ -, 
.circling 
( 15) 
circling elms, hung Several gilt cstges, with a variety of singing birds in them, which were now chanting their evening songs, while a musical flagellet in clear and shrill refponses, answered from the delicious arbour. 
*» 
I began to think indeed there was such things as enchanted forests and vocal groves, or that the great Spirit of nature was Solacing itself in those innocent abodes. However, female curiosity led me on, till I came to the charmino^ bower: where I found a well drested youth, of about Seventeen, sitting with a stagellet in his hand. His complexion was a lively brunette, that disgraced the lilleys and the roses: : dark hair fell in large and graceful curls below his neck; nothing could be more elegant than his stiape and features; nor was there any such thing as meeeting the Splendour of his eyes without being sensible of every darting glance. 
I made some apology for my intrusion;; he answered.. an easy civility. Nor could I perceive (hat my presence gave him the least surprise or confusion, He received me 
with 
I ^ 
/ X 
: I 10 j - ^ 
■ ^vith perfect composure, nor Seemed have any manner of cunohty, to know whence I came, or whither I was going j nor, to my great mortification, did he aik whether I was a mortal or a ooddefs. 
O “
It gave me some uneasiness, I confess, tofindmy Self no more an object of Surprise to one who perhaps had never Seen anything so fine in his life : for I was in a very rich habit, blazing with Scarlet and gold. You cannot imagine how it humbled my vanity, to observe with what indolence and tranquillity, the young insensible looked at me; and the more, because he did not seem to want wit or politeness I was extremely vexed, that at three and twenty, he treated me with as much indifference and respect, assis I hadbeen his great grandmother. 
I 
This sedateness gave me a curiosity to pry into his flu dies; for I saw two books lye near the place where he sat. When I opened them, I found one was, A discourse of the governrnentof thepaliions the other, A treadle of tiie imnioriaiity of the soul. I had nothing to lay on thole grstve Subjects; but, after some formal 
diicourse 
i A) 
discourse of the fine sit nation of the place, I took my leave of it; the young philolbpher attended me to the limits of the wood, where I left my Servant; and there we parted, without any Seeming reluctance on either fide. 
But I own I had a reliefs curiosity to know the history of this lovely youth, and to whom the house belonged. Nor was it long before I received fatisfaaion, from a clergymar^ that was riding the same road with me. He said“ “manston “was Sir Harry Lizard's, a man of nierit, “and well acquainted with these world f at which he was now unreasonably disgusted, and grown solitary, on account of the death of his eldest Son, to whom he had given a liberal educa tion, and with a generous allowance. Sent him into Italy; where his time was Spent in the most difsolute manner; ‘‘ till being unhappily engaged with a “lewd woman, in a sttofjealoufy heshot “hirnfelf through the head. This “tragical event made Ste Harry resolve to give his younger Son a quite distererit education. Indeed his character is 
, t 
entirely reverse of his eldest brother’s, 
C he 
i i8 } 
“he is remarkable for his early piety, ‘‘ and great profieiency in all Sorts of “learning, having a very polite and ‘‘ ingenious person for his tutor. But Philocles, that is tsie young gentleman’s “name, has too great an allay of gravity for his early years, and is of so retirea a temper, that he is known by the title of The handjome hermity as he is indeed very handsome.” 
X 
Here the clergyman left me, overjoy’d with this intelligence. As soon as I got home, I related my adventures to Charlotte; who gave me little attention, being as I told you, in the utmost anxiety at the manner of life to which she was confined. L am, dear Aurela, 
Mojl sincerely yours, 
Laura. 
’r L E T T E R IV 
I *, • ^ • 
Since you received my last letter, I have taken another ramble into Sir Harry lizards forest. My brother knows nothing of this adventure. And the first 
afternoon 
( 19) 
asternoonllound him engaged, I persua dedcharlotte togowith me: who was glad iof any pretence to fly from her own gallant though she expressed but little curiosity to see mine. 
At the enterance of the grove, we left the Servants to wait with our horses till we returned. In my first visit I perceiv’d by Philocles's diseourse, that when the evening was fair, he constantly Spent it in the charming bower; where we now found him reading Dr. young’s True Estimate of human Life, with such attention, he did not immediately See us, and Seemed Surprised at the encounter. 
It diverted me, to find his philosophy discompofed, I began to flatter myself it was the effect of my charms. The hopes of fuchaconquest delighted me more than all my past victories. It gave a Sudden vivacity to my thoughts; and resolving by my wit to Secure the conquest by my eyes, I began with great gaiety to rally him on his recluse manner of life, and losing his gayest hours in a joy less solitude. 
G 2 By 
. ' ( 20) 
t 
By this iime the youngltoichadafrum’d his natural Superiority; and instead of replying, as i expected, in a gallant and modish strain, he talked to me of the Satisfactions of virtue, the tranquillity of the mind in the redfitude of its pastions: themes, which from another person would have composed me better than a dose of laudstnun. But here, 
— -- -- The grave rebuke, 
Severe in youthful beauty, added grace 
Invincible -- -- — — — 
«’ \ 
Like the fallen angel in Milton, 
-- -- - — — — abashed I stood. 
And felt how awful goodness is, and saw 
Virtue how lovely in her native shape 
■ ■ ■■ ■ < 
glory that darted from his eyes, the agreeable accent, the moving: eloquence that stow’d from those rosy lips, command dead my whole attention.had be preached a Sermon, 1 could have patiently listened to the blooming orator. 
'. - K 
— From morn to noon. 
From noon todwey eve, a Summers day. 
• ' Milton. 
And yet I could not forbear Sometimes laughing at his gravity, and begging he 
^ would 
/ 
( 21); 
would put hirnfelf into holy orders. But he was not to be rallied out of his Sobriety Nor could I possibly draw front him that flattery, with which till now I had been addreued. He Seemed rather to have an inclination to humble my vanity. 
Charlotte, the whole time. Sat in a pensive silence, while the tears, which Ihe strove to conceal, would Sometimes drop from her eyes. Philocles, in every paule of conversation, Surveyed her with looks that exprefsed great humanity : but I was in no dispolition to be jealous osany thing I looked on so inferior to myself. 
However, my’’ concern to conceal this affair from my brother, made me break off the conversation a little abrubtly, that we mio[ht be at home at the usual hour. 
O' 
As Soon as ever we were got alone, I aslced Charlotte, how she liked the handsome hermit. “Oh (Said She with a tender “emotion) that I had never Seen him! Till now I was not fenlible osthe injury this barbarian your brother has done me. He has cut me off from all the lawful joys of life, from the pleasure of a reciprocal affection for a man of V worth and virtue. : With my innocence “I lost a right to that happiness. What! 
'S am I a prostitute! a kept mistress!! ^ ■ brother’s^ — — O infamy! your brother’s 
wh — e fi’. ' ' If 
** ' 
s ^ - 
, 
'( 22) 
/ 
I 
( If you had not been that, said I, Charlotte, you had been a beggar.” 
O envied title! She replied, O glorious Poverty! thou hast been the “choice of saints and heroes; virtue has S' made thee her Sanctuary, her peaceful retreat, I could have fed on wholesome“ “; quenched my thirst at some crystal brook, indulged my harmless stumbers on the verdant turfi 
, !5; : r 
undisturbed with guilty Sears. Pardon me, Said she, recollesiing hcrfelst these passionate Sallies. I find myself more than ever undone, condemned to waste 
my days in Sullen obscurity;; the pride of life, the bloom of Soft desires“ 
“languish in Solitary despair. My conscience' will not Suffer me to gratify an unlawful pastion; nor should any “advantages, were my guilts a Secret, persuade me to impose on a man of worth. I have been true even to this rake that has undone me, and frustrated A all my hopct of a lawful happinefs.’' 
t 
“That is, niy brother has Spoiled your ** itiarriege, laid I. But, dear Charlotte,, why Should that thought afflict you, 
'■' who intend to pafs your future 
“time 
( 23) 
time in penitence and retirement? has the handsome hermit altered your ** pious resolutions ?” 
“No, She replied) he has rather con“ “them. Never had the cause of virtue a more reliftless advocate. Me“ “I See the beauty that lightens in his face; I hear the charming accent “still; I felt the energy of his argument; my soul gave itg full accent to the celestial dictates. I wondered vou could “so often interrupt the graceful orator ' with your ill timed raillery. I could “have listened to his lecture of morality “till the midnight dews had fallen, till the stars had fet.” 
\ 
** Dear Charlotte, said I, forgive this interruption; I stnd you are in love. ‘‘ My intention is entirely frustrated, of having your picture drawn as the Fair Penitent, with a lamp and prayer book “before you. I perceive you design yet‘ “toconverseamong stnsul mortals. Will you go with me tomorrow to hear another lecture from the charming divine? 
Rather 
( 24) 
** Rather. Said She, let me retire to the blent grave, to conceal my insamy. I “vi^ould not deceive him with an air of innocence, while I am confeious of my own difhonori I know myself; this is the crisis of my misery;; can obliterate this Secret sense of Shame. I “may retire from the public view, as it i my full resolution, but what is a resolution at sixteen?? pecu liar affifiance from Heaven, I shall northeast“ “conquer the didlates of love and “nature, in this perplexity, I muss either “marry Some worthless wretch, that knows my infamy, or deceive Some “man of merit, to whom it is a Secret. 
Here fly burst into a stood of tears, entreating me to write to an uncle She had to receive her into his Savour, and let her live in his family. This I promised; nor despair of prevailing. My concern for her makes me forget it is time to Subscribe myself 
Your humble servant 
Laura, 
LETTER 
K ^5) 
LETTER V 
oharlotte, to her great /atisfaftion, has this morning left us, and is gone toher Uncle; who was easily persuaded to receive her, after he was assured of the sincerity of her penitence. But I found it a harder talk to prevail with my brother to, resign the idol of his assehions: though he lost nothing by her absence, but the pleasure of gazing on her. 
I am in pain till you know the Sequel of my adventure with Philocles; who, ssnce 1 writ lall, has Several times, by appointment, met me in the delicious hower; but still, to my great vexation, he appeared insensible of any tender impression. I could difern nothing in his Conversation, but a pious design to convert me to Christianity, and convince me of the folly of the new Scheme to which my 
brotherhadmade me a proselyte,,, 
* ‘ ■ • • * 
. •' '* ' - 
But the lass; time we met, I observed a soft confusion in his looks, till after a long pause, (which I had no mind to interuptjj “I am going (said he) to fet myself jna “very ridiculous light to one of your charaher : but .1 “am content to pafs for an enthufiass, till the event con“ 
“you of the truth of what I shall relate. 
* 
“If a domestic tradition may be credited, there has no “person died out of our family, but what has had a “warning of their approaching^tate,. by hearing music“ “through the house in the dead silence of the “night; which is bear’d by none hut the person con“ 
“My mother and filler both foretold their own “death from this presage. I see you smile, (continued “philoclesj; biit I have the same warning, and. am 
D fupcrhitious 
( 26) 
*• 
fuperstltious enough to credit it. Last night Some tri fling difprder kept me waking; my thoughts, however, “were placid and serene: : verses 1 had heard my filler repeat in her last sickness, came fresh into my “memory. 
‘‘ While night in solemn triumph reigns, 
Affcend, my soul, the heav’nly plains; 
“Thy flight to those gay regions take; 
“Angels and God are still awake, 
"The smiling stars will light thy way *' To the gladsome realms of day, 
While drowsy men with idle themes, 
“Fantastic joys, and airy dreams, 
“Are eritertain’d; do thou converse ‘‘ With heav’n, and heav’nly strains rehearse i ‘L Visit the peaceful climes above, 
“And through the fields of pleasure rove; 
Forget the scenes of care and strife. 
And, walk among the trees of life: 
Taste the rich fruits of paridife, 
“And bathe in flowing streams of bliss“ 
“in those eternal springs, 
Lose every thought of mortal things, 
■ ■ • ' - i < - V ‘ ■ ' ' ' ' 
** Just as I had repeated these verses, I was Serenaded by an invisible musician, with the sweetest strains that ever delighted mortal ears. The harmonious echo “Seemed to pafs from room to room, till it came into my “chamber; where, after a short space, it sunk away in “a gentle cadence. 
, f 
“f khew my obsequies were now sung, and heard the “fatal summons without surprise. Death was a theme “familiar to my thoughts, as I never expefled or desired“ “reach the decline of life”. 
I listened to’ this story as to a fairy tale, or a sort of waking dream'. As gravely as he' told it, I could not 
forbear latighing. ‘ - “This 
'' 
( 27) 
‘j_this, Madam (Said he) is what I expesied: but it “will hot make me less serious on a subject of fucst im “portance. You have often rallied me on a manner of life of so unsuitable to my years. Perhaps it may be “more the effefl of reason than inclination. My brother’s “tragicar end convinced me of the fatal efsefts of love, “and made me resolve never to admit that diftrafling “passion to my breast. But whatever opposition 1 have “made, my heart has not been insensible of your charms, “nor with all my philosophy sufficiently guarded against “the allurements of love and soft desire. Even now, “when I find myself disengaged from every other care, “I have the utmost solicitude for your happiness. L am “distressed to leave you in this state of infidelity; for “this is the last interview we shall have, unless I am “premittest to make you a visit from the immortal regions, “in order to convince you, that the hopes of Christianity “are no delusion“ 
“proposal (Said I) charmes me. There would he “no relisting such evidence. I hope you will prove a “ghost of honour, and not fail the assignation : which on “my fide Shall be punctually kept, on condition you “appear in open daylight, and dressed in your celestial “finery. With these circumstances I may venture to prornife you, neither to run away, nor to fall into fits. 
“The place of your reception (though not perhaps fuit“ “to your future dignity) Shall be a painted alcove “fronting a walk Shaded with limes at the end of my. 
“brother’s garden.” 
^ • •* 
“The gaiety (replied Philocles) with which you treat ‘ ‘ this subject, persuades me you have courage enough to “be as good as your word; which is the last and only “favour 1 have to ask. I must now bid you farewell, and, in the reiirement of my closet, prepare to make my “exit with a fortitude becoming those sacred principals “to which I have adhered.'*’, D 2 Heri 

C 28 ] 
Here, : with a tender confusion in his looks, he abruptly left the place, and gave me leifu' e To reflefl on the odd conversation that had passed. But as visionary as Some part of it appears,!, would fainhelieve the lost confession he made is no ssflion; for I find myself excessively in love. But this fhass be a Secret to the young enthufiass, till he has got over the Splenetic fit; which, as whimsical as it appear gives me a secret uneasinefs He has certainly infefted me with Some religious panics. I have lost my taste for every kind of diversion, Company is molesting, and solitude tiresome. self refleslion distrasls me. Whether I look Ibrward or backward, the prospect is all eqnfufion. But I Shall expose myself, by owning these weakiielses to one your charauer. 
Adieu, 
Laura. 
/ 
< 
L E T T E R VI 
r 
OH, - my Aurelia! I have surprising things to tell you The lovely Philocles is dead. His prtfageswere too certain. About a week after our last interview, I heard the melancholy tidings, that Sir Harry Lizzard had lost his only Son by a fuddea death, / The charming youth was impatient of mortality, and is gone to converse with his kindred angels. 
You will wonder to hear me treat those fubjehsferioussy which I have rediculed. It is a change that I myself can hardly credit. I never imagined my inclinations were So tenderly engaged, nor that any kind of adversity could have hiade Such an alteration in my temper. • 
• ' " After ■ 
« 
( ^9) 
After the first emotions of grief were over, I recolefled the appointment we had made; but rather wished than believed such an interview possible. However my mind was prepared for conviction. I began to reason with Cato. 
>, ■ i i ' 
..... If there’s a' Power above, 
He must delight in virtue; « 
And that which he delights in, must be happy. 
I found myself now interested in the truth of Christianity. The firm belief of a life everlasting, would, in this exigence, have been my greatest consolation. My hopes and fears prevailing by intervals, and kept me in the most tormenting suspense, while I waited for the decisive hour. As soon as it came, without any consternation, I attended at the appointed place, 
i 
i 
It was a charming retreat, where art and luxurious nature displayed their various beauties. The evening was. still; the fun in golden Splendour defending to the western Skies, glittered through the trees. Everything looked gay; new life and beaiity aippeared, oil all the yernal; profpe6f; the plants put on a frestier green, the flowers displayed a brighter hue, and diffused ambrosial tragrancy. ' Nature Seemed animated with confeious joy, as gladdened at the approach of fomd heavenly power. 
i • ' ' 
An unusul alacrity Inspired my thoughts,, and Soothed my soul with a Secret delight; while a Soft melodious sound,, rising by just degrees, filled the region round with transporting harmony. 
In the height of these agreeable agitations; as the rosy morning breaks from a cloud, the charming Philocles stood apparent before me. There was Something in his aspebl So Serene and bencficiant. Such a fvveefeness and. 
^ affability 
*% 
(30) 
affability, that banished every thought of fear, and filled my breast with divine tranquillity. Ineffable pleasure Sparkled in his eyes : youth in eternal, triumph sat on his brow, and painted his face with rosy bloom. His temples were circled with a wreath of celestial roses, which were mingled among his flowing hair with a Sort ofornaiuental negligence. / 
After a short pause, he began with a voice that would have allayed the anguifhof death, and charmed the wildest discord into calm attention: every accent breathed celestial love and harmony, while he described the bowers of bliss, the soft recesses and mansions of immortal pleasure. 
But it is impossible for me to paint the beautiful ideas, or imitate the emphasis of his language. The powers of eloquence sat on his tongue, and commanded all the mo stons of my soul, which at that blissful period Seemed enlarged in its Superior faculties; every word was penetrating and significant, his manner perfectly graceful and transporting; in his difcriptions I saw the glories 1 felt the joys of immortality. But in the midst of my attention to the Sparkling oiator, I could not help observing, that he often cast his eyes on the shadow of a dial, which wavs placed on the top of a little marble pedestal, on which, with a becoming gesture, he leaned with his right hand, 
I fancied his time was limited; for at the last glance I saw him cast on the dial, he yanissied, and with him all my joys. 
Thismomentry view of the celestial beauty has obscured all earthly glory. Never will the fun disclose a Scene of pleasure to my sight; the vanities which lately amused me, have lost their charms; my thoughts are fixed on superior objehs; a divine and immortal ardour inspires my soul, and determines all its motions. With the evidence 
( 31) 
dence I now have of the future existence, my notions of happiness are lefinedand enlarged, my hopes bright and unlimited. 
Adieu my dear Aurelia I I am not without hopes, that this relation will have the same effect on your prasuce, as the heavenly vision has on that of. 
ma dam, 
Your mojl humble few ant ^ 
Laura. 
A M O R E T to C o R I S C A, 
\ 
From the black regions, from the mournful plain, Where horror in eternal triumph reign; 
From the low caves of hell, and dens slight, 
Far from the frontiers of celestial light: 
This from the wretched amoret receive. 
And at my cost these dreadful truths believe : 
That ’tis no fiction pious men adore, 
But there’s indeed ajust almighty pow’r; 
That human spirits after death survive. 
And to indeterminable ages live; 
That fields of light, and blessed ethereal plains, 
Are no conceits of visionary brains; 
But there are happy bow’rs, and shades of love. 
With pure exhaustlels springs of joy above; 
Immortal crowns the vi\|^ous to reward, 
And glorious triumphs for the just prepar’d, 
Nor question the surprising truths I tell. 
While I the secrets of the deep reveal; 
For hell is no enthufiastic dream, 
No statefman’s tricks, nor poet’s fab’lous theme : 
No pious fraud, or mercenary lie 
Of subtle priests, to gain the conscience by, 
Tis all toofadly true which they maintain. 
And far beyond whate’erthe poets feign Of streams of liquid fire, and burning lakes, 
Infernal gibbets, and eternal racks, C 
Gorgons, chimaeras, furies, and their fnacks, 
( 32 
; Nomortal can a just conception frame, 
Nor find for halt the terrors here a name, 
Then Ihun the flow’ry paths that downward tend; To hell they lead, and in damnation end. 
Fly from the fnaresofthat enchanting sin, 
Whose fatal joys have my perdition been. 
Like thee, with all the pride of beauty gay, 
In loose delights, I lately Istent the day; 
Like thee accomplilh’d, and like the admir’d, 
, My eyes the savage and polite infpir’d. 
whene’er I spoke, my wit new conquest won; Thousands came here, by my soft airs undone. 
With wild surprise my alterm looks they view, 
And with loud curses still my flight pursue' ' 
learn, before too late, licentious fair. 
Each face does here aii. equal horror wear,, 
And urtdiftinguifti’d youth and age appear.'',,, depriv’d of ev’ty charm, and ev’ry grace,, ■ 
We all descend to this detested place. 
Illustrious Helen, once the greciain pride, ', ' 
In folding shades her hated form would hide : \ 
And conlcioiis Thais fears to be defery’d. •, 
I saw them lately, by the trembling gleam, : 
The pale blue light of inauspicious flames; 
No blush paints their cheeks, their wanton eyes No more with love’s contagious darts (urprife. 
Rash Cleopatra mourns her hasty doom. 
fam’d Julia thro’ the crowd’s no longer known; 
ev’n ovid’s eyes her blamed charms disown. 
curs’d be the arts that did my soul betray. 
And lead my easy virtue first aftr^y 
’tis past— — my repentance comes too late. 
But thou may’ft yet avoid this cruel fate. 
Perfidious beauty, quit the roads of vice; 
Its smooth defents to certain death entice. 
Like Dives, from th’ infernal coasts I send, 
To warn my careless unbelieving friend; 
For tjiou, while yet a lovely guiltless maid. 
To sin, by my example, waft betray’d, Arid fhould’stthouto these mournful regibris come, i’twould vastly aggravate my heavy doom. 
- ' * V : F I N i B.: ■' 
