MASQUERADES 
OR,
WHAT YOU WILL\

BY THE
^ i
AUTHOR OF ELIZA WARWICK
\
FOUR VOLUMES.
«
V O L I.
/
LONDON
Printed for J, B E W, in p4ter«nofter row.
MDCCLXXX*
V

s
V
«•
•4
^0 Lady Louisa syoney.
■ morfmtr llalh
My amiable friend judged very properly
in Supposing my time wouldbe So much engrossed by the tumult which generally attends the vt^eddings of great peopley that I should hardly find a moment to dedicate to the more pleasing calls of my louisa. — It has'really been the cafe my Sprightly Sister has shared much of the public admiration, and was So exceedingly caressed that she had hardly time, to breathe; and I must have been of her parties, or have appeared deficient either in the exact rules of politeness, or (what is worse) in those of tenderness for
I B one
4
2 MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
one who deservedly claims every affectionate Sentiment from me.
How easily are the most volatile Spirits cast down! — who could have conceived, that changing a name, and travelling eighty or ninety miles from the Smoky region of London, to a place that Seems formed in a ‘‘‘ Prodigality of naturev would have worked any cffecl on the naturally gay disposition of our Caroline! — and yet, believe me, for the first two or three days after our arrival here, she appeared dejected, melancholy, and So uneasy as to be often in tears. However, she is once more herself, which we are all much pleased at, as it penferofa di\xs of a mad ona by no means become her.
Our journey was a very agreeable one. Lord Mortimer carries his head at least two inches higher than usual: he Seems to be quite happy, andpiever glances at his cara without turning his eyes about, to see who envies him. He certainly shines as a Benedick, nor does the part of Beatrice fail of occurring to my remembrance, when lobserve caroline’s droll, yet good-natured manner of treating him. Hearts linked by affection so firmly as theirs have been from their first acquaintance, give us every reason to
hope
  3
hope that their felicity is built on a permanent foundation, and that they will be an example of conjugal happiness to a licentious age, that requires Such a pattern.
Though we are advancing hastily towards the end of autumn, this place is yet beau sul — The prospects around are uncommonly fine — the house itself is large and commodious — the construction very old-fashioned, which I do not distike — Your antique buildings always fill my Soul with a pleasing kind of awe.
Our neighbours are in general very agreeable: we are daily Surrounded by 3 number of belles and beaute; among the former are the two Miss Pol worth’s (who were much celebrated last winter), and Mrs. Armiger, whom you so greatly admired, at a card party we were invited to, one night at Mrs. nelfon’s. Sir James Westbrook, Lord Budenall, and Mr. Montague, are at present visitants of lord Mortimer. The gentlemen hunt, shoot, and join the ladies in cards, dancing, walking; c. Lord and Lady Mortimer intend to remain in the country till after Christmas; but my brother, whose attendance in town will be necessary very shortly, goes up in a fortnight.
B z Lady
j. M. A S.Q^U E R A.D. E S; or,
Lady Pemberton and' I accompany him Our Society will be broke up : — — however, in So excellent a neighbourhood, the dear inhabitants of this mansion will find many agreeable Substitutes.
A paragraph in your last hints that you are ineommcded by a slight indisposition* Slight'* I flatter myself it is; or. Surely, my Louisa would not adl in So ambiguous a manner! Inform me by the first opportunity how you are, I beseech you— — my amiable friend labours under the least anxiety, occasioned either by pain of mind or body, happiness must be ever a stranger to the bosom of.
Her inviolably affectionate,
*
Julia Herbert.
r.
W H A T Y O U WILL. ', J
%
% •• u *
Lo Lady Julia Herbert.
Sommerville house % ^
The arrival of my julia’s letter quickly dispersed the gloom which is a constant attendant on suspense and expectation! Impatiently had I been waiting for a few lines, to raise my depressed Spirits, 'which illness had Sunk to their lowest ebb; and was beginning to despair, when the much wished for packet was put into my hands.
And has our Caroline really given up all claim to the name of Herbert I — Sincerely do 1 give you joy— — participate, in the opening prospects of pleasure to the Pemberton family. May she taste every bliss the state she has So lately embraced is capable of bestowing 1 Tho’ naturally gay her disposition, it never can make her less Sensible of the invaluable treasure Heaven has allotted her in the worthy Lord Mortimer. He is truly deserving of the jewel he possesses; she is an acquisition he may with great jus tice be vain of.
Do nor, my Julia, Suffer your attention
Bs t(j
t6 MAS (UE R A D E S; or,
to be too deeply engrossed by the Scenes of dissipation with which you are at present Surrounded : bestow a frequent thought upon your sick, and I may add unfortunate friend; for Such in my present Situation I can with justice style myself. — The hou's of real hap piness, which I should have experienced at being present at the late interesting and joyful occasion, I have been deprived of, by a Seeming combination of disagreeable incidents. My indispofition when last I wrote was trifling, — it has since increased;; Slow fever hangs upon me, which Seems pleased with its habitation, and unwilling to quit it : nor can I hope for relief while 1 remain involved in an unhappy affair, that preys continually on my Spirits, and subjects me to reproaches which your louisa’s heart can ill brook. — I will not Say more upon that head by this opportunity. I never take up a pen but Suspicion haunts every breast, that Mr, Melmoth is the only one to whom in my present situation I would address myself. Ah, my Julia! repeated hours of misery do I Suffer on that unfortunate man’s account — have I not cause to wish I had never Seen him? — And yet I owe him every grateful Sentiment for his attachment
to
WHAT you WILL. .7
to me -- -- -- But enough of this subject —
it makes me feel too Sensibly — nor can I bend my pen to any other for the present -- — So adieu, my Julia! and believe me
Your faithful
Louisa Sydney
\
Lady Louisa Sydney.
»
■ Portman^square.
XT E left Mortimer hall four days ago — y y with what sensations, your delicate heart will Suggest to you.
How little does my louisa know, even after So long an intercourse of friendship, the Soul of her Julia! — Why would she conceive So ill of me, as to imagine that dissipation can make me forget her for a single moment My heart Sighed for the pen, when horrid parade and ceremony denied me the use of it; and most frequently were .rny thoughts wandering to Sommerville
B 4 house
8   o
House, whilst pomp, magnificence, and gaiety, unsuccessfully strove to engage my attention.
That you are unhappy, my amiable friend! is evidently Seen — you, who never till the last eighteen months of your life knew more of pain than the name, are now become an absolute valetudinarian : — a circumstance which cannot fail of inspiring with the most dreadful alarms every breast
that Sympathises in your fate. -- -- From
whence, louisa, are we to derive the cause?
I will endeavour to gucss, and inform you, who must be ignorant yourself of if, or. Surely, you would not have denied me your confidence!
Amongst the various reasons that have obtruded on my imagination, I will tell you that which strikes me as the most probable.
You may remember the affection that' Subsisted between you and a certain person now on the other fide of the Alps'; a/r^i ternal one you both called it, but whether absence has not made you Sensible of its deserving another appellation, is a doubt with me. I thought I discovered that your mutual regard originated from Something more tender than the esteem we usuallv entertain
for

for a brother or a Sister. — I believe you are awakened from your error; and, finding yourself oddly Situated between your engagement with Mr. Melmoth (which commenced long ago) and the partiality you feel for our newer acquaintance, occasions the conssidfe that renders you unhappy: and whem the mind is disturbed, must not the frame which contains it be a Sufferer?
Sure, there was Something remarkable enough in your first meeting with our amiable traveller! You must remember it — whether you do or not, I will gratify myself in relating it, as I have often done, to yon. — If you are interested in behalf of the party I am going to mention, as I suspedt, you will not yawn over the paragraph — nor join the poet in thinking “nothing so tedious as a twice told talev
The difficulty we had to prevail on Sir George Sommerville to permiqyou to pass the last winter with us in London, you certainly never can forget. Soon after our arrival here we went one night to See Garrick play Hamlet: at the latter end of the first ad, a cavalier entered the next box to ours, whose handforne person instantly attracted the notice of the admiring Surrounders, I ^ev^r
B 5 Saw
‘to   o,
Saw elegancy, dignity, and ease, So happily blended in any form. He appeared unconscious of, or above regarding, the general adulation paid him by the eyes of the audience. The Ladies that my mother cha perotfd^ were by no means infensible to the charms of this incognito.
Mon Lieu! ** cried Caroline, “he is a divinity!” and, I make no doubt, would have been So loud in her encomiums, as to have convinced him that Jhe had tafie., if Lady Pemberton had not in due time called her to order. caroline’s curiosity, once gratified with a sight of this Adonis gave her no further disturbance, and her attention afterwards was fixed on the hero of the stage. Not So Louisa!! took notice that her looks were other wise bestowed, and, to Say the truth, they sought an objctst worthy of them.
A night or two after, at Lady denley’s assembly, the Duke of Northington brought up the stranger, and introduced him to Lady Pemberton by the title of Sir Charles Montague. He begged leave to be permitted to pay his respedis in Portman square, and the next evening his name was announced in
my mother’s drawing-room.
The
%
  IJ
The visible preference he gave my friend Soon testified that his admiration of her exceeded, by many degrees, that which she favoured him with; and every day producing accumulated merit in both, heightened their well founded affection for each other. Examine your heart, louisa, and tell me whether 1 have divined the real.caufe of your uneasiness? — I hope I have; for then, .' in my opinion it rests entirely with yourself to discard the load of anxiety which with its cankerous quality undermines your health, and renders you So wretched. rln deed, my loulsa, you must discard it -- for the Sake of your Julia, whose feelings are So interwoven with yours, that if you are unhappy, I must be miserable. — Adieu, and think me ever
Affectionately yours,
J, Herbert
t
%
b6 2*
4
12 M AS CLUER ADES; or,
Lo Lady Julia Herbrrt,
Sommerville House.
Am I really blessed enough to have occupied So much of my julia’s attention ii was ungrateful to have entertained a moment’s doubt of it; your amiable heart is ever alive to the voice of friendship. Can she who shares yours So largely, dare to own herself unhappy i Oh no! Supported by that pleasing thought, every pain must wear a trivial aspecst.
I well recoiled!: the agreeable evening you remind me of, which, as you observe, presented to our sight Sir Charles Montague — • Your conjectures with regard to the tender that you think Subsisted between us, are
very wrong. -- -- If I know my own heart,
it is entirely free from any other attachment but that of esteem for him. Were he to return to us the same fascinating object he was when he left England — and again distinguish me by the Same flattering attention he formerly paid me, — my situation might indeed be rather dangerous. — But there is little probability of that: he is destined to
make
  13
make Some person happy, whose Superior merit renders her better deserving of worth like his — — Your kind prepossession leads you to imagine, that every one regards Louisa with your eyes! ^
Do not, my Sweet friend, think me backward in reposing any confidence in you — I know nothing of myself if I possess a Sentiment I wish you to be a stranger to. — Do you deal as candidly by me? Is not your real opinion of Mr. Lenox kept too close a Secret?
You profess a regard for him; but is that alone Sufficient to Satisfy the man you mean to give your hand to? Your behaviour to the amiable Lenox is, indeed, quite inconsistent with that candour and Sincerity, which, in every other point of your con dudb, show themselves the principles of your heart. I am surprised, I confess, how one of your Sensibility can affect Such seeming inattention to his merit. Fidtitious only it can be; I would not think So erro neousiy of your judgement, as to Suppose you Spoke your real Sentiments of him. The truth is, we are all fond of exercising the share of despotism that is allowed us during the day of jurtation, and too often use it to
a wrong
14 MAS CLUE RAD ES; or,
a wrong purpose. Follow not our weak Sex in this point, dear girl, and convince the world how much you despise the paltry Superiority your present situation gives you over a worthy man. Assure yourself, your generosity before marriage will render him doubly Sensible of the obligation he owes to you, and will more firmly rivet him yours, after this important affair has taken place. He will then be convinced, from the contempt you showed for power, while privileged to exert it, of your readiness to resign that which you no longer will judge to be your prerogative— —! Summoned to attend Sir George— — remain, my Julia,
Much yours,
Louisa svdney.
►
if'
«
i
  te Ito Lady Louisa Stoney.
Portman square.
YOU have wounded me to the Soul, my
amiable friend, by Supposing me addicted to a Species of coquetry that I detest. It is now time for me to declare my Sentiments relative to Mr. Lenox, lest I should Suffer in your opinion.
I know not whether I am to charge it as a fault to nature, that I have no very susceptible heart; - — or, perhaps, I have never yet Seen the man who could inspire me with the belle pajfiony which I have So often, with amazement, heard Spoken rapturoussy of.
Mr. Lenox is an amiable man; he has the finest talents, and is endued with the strongest natural good sense, which has been well cultivated by the most liberal education. There are few whose company is more agreeable than his: it is Sought after by numbers, but gives no creature more pleasure than your Julia. Vet, I must own, I never Suffer any great uneasiness at his being absent a few days longer than I expect; nor am 1 violently rejoiced if he surprises me by coming
Sooner
4
V
t6  ,
'/
Sooner than 1 hoped for. I esteem him
greatly; and think I would not make him uneasy for the world. With Such Sentiments, I dare answer, that we shall be happier than if the most romantic love filled my bosom. If I marry him (which 1 expect to do), to promote his felicity will be not only the duty, but chief pleasure of my life. I believe there might appear a little inconsistency in what I have written, yet, I declare to you, I have described, as near as possible, the Situation of my heart. I had a prejudice in mr.lenox’s favour, from his attachment to my brother, which commenced while they were at Oxford, as they have told me. Besides, his character has always been thought So amiable a one, that I Saw pleasure Sparkle on each countenance around me, at the idea of my consenting to a union with Such a man: it diffused a Satisfaction over my mind, and prevented my entertaining a desire to adt contrary to the wishes of my friends.
Mr. Lenox leaves London tomorrow, for a fortnight: he goes to his father’s, whose ill state of health makes Mr. lenox’s absence insupportable to the old Lord.
And now, since I have cleared myself
from
$
\
WHAT you willv tf
from all imputation of coquetry, (to your' Satisfaction, I hope,) you must allow me to tell you, that I am very uneasy about you I can allege nothing in vindication of your partiality for a man who proves himself but ill adapted to the nice Sentiments that adorn your breast. Sure, it is a kind of infatuation that chains you to him. When we are unwilling to break with a pleasing object, how many plausible pretences do we find out to excuse a continuation of the attachment! You Say nothing to me, my louisa, in your last, of your intentions; whether (in opposition to the wishes of your friends) they afe to marry Mr. Melmoth, or to pursue the more eligible plan of rejecting him. — You must be agitated : — I am well convinced of the arduous talk you have to perform; - — it calls for resolution, which I know you will exert.
On the commencement of your acquaintance with Mr. Melmoth, he assumed the deportment of a very worthy man; not a Sentiment did he Suffer to escape his lips, that did not ressedl honour on the heart that didlated it: his wit was always tempered with good nature, and never flew at the expense of any one. There was nothing extraordinary
i
Mas LV ERASES; OR,
t
traordinary in giving a preference to Stich ^ creature as he Jeemed to be; but, when he was Sensible of that preference, how Soon was the mash dropped I Instead of the diffident, gentle Melmoth, behold a passionate, jealous, over ^bearing man, meanly abject where he had anything to hope, and haughtily despotic to his unhappy dependents.
My amiable friend,. can you be distressed for a cause to put an end to this affair, after allowing (which you must do) the character I have drawn to be a just one ^
My advice to yoii is, to tell him candidly, that, with the morals he possesses, he never can make you happy; neither would it he in your power to fiudy the felicity of one to whose sentiments you have an utter abhorrence.
Do not Suffer a false delicacy to precipitate you into an abyss of lasting misery. My dear louisa! summon up a proper degree of ‘courage; difmiss Mr. Melmoth, and with him all your cares. — ‘adieu!
Julia Herbert
I
%
/
  ig toaady Julia Herbert.
Somerville house.
I Cannot Say that I feel, at this moment the pleasure with which I am usually inspired when addressing my Julia. With pain do I own myself under the disagreeable neceshty of disclosing my Sentiments to you on an affair, the knowledge of which will Surely wound your Sensibility: but, were I to conceal from you what an unfortunate minute discovered to me, I Should adt very inconsistently with the stridl friendship I have ever professed for you. You are, I hope, perfectly convinced how much I have your happiness at heart, and that, of course, I think mysclf under an obligation to. acquaint you with the most minute circumstance which threatens an interruption of it. — But, to keep you no longer in fuspenfe, I will relate my unpleasing story.
I went the other evening to pay fomo
visits in the village of -- -- --, and intended
afterwards to sit an hour with Mrs. Dorrel, Mentioning my intention to do So at Mrs. topham’s, I was informed, that it was her
usual
wt
^ ■
M A S QUE R AD E Sj
m
iifual practice to go out to a friend of hers, * and Spend her evenings with heri had hardly heard this, wheiv I Saw Mr, Lenoxes chaise stop at an opposite stbu*se, and a lady get out of it, followed by Lenox“ “God!” exclaimed I, * “Is this: possible! I thought he was at my Lord lenox’s. What can have brought him hither?” One of th ladies gave the most significant Smile at my Surprise that ever I remember to have Seen, and answered, Your Ladyship knows Lord Lenox is So ill that he cannot entertain his Son; and it is natural that he should Seek for amusement Somewhere; besides, Lenox
Castle is but ten miles from hence.” -- -- -- -- -- -- »
“And does he take this airing frequently ?’* “Oh, yes! constantly as the evening comes.’** — I could bear it no longer, but sent one of my Servants to beg the favour of Mr. Lenox to let me say a few words to him. The answer was, he would wait upon me di refuy, 1 remained in all the torture of ex pedlation a full hour, when I Saw him reenter his carriage, after handing in Mrs. Dorrell. It drove off, and one of his Servants brought me his master’s compliments, and that he was sorry sudden indifpojition prevented his having the honour of attending me He little imagined that I was, at a window, witness to the manoeuvre.
•
 , ione
of .the ladies, pitying my uneasiness, Said, “Lady Louisa, it would be the height pf cruelty to keep you longer in fufpense, Your friend Lady Julia Plerbert is much abused by Mr. Lenox and Mrs. Dorrell. When he is from London, his whole time is passed in clandestine meetings with her: neither the cold of these long evenings, his father’s iilness, or, what is more, the preference given him by that heavenly angel, Lady Julia, can keep him from her. Your own eyes have convinced you of this truth; and it is incumbent on you to make this discovery beneficial to your Sweet friend.”
Her voice, her manner, pierced my Soul. Ah, my Julia! my dear girl! will your philosophy teach you to bear this stroke with patience? Much J fear, not— —! Mrs. Topham to inform Mr. Lenox of what had passed; the consequence of which he ipight Soon guess.
I have not Seen him, as a visitor, since his return to the country, .though we live, you know, but four miles from Lord Lenox, I had heard some malicious reports concerning him and Mrs. Dorrell, but never suffered myself to regard them in a Serious light, as you may imagine: yet, after what
I Saw last night, I think it time to put you on your guard.
%% M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
There is no good in repeating my Sentiments of Mr. Lenox : he is as much sunk
* ^
in my opinion now, as he was exalted in it before. As to Mrs. Dorrel, what notions of delicacy can she have, to admit of Such behaviour, as must give a licence to ill natured tongues, from a man who, she has every cause to imagine, is under an engagement to another
Adieu, my Julia!
Louisa Sydney,
/
4
%
$
foi

i
\
  2j
• %
To Lady Louisa syoney.
Portman square.
Your account of lenox’s conduct, my
amiable friend, both shocks and astonishes me. He certainly cannot mean to
«/
deceive us — No! no !- — 1 will hope that your Sensibility, ever awake to the most trifling circumstance which concerns my happiness, causes you to apprehend a danger, on the, bare surmises of Some whose whole pleasure consiils in wounding the peace of others. Be convinced, that a Soul like lenox’s can never be attached to one formed in So different a mould as is tjie lady’s whom you suspe<5l to be my rival. The generous, the amiable Edward, sis not capable of deviating from the strict path of honour wshich he has hitherto trod with So much applause. Tills is my real opinion of him; and, I am persuaded, my Louisa will soon acknowledge to me that she has injured, by her Suspicion, an object deserving of every kind thought. But, should his destiny have decreed her to be the goddess of his idoiatryv I shall assume all the Jtoicifm 1 can, and endeavour
 ,
0
deavour to erase from my remembrance every idea of a person in whose character dwells So much dishmulation, and who will have proved himself, by his behaviour, en f tirely unworthy of my regard. Yet, till corroborating instances of his guilt appear, I will guard my bosom against every Symptom of the peace destroyer, jealousy; and believe it a paraxlox, that a man who has So wth preserved the appearance of virtue, should, in his heart, be quite a different creature from what he has instructed us to think him.
V
“Sure, ’’ you will say, “there is a change in my Julia! I need give no more lectures on indifference, I find.” * — And yet, believe me, louisa, that Soul you have So often taxed with coldness, retains its primitive emotions: I am ever ready, though a female, to enter the lists, where I think an absent party injured. However, the next time I see Mr, Lenox, (and l.expecl him in London tomorrow)) will honestly tell him what 1 have heard, give him an opportunity for vindication, and, if I then can think him guilty, begin to look a little to myself.
1 have Some pleasing news to communicate
«
 5
cate to you. Sir Charles Montague is arrived, and called on us this morning. The air of foreign climes has agreed well with him : he looked handsomer than ever.,
“Dear Sir Charles, ” Said Lady Pemberton, “how will yoiir friends be able to express their joy at your long expefted and. much wished for return! Surely, your intention is, now, to make Some residence in your native Soil.”
“My friends, Madam, do me too much honour. Whatever allurements the French or the Italians may boast of possessing, Lady Pemberton, I hope, knows me Sufficiently to be convinced that I would with pleasure resign them all for the happiness of becorn ing an inhabitant of my own country. I am a true British Subject, and So much attached to albion’s coasts, as to prefer being one of her useful members (as it is the duty of every English gentleman to be) to living in a vortex of dissipation and gallantry amongst foreigners, who could not Support life without calling both to their assistance.” “Sir Charles, you made a longer stay abroad than you intended, ”
“I did, my Lady; I was determined, as possibly it might be the last time I should
ross
26
cross the Alps, to be very minute in Surveying all that was worth observation in the places I travelled through : besides, I had left many friends in Italy, when I first returned from thence, and was glad to go over again with them Some of the joyous hours we had passed together two or three years ago. — But, Lady Julia, how is Sir George Sommerville? I hope there is no impropriety in that question.”
“None in the least. Sir Charles: he is in a very bad state of health, and I fear will shortly leave my dear louisa to lament his joss.”
At your name he blushed, and asked how my charming friend was f
My heart was depressed, I know not why, which made me paint bir george’s situation to be So melancholy a one. 1 was Surprised at mfself the minute after, and told Sir Charles that my apprehension, perhaps, anticipated a danger as yet very far off therefore be not uneasy, my louisa, at my answer: not but that 1 should be cruel to fiatter y’’ou with hopes, the disappointment of which would make you feel more keenly your Sufferings. I never do: still I think hit George will live Some years. Heaven
grant
  nf
«
grant it! And now' no more of the painful Subject.
Sir Charles staid an hour, and then took leave; but first begged a place in our box to See Mrs. Barry in the countess of Salisbury.
1 have written a long letterso farewell I
Julia Herbert
s
\
I
V
. #
^0 Lady Julia Herbert.'
Sommerville house,
I Slave but time to Send you a few lines, * and to tell you, that you may now, with propriety, wish your louisa joy, inclosed are the means which have effectually dis solved the tie of stavery Mr. melmoth’s answer you will find dictated with more Submission than either you or I could have expected from So turbulent a dispofition.
I have brought myself off pretty well, considering the difficulties my imagination presented to my view. My conduct has, I
* These Letters do not appear,
C 2. hope
is
hope, been Such as not to deserve censure The name of i^i/t, joined to louisa Sydney,
'would Sound dreadfully in my ears. I have taken your advice, dear Julia, and have acted entirely by your dictates; therefore will rest assured that I must be right.
The reports of lenox’s attention to Mrs, Dorrel become worse and worse. 1 am glad to hear of Sir Charles montague’s arrival; he will be a valuable acquisition to our Society.
My Uncle Seems better. I know, my julia, he cannot recover; his temporary reliefs from pain no longer flatter me with hope. I was So well convinced of his danger, that I was not alarmed at your reply to Sir
Charles. -- -1 am in a monstrous hurry, and
can only Say that I am,
yours,
Louisa Sydney.
N
\
<
r.
 9
W the Same
Sorntnervilk’ house*
f
I WAS called upon to go out with Sir George to a little village, a few miles off, where he has a very pretty lodge: there we dined, and returned home early to receive Some company that we expected to Spend the evening at somerville house. I was apprehensive of not finding another leisure moment in the course of the day to write to you; theresore, whilst the horses were putting to, Scribbled away those few lines.
1 was right in my conjectures; till this hour (past two o’clock) I could not call a minute my own. The whole house is wrapped in steep : my fears for my Julia will not let me close my eyes.
We are ever stow to credit what will give us pain. — Ah! my Sweet friend, for heaven’s sake, do not deceive yourself, but listen to the caution given you by her who would Sacrifice her life to ensure you happiness \ me warn you, ere it be too late, to look to a heart that has never yet felt a pang, and of course will not be able to bear the
C 3 keen

#
keen anguish of disappointment, unless prepared a little for the blow before it falls. That Mr. Lenox is to marry Mrs. Dorrell is no longer to be doubted; it is the constant subject of conversation amongst her friends : they extol her generosity in making large Settlements upon him, as his fortune at present is So moderate a one, compared to hers. Ungrateful man! Ah, good God! will perfidy like his to innocence like my julia’s go unpunished? Surely not. — My dear girl, take the earliest opportunity of banishing from your favour a man who has injured you, you will Soon find, beyond his power of re compence.
Lord and Lady Arne called yesterday to see us, in their way to town : she expressed the utmost concern at my emaciated appearance, and insisted on my going with them, at their return, to Southampton, as change of air might be of Service to me. Lady Sommerville Seconded her and Lord arne’s entreaties; and my uncle urged me to accept of their obliging invitation. I told them I should be happy to attend them; and accordingly we agreed to Set off Some time next week. They are to pafs a couple of
days here, after their return from London,
previous

previous to our little excursion, I find my health forsaking me every day,
Methinks I hear you call me an insensible mortal, for having So long delayed to mention my pleasure at Sir charles’s kind inquiry for me. Indeed, I am flattered by it, and rejoice to hear he is well. I fear he will be So much engrossed by his London acquaintances, (Lord Budenall, Lord Seymour, Mr. Montague, and his other companions, I mean,) that he will not think of his country friends: though he will be often with your brother, of course must Sometimes See you, and then he must, naturally, bestow a thought on louisa. — No words can express my friendship for him i -- friendship only my Julia.
Your faithful
Louisa Sydney
r
/
C 4
m
22 M ASQUE itad E S; bt,
2i0 Lady Louisa sypney.
Porfman square
I Yesterday evening received your letters. — Yes, it is indeed very true, that Lenox
is false.....my louisa knows, I have ever
made it a rule to hear every part of a depreciating story, before I condemned the person of whom it was told. Judging of others by my own heart (which, I can aver, never did an injury to any one), I have been willing to Suppose that Malice discharged all her venom on an innocent object, through, the mouths of a few envious wretches, whole Sole pleasure lies in being censorious: but how easy a dupe I have been made, and how cruelly 1 have been treated, you will Soon perceive from the incontestable proofs I am about to give.
Last night, as I told you was our intention, we went to the play. The house was in every other part So remarkably full, that it made an empty box, opposite to ours, conspicuous: a Servant was in it to keep places, in a livery which I thought I knew,
, but I could not recollect to whom it belonged
WHATYOUWILL. 35
longed. In the middle of the third adh, when the audience was absorbed in contemplation of the performers, I was roused by one of the box keepers calling out, very audibly, you may imagine, Mr. Lenoxes servant /’* and immediately he entered, leading in Mrs. Dorrell and another lady.
I was astonished to see him in London and could Scarcely credit my eyes, till confirmed in the truth they told me by Lady pemberton’s asking, if that was not Mr Lenox?
His attention to Mrs. Dorrell, during the whole performance, attracted the observation of numbers; and, whether it was the effect of my mortified fancy, I cannot say, but I thought there were many of my acquaintance who Seemed to view me with looks of curiosity, while compashon appeared predominant in the countenances of others, ' His senses were So wholly engrossed by the cne ohjeffi that he could take notice of nothing else.
Lord Pemberton went round to Speak to Lady Caroline Denley, who happened to sic near them, and perceived, for the first time, Mr. Lenox.
“Ha! Lenox 1” cried my brother, this is an agreeable Surprise! Why did you keep
? 5 BS
0
34 MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
us ignorant of your being in town The other started,
“Heavens, my Lord! who could have apprehended your being here! — This is a
happiness......an unexpected.......faith,
Pemberton, I rejoice to see you !’*
“This is extraordinary enough, ^* exclaimed my brother. “Why pray. Sir, is it So unusual a thing with me to visit the playhouse, that you express So much wonder at feeing me in it
“No, ” replied Mr. Lenox, “but I Supposed that you had attended Lady Pemberton
to Lady F -- -- ’s assembly: I heard she was
there; is she not, my Lord ?”
He was exceedingly confused when my brother gave a negative to his question.
Lord Pemberton was So astonished at his manner and embarrassed way of Speaking, that he related what passed, to my mother and me, at his return to our box.
At the end of the play, Mr. Lenox came to us. Ah, how mean does guilt make a person appear! His eyes were fixed on the ground: he had no longer that unrestrained, elegant air, which impressed people in his favour; he was stiff, and formal, and Seemed
to Suffer greatly. I do assure you I was divested
. I —

* {
vested of malice, and felt sincerely for him I would have willingly Saved him further confusion, by forbearing to question him about his unexpeded arrival in London ^ but Sir James Westbrook was determined to torture him He asked, “To what extras ordinary lucky eircumstance are we indebted for this pleasure, Mr. Lenox I Little lesh than a miracle could have prevailed on one of your tenderness to leave your excemenc father an hour Sooner than you at first pro posed. Was the lady you have been in company with handsome, 1 should Sufped; m cause;; she is So cursed ugly,; that, instead of attrading a man from his duty, he would adhere the more closely to it, if it could be a means of avoiding Such a majier -- “piece of deformity. What then are we to thank for it
He answered, thm he was impatient to return to usy as Lord Lenox as better; and had called in Portman square.^ hut hearing that Lady Pemberton was gone to the play, (observe, louisa, to my brother it was to Lady
F' -- -- ’s,) he refohed^ to follow her,
“Why, as it is So full a house, ” returned Sir James, with a Sneer,. I think you were right in also calling on Mrs, Dorr ell — (thacs
C 6 ' ker
w.... ^ '
36
i
her name, isn’t it?) — and getting a Seat in her boxv
The gentlemen laughed much at what Westbrook Said, nd enjoyed poor culprit'^s confusion; yls^t he pretended to join in the laugh, though his countenance plainly demonstrated that it came not from his heart. He asked me, in ^ low voice, whether I would honour him witffshalf an hour’s conversation the next morning? I answered, “With pleasure, Sir.” ^ He bowed, and returned to his party; but assumed a very different mode of behaviour, Scarcely Speaking to Mrs. Dorrell, and constantly fixing his eyes on our box.
I must confess my situation was not a very easy one: we Seldom know, my louisa, how dear an object is to us, till we are on the verge of being deprived of it. I could not conceive, before last night, that Lenox had committed Such devastation in my hearr, as the occurrences that then happened, and which touched me So Sensibly, made me conscious of. How little did I profit of the opportunity I had of feeing So excellent a play So excellently performed! Even Mrs. Barry was not capable of withdrawing your julia’s attention from the magnet that attracted all her thoughts,;
  37
I must not, however, be So far taken up with my own anxieties, as to omit telling you, that Sir Charles Montague is, by this time, far on his way towards Sommerville house. He Said, as we were about to leave Covent-garden, that he intended Jetting out at five d*clock this morning., and would he happy to have a welcome reception insured him, by being the bearer of a letter from me to Lady Louisa. I told him there was a great deal of vanity couched under that compliment. “How So, Lady Julia “Why because you want me to repeat what you are well convinced of, — that Sir Charles Montague requires no aid to make his company highly acceptable to those he chuses to honour with it; particularly to a family who prides itself on the favour of his friendship, and who thinks every moment an age till it congratulates him on his return to England.”
He bowed, and blushed. “Upon my vrord, ma belle Julie I did not mean to have extorted So flattering a Speech from you : — but I must return to my request — Will you honour me with the charge of a letter to Lady Louisa Sydney ?” “Indeed, Sir
Charles, I would trouble you with one with
pleasure, but that I cannot possibly sit up to
write
38
write a long epistle to my friend; and na other can I Send her.” He very gallantly Said, he would wait my hour in the morning and that, let me tell you, ” added he, is. a favour that you, and only youy should command; for my impatience to pay my devoirs to the dear inhabitants of Sommerville house, is not to be deferibed.”
Mournies is just come to inform me that Mr. Lenox begs leave to attend me in the little drawing-room. — I have dispatched her with my compliments, and to Say that I will wait on him immediately.
And now, my Louisa, what is to be the consequence of this meeting? My foreboding heart tells me, an everlasting breach between your Julia and the man whom yes terday morning she looked upon as her destined husband! Ah! may I be able to acquit myself with generosity, with candour,, and yet — with sirmncfs! If matters are really circumstanced as I apprehend, I shall have need of a great deal, of the latter to
Support me.....but I will not add to his
anxiety, by keeping him longer in suspenfe, Oh, how has he deceived us I — Down I go. — My dearest louisa, it will be charity to write Soon to your
Julia Herbert,
%
3$
5i? Lady Julia Herbert.
sommervilk house*
IF the present agitation of my mind will permit me, I will give you a descriptioa of an agreeable Surprise I had this morning;, which has occasioned me more Spirits tjian I have had ever since I parted with you.
I was Sitting in deep study, the inimitable Pope the Subject of my meditations, when Clairon came running into my closet, in her ^ hurrying way, which you and I have So often laughed at her for.
“Mon Dieu! Madame, ” cried she, “il cst entre ce moment, dans la cour du chateau, un jeune homme, de la plus char mante figure du monde: je fuis fur qu’il est fran9ois; ou du moins qusil northeast fait que d’arriver de France.”
Her extreme admiration of this cavalier excited an amazing curiosity in me to see him; but I determined not to make my appearance till I was Sent for. Clairon advised me to disregard that useless piece of ceremony and to go down. — I was deaf to her recommendation, and resumed my book; — how
cverj.
1
40
ever, I waited not long for a messenger; 3 Summons from Sir George gave me an opportunity of Seeing the divine unknown. Judge, Julia, what were my emotions, aten * tering the room, to behold Sir Charles Montague! 1 could Scarcely Speak, my joy was so great. — “Dear Lady louisa, ” Said he “my happiness can be equalled by nothing but my impatience for this long wished for moment. — Your indisposition, f which 1 was informed by your lovely friend. Lady Julia, has occasioned me a good deal of uneasiness— — told me I must expert to find you much altered from it — how pleasingly disappointed am I!”
“I find. Sir Charles, you have not left the art of flattery behind you; — I am rejoiced to see you So well.”
My uncle hoped, Ie had now fitted a reftf lution of residing amongst us.
“My residence in England, Sir George, ’’ cried he, “depends on one circumstance^
Lady Sommerville, who lets nothing baulk her curiosity, immediately ashed what that was? He begged to be excused imparting it to i^rrthen, and added, that Jhe would certainly know it soon.
1 suppose” ” Sir George, your
heart
  411
heart has taken a mansion in Some pretty foreigner’s breast, and, according as she treats it in your absence, you mean to return, and either fix it firm, or recall it back again. Women, Montague, are hard to trust; and the ocean which divides you proves a general remedy for love.”
“Your are much mistaken. Sir George, in your conjectures! — That my heart is stolen from my breast, I must own; but I have been robbed by no foreigner: I left it in my native country, and am come back to claim a restoration of it, or, what would make me much happier, endeavour to acquire another in its room — I am willing to make that bargain, — but tremble lest I
should be called presumptuous.” -- -- -- -- -
“There is no fear of that. Sir Charles, ” returned my uncle. “Heaven Send you suc cess in your intended undertaking! — Yet I must express much surprise at your constancy amidst the dangers you have been ex posed to in your travels, especially amongst the French women, who zxt'plaugy fascinat ing.”
The other allowed they are charming, but would not admit them to be equal to the English, whose genuine beauty far Surpassed
their
« -
4*
their artificial allurements. He gave us a long account of his tour, in that elegant language, that delightful turn of expression, which ever was So peculiar to him.
Is he not returned, my Julia, if possible, more captivating than he was at the hour he bid us adieu? — I wish Sir George had asked the objefl’s name, who could boast of Such
a treasurc as his heart, though upon re
fledlion I am glad he did not — 1 would not for the world have had him Seem So curious! -- -- I feel the tenderest friendship for
Sir Charles, from finding him still the Same ■ — kind, amiable, and polite. Was my heart likely to be again ensnared, I do not know where its danger would be So great as with
Sir Charles Montague -- -- -- but Mr. Melmoth
has given me a Surfeit of love, and, as a fortunate guard towards the Security of my peace, this dangerous agreeable has declared his affections to be already engaged. Blessings attend him through every change of condition! The greatest this life can afford will be the portion of the happy woman who calls this most amiable of his Sex hers. ..... Yet does not your Louisa, Sensible as she is of the value of Such a treasufe,
wish to possess it.
My
  43
My intended excursion to Southampton was talked of: Sir Charles told me he would certainly visit it during my stay there. He shortly after took his leave, and retraced part of the road again to arrive at Bagshot, where his uncle. Lord Beaumont, passes nine months out of the twelve. So fond is he of the elegant Seat he has there. — rmy next letter to you will be from Southampton; till then adieu, dear Julia.
L Sydney.
4
»
y
44
To Lady Louisa svdney.
Portman squarf,
The so much dreaded conbi<st is over?
my louisa -- -- How powerful is the
force of innocence when confronted by guilt! — Your Sympathising heart must beat quick with impatience to know the result of our conference — I will hasten to gratify you.
I attended Mr. lenox’s Summons. On my entering, he approached me, and in a respectful manner led me tp a Sofa — he drew a chair near me, and, Seating himself, told me it was needless to inquire after my health for that my looh demonjirated I was perfectly well.
There appeared So much Serenity in his countenance and address, that I could not help repeating to myself, “Who knows but this man may yet be innocent! — if not, he is an adept at dissembling.”
“My impatience to See the most charming of women, as I told your Ladyship last night, made me hasten to throw myself at your feet, and pour out the effusions of a
heart
  45
heart wholly attached to my Julia, and which has Suffered more than words can ejxpress, at the cruel Separation that my father’s untimely illness occasioned, — — I hoped on my arrival in town to have found you at home, and, on being disappointed, determined to follow you; burr, calling at Mrs. johnfon’s, I met Mrs. Dorrell, who was just going to the play — she invited me to a Seat in her box, which 1 accepted of, as she had no beau to attend her; and it happened well, for yours was too much crowded to have admitted another person” ”
“dare say. Sir, we could have contrived to have made room for you, had you been distressed for a place! but 1 am glad, for your own sake, that you were So much more
agreeably accommodated/’ -- -- He seemed
abashed —
“What do you mean. Lady Julia ?”
“Why suspect any particular meaning in what I Said, Mr. Lenox? — Was the answer So extraordinary a one ?”
“Your Ladyship Spohe as if you had a design to construe an incident, that was the mere effcdt of chance, into an error intentionally committed.”
tt If you are not conscious, Sir, of deserving

\
46
jng that I should, and know yourself free from meriting censure, you cannot be much alarmed at my suspicions— — what error could there have been, in your attending the lady. Supposing it had even been the result of choice instead of the mere effect pf chance P“
“explain to me what fault lam accused of?’*
“I wilh — it is but right that you should be allowed to justify yourself- -- if that canot be done, to retrieve my good opinion by dealing generoussy with me, while it is yet in your power. I shall adl: with you, Mr. Lenox, as I would wish to be acted by — only let me implore you to answer my candid behaviour by the utmost Sincerity on your part.” — 1 took out your first letter, relative to his meeting with Mrs. Dorrell — He changed colour as he received it — I did not wish to distress him, by the Jieady flare of a Scrutinising eye and withdrew to the window while he perused the letter — I could not help falling into Some moral refiedfions on the instability of human prospedls, which, like fleeting shadows, elude the eager grasp, when we think we are on the verge of pof fessing our dearest wishes. I was in a deep
reverie.
  47
reverie, when Mr. Lenox came to me with your letter.
“My lovely Julia, how your delicate Sensibility charms me! He must be a wretch indeed, utterly void of judgement and taste, who could Suffer a thought of Such a woman as Mrs. Dorrell to enter a heart devoted to perfection like yours! — But he were the worst of villains that would attempt to deceive one, in whom innocence and goodness are So Sweetly blended with every accomplishment of peision V
He kissed my hand, and shall I tell you, Louisa, that I then thought, and am now persuaded, it was to hide the confusion which was but too visibly painted in bis countenance. How very much did his looks contradict what he averred! — He went on w
“But why will Lady Louisa take Such pains to drive me entirely from a bpfom> which, I must be allowed to Say, never felt more for me than the cool regard, pf a friend, and never was backward in .creiditing any report to my disadvantage i reddened at these words, and was' gojng to reply with the proper Spirit he dt'ferved; — but, as I knew my own heart, and how apt he tyould bie to catch .at C7cty straw, compassion ipade
43
• V
me willing to allow him this trifling advantage — I Suffered him therefore to proceed. ^tt, Surely was unkind of her to the last degree! I once flattered myself she was my friend — blit now I am convinced that’* — — “Hold, Sir— — Louisa was your greatest friend, till your behaviour caused you to forfeit
every title to her regard. you See, she
does not too hastily condemn you, or she would have altered her opinion of you, as Soon as the report of your attachment to another had reached her ears, and not waited for ocular proof of your infidelity to the
friend of her heart. -- -1 do not mean.
Sir, to make you any reproaches; I am Superior to the thought of performing so mean a part — nor would I choose to inquire into your conduct any further than it concerns myself. This, you will more clearly See, by reading Lady louisa’s last letter, and, I hope, will do me the justice to believe, that no jealous motive induces me to adl in this manner.”
His agitation was visible, in Spite of his endeavours to conceal it — He read it — and with a countenance that made me feel for him. -- -- Ah! my Louisa! why will we Suffer
frailty to efface the good impressions
which
 : 49
which Nature has engraven on our hearts, — n particularly when there is nothing fasci naring that compels us to err against our reason! As 1 viewed the object before me,
I was not So much amazed, that a voltaire’s, or a rousseau’s tenets, should gjain credence amongst profligates; and instruft them to think, that the human mind is much more prone to evil than to virtue; and that we find within our breasts a vicious impulse, which irresistibly aftuates us to Swerve from what is right. -- Heaven forbid 1 should believe that assertion! — I hope we are born with greater propensity to good in our in clinaiions — and am Satisfied, if Mr. Lenox had been even tempted to deviate from honour, there was reason and redlicude of Sentiment Sufficient in his bosom (had he pleased to exert them) to prevent his yielding to the vile instigations of his viler genius: the commission was voluntary — therefore, in my opinion, never to be forgiven.
When Mr. Lenox came to that part of your letter, where you say that I shall find the man has injured me beyond the fewer of recomfence.^ he turned pale as death -- repeat ed the Sentence aloud, and let the paper fall from his hands,
Vor. I. D Lady
> i
jjfo MAS QUE RA D E S; or,
“Lady Julia !” -- -- more he would have
Said, butshis voice for a few moments failed him — at last he exclaimed —
“Ah! Lady Julia! — your friend has probed me to the soul! — Culpable as I acknowledge my late behaviour to have been, it is not, I hope, — altogether irreparable“
“Heaven! Mr. Lenox, you cannot
conceive it possible’* -- -- -
“Wretch as I am. Madam, I will not add dissimulation to a crime that now, and only mw^ strikes me as one: believe me, had I been conscious of the fault I committed, I had Sooner died than have persisted in it. But, ere I attempt to justify myself,
hear me. Lady Julia! -- -- my ingenuity, -- -- -
my sincerity — will, perhaps, induce you to forgive. — Behold before you a man more criminal than even that letter makes him; — who came this morning with an intention of abusing your gentle, unfuspefting heart, by offering vows contaminated by the tongue
that would have uttered them. -- -- It is really
true that I have paid an attention of a particular kind to Mrs, Dorrell. Caught by the visible notice she distinguished me with, and willing to let the world See it was in my power to possess her person on any terms,
and
 ; 51
and her fortune, if I pleased, by marriage, I acknowledge 1 Suffered my vanity to mis guide me; and, after dangling attendance on her for a while, grew tired of the Scene, and wished to return to that shrine where the most faithful adorations were always offered. I withdrew my visits from Mrs. Dorrell, but found it not So easy a matter to get rid of her: letter after letter did she Send me; and I was at last obliged to tell her, that, whilst my heart was So wholly devoted to another, I could not think of further connedlion with her. I Supplicated her pardon for my ungenerous conducft, which I grievousiy lamented, and offered her any compensation she thought it in my power to make, ex ^
elusive of my hand and affections.1 here
is no describing her fury all the virulence of an enraged woman did she pour upon me; -- and at last vowed she would make no Scruple of exposing herself to you, to render me odious in your sight, judging (as she Said) that a female of Juch refined delicacy as Jhe heard you pojfeffed^ would infiantly discard a man who had committed a flagrant breach of fidelity., whiljt engaged to another. This threat really alarmed me; and, to keep from your ear what I was afraid you would
D % deem
52 M ASCLUERADES; or,
deem a capital transgression, I strove to pacify her; but could not effect it in any other way than by relapsing into the fault I wished to conceal from you. Thus, Madam, have I been made a wretch, through a desire of gratifying the most despicable sort of vanity; - — a vanity that draws on me the contempt
of those I regard. -- No friend would open
my eyes, when first I strayed; — no one was kind enough to remonstrate on the dangerous steps I pursued: : — who profejfed an esteem for me stood aloof; — and, as if my destrudtion was impatiently hoped for, they Silently beheld me working my own ruin. -- -- Lady Julia! in this humble attitude
let me entreat your pity! — Do not condemn a man, more weak than vile; less guilty than unfortunate! -- Guided by your reclaiming hand, 1 henceforth shall follow that road alone which Virtue points at, -- - which leads to happiness and you. — Forgive— — forgive this first, this only error! Never, never shall I wander more!”
The next post shall convey to you, my clear Louisa, an account of the rest of this
(I must call it) interesting conversation. In the mean time believe me.
Yours most faithfully,
V ^ Julia Herbert.
WHAT Y O U WI L L 53
To the Marquis i Osmond.
St, yumefs place.
YOU are, 1 doubt not, dear Osinond, am
impatience to have a curiosity gratified., which is usually allowed to be the prerogative of the fair sex, but which we, in general, I think, are equally adclicfed to. -- - You ex pc6t me to be very circumstantial in my account of everything that has happened to me du: ing the few weeks of our Separation: I wish my pen may answer to my inclination, and give you the most Satisfadtory pleasure.
Nothing material occurred till I got to Paris (there I gave your letters as you desired). 1 immediately went to our good.
friend the Count de C -- -- -- -, and the next
morning made my obeisance at Court. You have i’ccn the ((ytieen, Ofmond; and, if I remember right, think her handsome. After this important affair was over, I was introduced to the rest of the Royal Family a Second time, having paid my devoirs to each individual of it when I was last in Paris. I then enlisted amongst our old friends, Ro selle, Dobterre, Morbion, and Pelties: we
D 3 were
54  ,
were very joyous; though we often lamented your absence. At the end of a fortnight I thought of departing.
The French women are certainly, in general, not handsome; still they have Something that infatuates very much : they are agreeable, and render themselves pleasing by throwing off Some of that constraint which our beautiful countrywomen give too much into yet, on ressedtion, they are much less fettered by it now than they were a few years ago — for which many an unfortunate husband curses his fate, and our intercourse with our neighbours on the continent. I .am not married, and, consequently, well content.
I embarked from Calais, and landed in four hours at Dover; from whence I proceeded post to London. The Spires of that .great metropolis, as I approached it, caused emotions in my breast that I had long been a stranger to: I felt a pleasure, as I entered it, which cannot be expressed. “This city, ” cried I, probably contains all that my Soul holds dear!” — I repaired to low’s Hotel immediately, and was too much fatigued to think of going anywhere till the next morning. — I went to Lord pemberton’s as Soon as
I was
I
  55
1 was dressed the following day. What sensations did not the sight of that house awaken in my Soul! Every pleasing moment I had Spent in it with my louisa and her charming friend occurred to my remembrance, and made my heart dance with rapture! Oh, osmond, what fools does this love make of us! Would one believe that, when I entered London, 1 had every reason to think that Lady louisa was married to a Mr. mel moth, who addressed her when I was last in England I had, indeed; — yet I would never give credit to any Suggestions of the fort, Vv'hich must So infallibly have destroyed my peace. It happened that I was right; for, to my inexpressible joy, the affair is off, and she will, I hope, yet be mine. — Such inconsistency does the passion stib je<5l us to, — to So much misery, Sometimes, I could with justice moralise on all sitss soil ies, and caution the friend of my soul against its dangerous allurements, did 1 not think that the man, who, in character of a friend.) pretends to preach what he is conscious he cannot pradlise, does but expose himself to ridicule. Sensible as Heaven has formed your heart, it amazes me, osmond, how you have contrived to keep it So well
D 4 fortified
5'6 MASCLU£RADE$; or,
fortified against the beauteous enemy; for, though frequent the attacks that have been made on it, you still have resisted, I fancy, every one of them. I did sufpe(st you once - — not to Violent— — having surrendered j but you denied ir and I believed you. — Now to my own history.
I found Lady Pemberton, and her divine daughter. Seated in the music parlour. Heavens! what blooming beauty appeared in the countenance of the latter, as she arose from her harpsichord to receive me, which she did with the greatest affability and friendship, mixed with that native elegance which constantly attends even the most trifling motion of hers. Compliments having passed on both sides, we Spoke of the Sommervilles: the dear louisa was our next Subject. I had the mortification to hear that she was in the country, and had been confined there, since the Spring, by a Series of ill health. My countenance, through all rny dissimulation, must visibly have betrayed the emotions of my heart, i alked with eagerness what had occasioned it? Lady Pemberton told me that her indisposition was chiefly owing to the fatigue and anxiety she must naturally
Suffer from her constant attendance on Sir
George
 ' si
George Sommerville, whose whole happiness. was centred in his lovely niece. She dropped the Subject too Soon. I asked Lady Julia if she had Seen her friend lately? N?,
she answered, which was a grievous mortification to her, as jhe would be exceedingly hap^ py if they were never to be separated.
I devoured every word she Spoke; and thought she never looked more charmingly than when her coral lips opened to pronounce the name of louisa Sydney. How did she expatiate on the merit of her friend! How express her wishes for her welfare I — and with a warmth which none but a soul, great as her own, and feelingly alive to every Sentiment of friendship, could have experienced.
This amiable girl is, by most people, reckoned much Superior, in point of beauty, to Lady louisa : she’certainly claims the advantage of her in person, and may be justly called a Venus, while my louisa is but a little
Iiehe....lady Julia Herbert, I fancy, OSMOND,
would boast a Speedy conquest over that kmhetsto invulnerable heart of thine: her whole figure is just Suited to your taste. I know you to be one of those sharp sighted fellows who easily discover a mistress’s cle
D 5 feds;
58 MAS Q.U eradesj or,
fedls: now, to find out the least blemish, either in the mind or person of this admirable creature, would baffle the penetration of an Argus.
I determined to Seize the first opportunity of going down to Sommerville house; accordingly, the third day after my arrival in town, I got into my chaise, and repaired thither; where I found Lady louisa, all lovely as I had left her! -- nay, if possible, improved; for ill health had occasioned a languor in her beautiful eyes, which gave them an irresistible softness. It requires a more descriptive pen than mine to do justice to the perfedlions of Lady Louisa Sydney, She received me with a Sensibility delightfully flattering; — and yet Such only, perhaps, as she would feel at the return of any other esteemed friend, who had been many months absent. Ah, osmond! if it is but in that light she regards me, alas, my brightest prospects are blasted!
You know your montague’s heart, and have often condemned it for harbouring Sentiments of pride, which as yet I have never been able to eradicate: I cannot conquer iny resolution never to Seem attached whilst there lies a doubt of my meeting with
a re
  59
Z reciprocal return; yet should I despise, as much as you could do, the woman who would make the firii Advances: — but still, there are moments when a Soul replete with Sensibility will discover its emotions, without acting by any means inconsistently with that delicacy which should be the first rule of a woman’s condudf. A man, when possessed of a pure and ardent passion, before he absolutely declares it to the lady, will, by a particular mode of behaviour, make her in Some measure Sensible of it. Vanity (a foible which I doubt not but the most perfect female owns in Some degree) will not Suffer her to be long blind to it. If the object is such as may deserve attention, she will naturally consult her inclinations, and see how they stand affected towards a connexion with him. If, upon a thorough examination, she finds them inclined to favour him, she will, though in trifles, show that partiality which a bosom attached cannot conceal. Take my word for it, osmond, (So much do I know of the Sex,) when once a female doubts whether she can love a man or not, she is lost to all but him who occasions her to ash her heart the question. A Sensible woman will let merit be her first view, in the
D 6 choice
% ^
6o MASCLUERA.DES; OR,
chi ice of a husband: : object who can boast of possessing that, may, by the means of a constant attention, hope to obtain the affections he wishes for; and, if once he make an impression, he cannot long be ignorant of his happiness. The very precautions which these delicate creatures take to dis guisc their Sentiments, are generally the circumstances which discover them. I should, therefore, upon recollection, (was I not fearful of flattering myself with ideas that may be too charming, perhaps, ever to be realised, j conclude, from Some trifling appearances, that I am not totally regarded by Lady louisa as a mere friend. Sir George rallied me on the probability of my having left my heart with Some black ey’d, witty foreigner; and, on my Soul, Ofmond, a blush overspread her cheek. The thought transported me: — I too readily gave into the flattering illusion; and my vanity Suggested to me that I was happy....i argue with myself against the likelihood of her preferring me to the many Superior Suitors she has had; — nay, I that have never expressed my pashon to her — how is it possible— — far my reashn says, — but, alas! there is no
reasoning with a heart in love.
I had
  6r
T had repeated Solicitations to make my stay longer at sommerville house. « indis
pensable business called me to my uncle’s, and 1 bid adieu to the dear louisa with a reluctance that I could not conceal. She Suffered me to kiss her hand, on my taking leave: it was with difficulty I restrained myself- -- Snatched it to my heart — pressed st
with my lips....my whole Soul was in my
eyes, — whilst she, with a composure that destroyed my air built hopes. Smiled at my earnestness, and wished me a pleasant journey
osmond, permit me to repeat, that I adore her! She is the only woman upon earth I will ever marry — at least, it is my present resolution — and I think I shall keep it.
It is time to close my letter, as I must prepare to dress. I am to dine with the
Duke of D -- -- -- -- - — e, and every man puts
on his most attractive air and studies every minutia of dress, to appear well in the eyes of his charming wife; — though, by the bye, we may as well Spare our pains, for she bestows little attention on any of us her Grace is one of the few who has not benefited enough by the French modes to create siuspicion in her lord’s breast.
1 wonder you are not impatient to return.
Surely,
62   o R,
Surely, your father would not object to it. Come when you will, all England is prepared to behold with admiration “the accomplished, handsome osmond— — I do not jest! tshose two appellations are always given you.
The Duke of Westmoreland did me the honour of a visit this morning. He ashed many questions concerning you, and Said he heard that you made many womees hearts ach : he supposed that yours endured some part of the paint but he would be befi pleased to know that your sufferings were injiifled by several, and not by any one particular objefi, lest danger might follow from it. Upon the whole, he was very entertaining: no man can be more So, when he pleases. you’ll excuse me.
f
It is with reluctance, dear Ofmond, that I bid you farewell. — I am, much yours,
Charles Montague,
Tr
  i
ISO Lady Louisa Sydney.
Portman square,
Fatigue had overcome me, when I
finished my last epistle to my friend. That, and a Sad headache, determined me to dispatch what I had written, and Send what more I had to write by this day’s posh Without further preamble I resume my narrative; — may I not call it So, louisa?
Mr. Lenox had thrown himself on, his knees during the latter part of his Speech: he waited with Seeming anxiety for my answer— —
“have been certainly culpable, Mr.' Lenox — very, very culpable — but you appear to have So proper a notion of your error, that to recapitulate your fault, would be ungenerous of me to the last degree — Besides, you are entitled not only to my forgiveness, but to my sincerest thanks, for having so candidly informed me of what has passed. — I shudder to rested: how miserable a wretch I should have been, had 1 learned all this when beydnd redress! — L beg you. Sir, to rise, and once more assure you of my pardon, and wishes for your happiness.”
y Ex
f4 mas Qll E R A D E S j or;
Exalted goodness! — Ah, my Julia! I thought it imposhble to love you better than I did; but the love I feel for you now is like that we owe to a Supernatural being' — from hencefiirwards I can view you in no other light. ^tou pardon me— — adored
of my soul! how can I thank you! — in what words I — Ah, Julia! this gentle sweet nefs makes me but the more defpise myself I How, how could 1 ever prove unworthy of Such an angel— — never. Surely, can fall again! — Mrs. Dorrell! — oh! what vitiated taste could bear you for an instant Where were my senses, Heaven! — Cursed be the moment that led me to her! and doubly cursed the words that melted her to become the
willing victim of my folly -- -- Julia! my
much loved — my dearest Julia! be convinced you never more shall have cause to
complain of your lenox- -- -
“a friend. Sir, I dare say I never shall; but in a nearer connexion, I must not — will not— — to answer for the coritinu ance of your present good purposes.”
“What! can you doubt my persevering love Could you now view that lovely form — could you know in how Sacred a light I hold that spotless Soul — your suspicions
would
 s
would instantly be disssipated. -- Whilst you
are an anges can I, in a union with you, become a demon Be generous, be kind, my charming Julia ' — Do not be merciful by halves; nor, while you say you forgive his fault, refuse your hand to the sincerest penitent that ever breathed a vow of” -- --
“Impossible! Mr. Lenox, ” cried I, interrupting him. ‘.do not blame me, Sir, for refusing the love you : — in justice to
you, as well as to myself, I protest, in the most Solemn manner, that no consideration whatever shall force me to enter into an engagement with you that must be indissoluble; an engagement that should be entered into with the striftest confidence on both sides .... no distrust — no fear, ought to be carried to the altar. -- The man who possesses
my hand, shall have my whole heart; and that (I must be ingenuous enough to tell you) cannot be the cafe, where I have had reason to be wounded in the tenderest part my Sensibility Sir -- oh! how have you made
it Suffer! — indeed it was cruel.” -1 could
nor suppress my tears — .my heart was overcharged with anxiety, aijd would relieve itself that way — one or two unluckily fell on his hand as he held mine.
“Great
66 ’ MAS (^UER ADES; or.
Great God I to what a fate am I born! To draw tears from the eyes of the object on earth on whom my soul most dotes !” — He dropped on one knee: “Forgive the wretched cause of those heavenly drops that fall from eyes which but to look on was wont to
give me life! ........ Never did man
adore a woman as I do you — none can love
you better— — as well.....ah! had I
but been Sensible of it at the moment I first cost a pang to that dear bosom, I should have thought my life too Small a Sacrifice to have expiated the injury! — But no more — I do not mean to distress you. Madam, ” Seeing me much affected“ “this posture I implore your pity; and, as I cannot give up the hope of calling you mine, beg you to mention Some method by which 1 may regain your confidence — There is no torment I will not patiently endure with that prcspedl in view. — I cannot. Madam, I will not leave you, still you alter the fatal resolution you just now pronounced.”
“After all I have Said, Mr. Lenox, can you suppose I shall ever alter it? .... I feel more for you on this occasion than you perhaps imagine. If you really merit my compassion, you possess it all j — but, Sure, you
need
  67
need it not! — it is yet in your power to be
happy” " -- He interrupted me —
“For heaven’s Sake, name the condition! — I will fly with wings of impatience to” —
“You mistake me. Sir — I cannot deceive you for a moment: my word is paji^ and no earthly consideration, as I Said before, shall make me break it. ..... You thought Mrs. Dorrell not unworthy your notice — Her character was fair, till your particular attention gave the censorious a foundation for disgraee* able constructions, which it is incumbent on you to remove. Her attachment to you, poor woman! must have been great— — a man of your feeling Support the idea of an amiable perfon’s becoming the most wretched of mortals on his account.? — Ah! Mr. Lenox, Summon your reason at this crisis; it will instruct you, that you have a very Serious affair in hand, and must conduct it in a way that will atone for a crime in the sioht of God, of which it is evident you think too lightly. — It isto her you are in truth engaged— — knows it well — The malice of the world will be disappointed in finding that you ratify that engagement. — Not one reproach shall attend your behaviour, if you will yet pursue the matter —
Tam
M  ,
I am the person most concerned, and you may depend on my managing what has passed between us in Such a way as will redound to your honour.’*
“Heaven and earth! do you then hold mein foabjedt a colour — Can you conceive So meanly of me, as to suppose I would ever think of a union with that despicable woman— — am under no engagement to her — When she consenied to an unlawful intercourse, she was well convinced that at the time
^ \
my heart was yours entirely. I gloried in it, and made it even to her my boast, that I hoped to call you shortly by my own name, — “Let me tell you, Lady jusa, and forgive my plainness — the present cafe demands it: Mrs. Dorrdl thought her virtue no Sacrifice, nor did she ever feel one remorseful pang at having yielded it t used no arts for the purpose— — dissimulation— — were required ^ it was a voluntary offering of her own, — and for Such a woman -- ami to become thus miserable“
“must have given her some reason to believe that you loved her — elfe I cannot imagine any woman could be so abandoned — At best, poor creature! she has been guilty— — ■
is unfommate. — But your attention at
first
A
*
  69
X
first was Sufficient to induce her to think you fdt Some attachment for her. — Indeed, Mr. Lenox, trifling as your Sex makes of Such behaviour, it is one of the most barbarous pieces of cruelty you can commit. You insinuate yourselves into our affections by a thousand endearing gallantries, which in practice carry much weight, but in description appear as nothing — without once declaring yourselves lovers, you render us infatuated to you — and perhaps find the unsus pecling heart in an unguarded hour; when you take advantage of its weakness, and then hold it in the contempt you now do Mrs. dorrell’s. You change the object as Soon as inclination prompts you to do So — and leave us even without the liberty of
complaining. -- -- Unhappy Mrs. Dorrell! I
confess you are too justly despised— — cannot persuade you, Mr. Lenox, to marry her; — but this I know, -- I will not be any obstacle to your doing it. She certainly judged properly of my Sentiments !’^
“May curses keen as the pangs I now feel, blast her! -- May she never know
hap” -- -- -
“Hush! for heavens Sake, Sir — Your imprecations on her cannot make me think
more
C *
yo MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
more favourably of you— — Satisfied with the friendship I offer, which I dare aver will be permanent, because no diffidence of you will accompany it; but never flatter yourself with the most distant idea of possessing mofi than my friendjhlpp
“You Seem So cooly resolute— — Lady Julia! allow me but the most distant hope — drive me not into immediate despair!” —
“I cannot, Mr. Lenox, allow you the least hope — I have not been taught to deceive; nor can I prevail on myself to show you prospedls you must never expect to reach.”
Colonel Elliot and Lord Pemberton then came in, opportunely I thought; and, the first moment that permitted, I slipped upstairs to my dressing-room, and heard Mr, Lenox wish my brother a good day as I was on the staircase.
Lord Pemberton Soon after Sent Mournies to beg I would allow him to attend me for a quarter of an hour- -- may suppose he did not long wait for admission— — he entered he thus addressed me :
^vl have been anxious, Julia, to know the reason of this piuzzling behaviour of lenox’s
  yi
nox’s, and have waited most part of the morning with impatience to Speak to you— — he was with you, I remained in my study, unwilling to intrude, still I found it growing late; and my curiosity was really So much upon the rack, that I could keep myself no longer out of the room. Forgive, then, my disturbing you, dear Julia, since my Sincere affection for you occasioned it; and let me beseech you, by the fraternal friendship I have endeavoured to show you,
to keep me no longer in the dark. -- -- Nay!
my sister — things must be bad indeed when you are in tears! — Can Lenox be a villain? Does he presume to trifle with my sister i— — • Julia Herbert! — By Heaven, he durst not! — Speak, I charge you — From whence proceed those tears — Speak, Julia! — Am I unworthy your confidence ?”
“My dear brother! can you be surprised •at my tears? — Your attention to my happi ness melts my soul with gratitude; — they are the overflowings of a heart replete with
the warmest sense of your kindness- -- will
not be So much my own enemy as to let escape any opportunity of striving to deserve your regard; and my first step towards
riting
74
riting it shall be by opening my whole Soul to you.”
“Indeed, .you would wrong me much, were you to conceal from me what may have caused an instant’s uneasiness in your bosom. Never had brother more amiable sisters, never were sisters more beloved by a brother. — My life — my fortune — are devoted to their happiness, and neither (did occasion require) should be Spared to procure it— — as good as your word, Julia, — and tell me what occasioned your embarrassment last night ?”
“Embarrajfment., my Lord I”
“No duplicity, Julia, — give me notreason to think less favourably of you now than I have hitherto done.”
“You wish to find me culpable, brother, or why So unkindly misconstrue my words I Give me leave to explain my meaning, before you hastily accuse me of a quality I defpifs. — If I was embarrassed, it was no wonder, when every eye Seemed fixed with attention on me, to try whether they could discover the truth of a very silly report that had been propagated concerning Mrs. dor rell and Mr. Lenox. A person who professes more confidence than I do, would have felt
auk ward
\
  73'
V
awkward in Such a situation — I confess that I did — but flattered myself that my countenance did not betray the emotions of my heart, ’*
“They are actuated, I absolutely belieye, by the Same organs; no face So plainly reveals each thought — Be it your misfortune or your happiness, I know not, but you cannot dissemble without detedtion — vonr feelings, exquisite as they are, are instantly delineated on your features — — — — Tell ine of Lenox — there are odd conjectures circulating respedting him and Mrs, Dorrell — bir Charles Montague took me aside last night after the play, to mention Some of them that he had heard from Sir John ee nyon, which he thought his friendship for me called upon him to repeat, ' and did it with that gentleman’s consent -- Montague told me they neither of them gave much credit to Such malicious reports, but judged it hard that 1 alone should be unacquainted with them. I leave you to guess my Surprise— — • cannot think Lenox; dishonourable — yet I chuse to know from what foundation this censure could arise that is cast upon him, and must insist, Julia, on your informing me of the plan you and i.enox are, upon
vol. 1. E In
- ^
74 M A S (LU E R A D E S j or,
Indeed, my Lord, if there is anything amiss on either side, I am more in fault than Mr. Lenox, whose behaviour has been So generous to me as to affect me a good deal this morning. You may remember how strenuousty you and my mother recommended Mr. Lenox to me: first, as your friend, I regarded him; and afterwards tried to love him, for his own sake. Finding the time draw near that is to lay me under irrevocable ties, my refraflory heart forebodes a thousand anxieties: — it tells me, that the passion I entertain for him is no more than friendship; and that I shall make neither him nor mysclf happy in the connexion.... wish to break with Mr. Lenox — till I accomplish that point, I can know no peace, and you will ever See the brow of your Julia clouded with Sadness. Something has passed between us just now relative to it; and I hope to manage So as to escape uncensured by him and the world, and yet free nhyself from this unlucky, this horrible engagement I”
“Ah, Julia! I fear it is in consequence of lenox’s perfidy that you have formed this Scheme 1”
y Flave no Such apprehension, brother;
and
  75
and let me entreat that you will not interfere in the matter: my delicacy will Suffer much, if you do. Depend upon it, 1 will get off very honourably without affijtamev I Said this with a Smile. He looked attentively at me.
“Julia, have a care that you behave in genuoussy with me! Think you 1 can believe ...however, I will rely on you.”
He looked at his watch, and, Surprised to find it So late, hastily retired to dress.
How blessed, my louisa, do I think myself in my close consanguinity to Pemberton I How excellent a man does he prove himself on every occasion I How eminently conspicuous have his virtues stood forth, even at that early period of life when youth and inexperience would have pleaded for the want of them! But the noble Frederick merited the regard of all, by an exemplary behaviour, and a constant exertion of cheerfulness and affability. No haughty, imperious looks, that added conjequential dignity to pompous words., bespoke the mighty Lord; to all beneath him
...........As gentle
As Zephyrs blowing below the vioiet>
Not wagging his Sweet head, ” — — —
E 2 When
» '
76 M A S Q, U E R A D E S; or.
When chosen to fill the highest post, what courage, what magnanimity shone forth, and displayed the disinterested, faithful fubje(5l, to the adm ring eyes of a Surrounding multitude! Is it not strange, that, in a kingdom filled with cliffentions, as ours unhappily is at present, Lord Pemberton is equally the friend of all parties ^ A conscioufness of the integrity of his honest, amiable heart, makes every one desirous of deserving his good opinion. Were I to attempt descisibing his private character — to paint him in the different lights of a Son, a brother, a friend, a master, how much would my pen fall short of his deserts !-• — But whither is it running? Pardon, my louisa, the eulogiums a sister bestows on an amiable brother; t — the vein for praising him was upon me, nor could I stop it.
JL
Lord and Lady Percival, Mrs. and Miss pelham’s, Sir James Westbrook, and Sir John Benyon, were assembled III the drawing-room when I went down. Lord Pemberton seemed in excellent spirits, and fatif sied with wh; t I had laid to him; yet, from a hint that escapcd his lips just before he left my clolet, I w’as uneasy. How many bitter resteclions occurred to my tortured
imagination!
WHAT YOU" WILL 77
Imagination! “All - powerful Heaven
would 1 often Say, “should the life of a beloved brother be put to any rilk on my account, what would become of me Mirth, Seemed to reign in every breast but mine: situated as I was, no wmnder, dear louisa, that sadness presided in its room.
The company Spent the evening in Port ^ man square, and I had not an opportunity of relating to my mother the transiidlions of the day till site retired to her chamber: I attended her thither, and, while site was undressing, begged her to discharge Mrs. Thornton, 'as I would Supply her place. She did So, and listened very attentively to the particulars I gave her. 1 had the good fortune to meet with her approbation of my conduct; and, on my expreshng my fears concerning Lord pemberton’s engaging in any rencontre with Mr. Lenox, received more consolation than I could have hoped for: she represented his prudence and real courage in So advantageous a light, that I retired to my apartment much composed.
I should have mentioned that 1 received in the evening a letter from Mr. Lenox, filled with protestations of the sincerest penitence. He describes his misery at the ree
3 fiedtion
•»
i
78 MAS Q, U E R A D E S; or,
fiedion of my cruel behaviour in the morning; but cannot, he says, relinquish all hopes of miy treating him with more humanity, when he procures Lady and Lord Pemberton to be his advocates. It would have been to no purpose to return any answer to a man vrho would not accept of my obstinate refusal; I therefore made him none, but left it to his own invention to try what rhetoric would be most prevalent with Lord and Lady Pemberton, determining, in my own breast, not to retradl from the resolution I had taken.
- As Soon as I awoke the next morning, I inquired of Mournies for my brother, and was informed by her that he had gone out •very early, “What on foot S’ “Yes, my
Lady- -- Louisa, what were then
my Sensations I — Never, never may I again experience Such! — I started up, hurried on my clothes, and went to my mother’s room : I told her my fears, — my misery. Possessed as she ever is of the finest presence of mind, she endeavoured to quiet my perturbed Soul; yet I perceived how greatly her bosom was agitated by alarms of the most dreadful sort, in Spite of her vigilance to conceal them from me.
After
 , 79
After waiting Some time in all the horrors of agonising suspense, dispatching Servants we Scarcely knew whither, and wishing, yet dreading to hear tidings of my brother, his well-known rap occasioned almost as bad an effect,, the Sudden transition we experienced from torture to joy, as the former had nearly produced. I am convinced that another half hour’s Suffering, equal to what we had endured, would have deprived us of reason, at leash We reproached Lord Pemberton for the shocking condition he had put us into. When we were Sufficiently recovered, he informed us that he had written the evening before to Mr.lenox, purporting that he had Something of importance to Say to him; and desired he would be at home, and ready to receive him, at eight o’clock the next morning. He accordingly went, and insisted upon lenox’s Satisfying him respedting the reports that had reached his ear; — he told him he hoped he was fenftbu that his jtjier was not to be jejied with; and Said a great deal to that effect, which I cannot remember So particularly as to write down.
Mr. Lenox behaved extremely well on the occasion. He honestly related to my brother all that had passed between us the
E 4 preceding
^0  ,
preceding day, acknowledged himself cidpalte in yielding to the advances of Mrs. dorreli and that he was amply punished for it in his cwn reflections. He complained to Lord Temberton of my rigour., and Swore no consideration upon earth Should make him give mi up : he entreated him to represent to me his mijery^ and urge me to feal his pardon.
I am Sorry to Say, louisa, that my brother treated his fault very lightly, and declared Mrs.pcrrell was., in Ms opinion, the criminal, and not Lenox, whom he Juppofed I would not torture., heraufe her principles voere diabolical.
these men! — these men 1 — how readily do they throw reproach from themsdves on the weaker part of the creation! I do not vindicate Mrs. Dorrell: — indeed, she has acted So vile a part, as to call forth a blush on every virtuous cheek; yet I will maintain that Lenox was quite as guilty — nay more, perhaps. Were his Sentiments as good as I once thought them, he would have abhorred a woman of Such morals; and, instead of becoming a partner of her crime, have for ever fled an object who cast a resiedtion on the whole Sex. — My brother, I thought, was at liberty to indulge his own notions respedling the distintstions of propriety; but
Mr.
  Si
Mr. Lenox had been tried and condemned in my heart, from whence I would Suffer no appeal.
Lord Pemberton assured his friend he would make up our brouillerie and appointed him to Spend the evening in Portman square.
• Lord and Lady Pemberton gave general orders to be refused to every one but Mr. Lenox; who came about eight o’clock. I was in my closet, employed with my pen, when he entered the house. He was shown into my mother’s dressing-room, where my Lord and Lady were. I was Summoned to appear. — I endeavoured to collect Spirits Sufficient to assist me in the conssiest I was about to endure : -- it was a hard one, you will allow— — imploring Submissions of a man whom, but a week before, I expe<5led to have called by the dearest epithet in the world, in little miore than a month — the entreaties of my brother — and the paf sive behaviour of Lady Pemberton, who, I knew, would not interfere, but still wished for a reconciliation — all, all required much firmness to withstand : shut the! alternative was dreadful — To marry a man who had forfeited my good opinion, was a thing not
L 5 to.
s
82 MAS auerades; or,
to be done by any means; and I worked myself up to a pitch of resolution that was unconquerable, when I entered the dreshng room. — As Soon as 1 appeared, Mr. Lenox came up with great eagerness to me, and Seized my hand. “Pardon, Madam, my presumption in attending you, after yoyr cruel Silence to my letter. I cannot — cannot Suffer you still to refuse ray addresses, for a fault So sincerely repented of. Pity and forgive a man whom vanity, it is true, has led astray, but who sees his fault — who owns it — who condemns and hates it. Let the ardent protestations I yesterday made iri writing have Some weight: — be not inexorable, my Julia! — still you are mine. My Lord has promised to use his influence; Lady Pemberton, too, deigns to be my advocate : will not Such a mother — Such a brother — persuade you to receive into favour the most unhappy of men
“What can I say? Nothing is more irk some, Mr. Lenox, to a Sensible heart, than to give a denial : mine you have Subjected to that painful sensation too often within these two days — and to what end !”
“Julia, ” Said Lord Pemberton, “be generous; permit me to plead for Mr. Lenox.”
“Indeed,
»
  83
“Indeed, my Lord, I have a friendship for Mr. Lenox that” -- -- --
“Well, Sir, ” exclaimed my brother, “Julia has gone a good way towards restoring you to yoxxv ancient rights and fri vileges in her affections; for you know that “Friendship with woman is sister to lovep, Lenox, I congratulate you; and thank you, my sister. — Now all is forgotten, and Mrs. Dorrell may go to the devil.”
lenox’s eyes Sparkled with joy: — he threw himself at my feet, and was about to Speak; but I interrupted him, and, turning to Lord Pemberton, with as grave an air as I could assume, expressed my astonishment at his conduct, and ashed, whether he could conceive that my resolution was to he Jhaken?
“Yes, upon my Soul!” he replied. I hope you intend to give a Specimen that it is impossible for Jo soft so gentle a bosom to contain resentment.”
“Call me not resentfui, I beseech you, ’ for acting in this manner : in justice to Mr. Lenox, as well as to myself, 1 do it. With you. Sir, ” turning to Mr. Lenox, “I must be explicit; and once more assure you that I can never be yours. Were we to be connected, a thousand doubts would make me
E 6 wretched.
«
•$
84 mas Q^U ERADES; or,
wtetched, How often should I think, that the man who could forsake me for no worthy objeff, in the days of courtship, would find it (from the general perverseness of human nature) a much harder point to keep bis affections fixed to one he was Jhackled to for life. Your even flirting with another, showed an instability of attachment that, in my opinion, paid a poor compliment to the woman you were engaged to. I never should See you look grave, but my heart would Suggest to me that I was no longer loved; and I could not but reproach myself with having deserved it, by entering into an union with you, after the proof you gave me of your infidelity, however slight you and my Lord may think it. But, if I am to suppose that vanity was your ruling motive with the lady, why may I not fuspedt that it might again influence you to extend your conquests? If, under the dominion of that foible, (to give it no harsher a term,) it is certain you could never be contented .with the Single possession of your wife’s heart. You must be convinced, Mr. Lenox, that, with these Sentiments, you would be as miserable as myself, were I to give you my hand; and ought to bless Providence, that, knowing
each
* \
  85
etch other So well, we are not to be united.
1 Say nothing of. the obligations you are under to marry Mrs. Dorrell, since she is capable of wishing it — I Speak of my own feelings; — you must adt as you please respecst # ing her. — You cannot fuspedt me of meaning to recriminate. I forgive you, from the bottom of my Soul, every moment’s uneasi ness I have Suffered; and only intended to show you how impossible it is to think of a further connexion than what at present Subsists between us.” -- -- louisa, how my heart
bled for Lenox!
“Ah, Lady Julia!” cried he, be not So Severe! I would rather die than urge you to do a thing that would render you wretched; but, if your happiness can depend on my behaviour, never, never, my Julia, shall a' painful idea disturb your peace.”
lady Pemberton told me that I was too refined in my notions; yet her countenance did not indicate that she thought me So, My brother Said 1 was a feynd.ld.'^iicotte, and made a lamentable matter of a frolic that every man was guilty of, who had an oppor (unity so put in h\s way. My mother reproved him for Speaking with So much levity. I was vexed, but made him no answer

I
86 M A S Q, U E R A D E S j or,
Swer; and, though censured by all, still continued steady in my determination.
I have, no doubt, my amiable friend. Sufficiently exhausted your patience: I will not, therefore, give you any longer detail of our conversation, but only Say, that Mr. Lenox alleged all that man could do, to induce me to retraist my word. He was Seconded (but not So strenuousiy latterly) by Lord Pemberton. At length he took his leave, in a condition that called forth every Sentiment of compashon. I have received Several letters from him; and, at his earnest solicitation, have consented to two or three visits — but in vain! He declares, that, since I am So inflexible, he must tear himself from me, and is resolved to Set out for Paris to mbi> row, with Mr. Stepney.
Mr. Lenox wished to take leave of me, but my Spirits have been So much agitated of late that I could not bear it, and have entreated my brother to dissuade him from urging any further a request So opposite to my inclinations. With difficulty he at last effected it; So I am Spared the disagreeable talk of hearing the adieus of a man whose unhappiness 1 cannot See with indifference. ... .May every good angel attend and guard
him I
  87
him! and may he find Some more deserving woman, who shall cause him to bless the hour that I was obdurate to his Supplications I
.....And now, my Louish, look back with
me, and view, with astonishment, the work of one short fortnight!
“Oh, 'tis amazement all V
Providence, I hope, has difposed of everything for the best. If you but tell me that I have conduced myself properly, I will endeavour, when painful ideas arise, (as I fear they Sometimes will,) to find consolation in the rectitude of my own heart, and think, with the charming poet, that
Whatever is — is right.”
I am, my dear Louisa, ever yours,
Julia Herbert
To
\
88 MAS clue rad ES; or,
^0 Sir Charles Montague.
Paris.
unahle to Support Italy after my friend’s
departure, I wrote to my father, and desired his permishon to return to England, begging him at the Same time to direct his letter to this place, where I shall wait his commands. I should hold myself very unwor
- ^ m
thy, were I to Suffer a suspicion to cross my thoughts of the duke’s keeping me abroad by way of punishment! I am persuaded no
Such motive can adtuate him -- -- Yeti am
strangely puzzled for a cause, why for six years I have been made an alien to my country and my friends, as if I was an out cast from them, and a disgrace to the man to whom I owe my birth — What tho’ I am Supplied with more money than I can Spend! — what tho’ my equipage, my attedants, my garb, are more Suited to a prince of the blood than your Henry! — they give me no pleasure; and I would rather be a plain cornet in one of the regiments in England, than the Marquis of osmond, with the Superb appendages which belong to that title, in Italy or France. Montague, if my father
was
WHAT toe WILL. tg
was Sensible of the misery a refusal to my request would inssidt on me — his heart could not avoid feeling Some pangs — at least I think So. — Oh, my friend! how little do you know the anxiety that is planted in my breast! — Most Severely have I Suffered for my imprudence in going opposite to the commands of the Duke, by accompanying you on a tour that has blighted all my hopes of happiness! You must understand from what I have Said, that my attending you to Paris, after my father’s writing to forbid it, was the unfortunate period from
whence I date my wretchedness. -- --
You express astonishment at my preserving my heart free from the Softest attachments. — Ah! Montague! have I done So Alas, no! — ^ — I See you start, but blame pot my want of confidence in you — My adventure bore the Semblance of romance — admit not of the possibility of love at first sight — at least a lasting one; — and I was never in a humour to bear your raillery or contradidlion, which I could not evade, from my total ignorance of the name and residence of the object. Both are yet unknown to me, but at this distance you will be more indulgent to what yoq may term my folly, and may Spare
your
y
y
/
90 'M A S (LU E R A D E S; OR,
y®ur ridicule; therefore my Soul shall be laid open to you. You hint, in the letter before me, your remembrance of the change that appeared in my Spirits during the latter part of our stay in this metropolis — you were uneasyat it, and wished to hasten our return to Italy. — How often have I reproached myself for treating you ungenerousty! when in the most Supplicating accents, you have hefought me to repose my inquietude in a bosom that I Should ever find true to its trust. Could you conceive the confiifts that tore my Soul in pieces, ycm would forgive a Silence that was painful to me beyond description. — — I have been on the brink of a discovery — my lips have often involuntarily opend at your call to reveal the Secret, when a timidity injurious to friendship has again Sealed them, and
forced it back to canker on my heart. -- -- -- -
Say not that this is Some puerile affair, which absence or time will administer a Sure remedy for ~consider, it is near three years since we were together at Paris, and I am as much devoted now to my beauteous incognita as
at the first instant I Saw her. --
It is true, no one was gayer than your osmond, or a more general admirer of beauty. I Sacrificed at its shrine, and was distinguished
♦
  91
guished for gallantry, amongst the most gallant — yet my heart always came off conqueror -- -- Ah how changed! even the lovely
Violent had lost all her charms with me on my return, and I yielded up, without a murmur, the title of her cecisheo to the Count de Alsforza. — Now, my dear Charles, I will give you the particulars of this matter, from the strangeness and perplexity of which you may form Some judgement of my embarrassed Situation.
The evening prior to our departure from Milan, you may recollect, we passed at the Marquis de Felechinsts palace: at parting, his amiable Lady put into my hand a letter, which she begged I would deliver myself — adding it would introduce me to the acquaintance of a lady of distintstion, whose company I should find agreeable, and to •whom she had the honour of being related.
It was addressed, “A Madame la Princess De *-«*** *^ Superieure de la convent de ****** *^ a Paris.” I bowed, and assured the charming Marchioness of my utmost diligence in presenting the packet she did me the honour of committing to my charge.
, On my arrival in Paris, my first attention was to execute my prornise, No composition
of
92 M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
of cicero’s ever produced greater effects, iho’ in different ways, than the amiable Fe -- lichini’s letter did — 1 consider it as the epoch of my fate; for it introduced me to a place which contained an object that was created, I fear, to embitter my days. 1 need not tell you, who have a slight acquaintance V ith the princess, how much I found her Surpassing her friend’s defeription in point of fense, vivacity, chut will hasten to my narrative.
One morning in my way to the Due de ■**■*** ^ * *, I called upon the Superieure to give her le bon jour. As I entered the, Saloon, I Saw standing by her, with a letter in her hand, the most beautiful girl idea ever had a conception of — Her figure was tali and elegantly formed — 1 must try to describe her: — Her hair was of a dark auburn, unsullied by powder. She had large black eyes that Sparkled radiant through the ambient fluid, and conveyed, with one glance, more expression to the soul than the eloquent tongues of a m*****ld or a b**ke could do in a day : never did 1 meet with any half so beautifully piercing, yet tempered with a softness So exquisite, that they claimed your gentlest feelings the moment
they
  93
they beheld you: they were fringed with long, glossy eye lashel Her mouth — heavens, how lovely— — idea of a rosebud, half disclosed, and not entirely freed from the dew of the morning, occurred to me, from the freshness of it : methinks I See it opening to give a passage to the words she addressed to the princess; buc when she Smiled,
“A dartme; glory seem’d to blaze abroad. That my desiring eyes were never weary.
But hung upon the object.”
Her coral lips enclbfed a Set of the most even and the whitest teeth that ever were placed in the head of a mortal; they Surpassed infinitely violante’s. Her nose was an exact Grecian. The lower part of her face was turned with the most perfect symmetry. Her Skin was of a dazzling whiteness. Ten thousand blue veins meandered about her forehead (which, I should have mentioned, was not inferior to the other features I have described in beauty), her temples, and her chin. Add to this the most animated, the most blooming complexion that ever adorn cvl a Hebe, and you may form a poor, im
perfcd notion of the countenance of this
Sweet
94- mas (LU ERADES; or,
Sweet girl. Her neck resembled a swan’s in length and whiteness: the fall from it to her shoulders was beyond the art of an Apelles to imitate — In short. So was the whole figure : and So inadequate am I to the representation, that I leave you to finish, in your imagination, her matchless form. I have brought her back to my own recol ledlion most warmly, and you will pardon my rapture in exclaiming, with the poet, she was. Surely,
“fram’d in the very pride and boast of Nature, So perfefst, that the gods who form’d her, wonder’d at
Their own (kill, and cried, A lucky hit has mended Our design! Their envy hinder’d, elfe She had been immortal, and a pattern when Heaven Would work for ostentation sake, to copy Out again.”
The angelic creature Seemed Scarcely more than fifteen, but there was nothing childish in her appearance. So charming at that tender age — what, oh! Montague, what must she be now I
She would have withdrawn on my entrance, but the princess detained her hand. “No, my dear, finish the letter, and then deliver your Sentiments to me upon it. That
gentleman
  95
gentleman is an intimate friend of mine, and will be So obliging as to excuse us for a few minutes, when he knows that the letter is of importance, and requires immediate perusal The Sweet maid looked at me with a blush, and, clirtsying, resumed the paper. I begged I might not be an interruption, and Said I had only made use of her highness’s permission to ash her how she did, and, findinoc her well, would take my leave.
“By no means, ” she answered; “my fair charge will Soon have done, and then I shall attend you. I have been a whole week without receiving your devoirs and cannot think of losing the present opportunity to chide you for your negledr, in So Sadly fulfilling the marchionefs’s injundlions. I therefore entreat you to stay.”
1 withdrew to a window, that they might pursue their conversation without restraint; and there had time to contemplate an angel’s form, which has been ever since riveted on my imagination.
When they had Settled the business that ingrossed their attention, the lovely girl advanced towards me with a dignity that animated every feature, and, in the most polite, gentle manner, begged I would pardon her
for
MAS QJJ ERADES; or,
for occupying madame’s attention, when it ^ might have been so much more pleasingly taken up by me: then, elegantly curtsying, quitted the room, and left me absorbed in wonder and delight.
The Sirens taught her voice their melody !”
The harmonious music of hers operated as Sensibly on my ears, as her divine person, and the irresistible graces which adorned it, had done on my eyes. I knew not whether what I had Seen was a vision, created by a delirious fancy, or reality, till awakened from my stupor by the princess’s inquiring if I ailed anything? I tried to rally my Scattered Spirits; but it must have been visi ble that I was struck to the heart, from madame’s evading the many questions I ashed relative to this beautiful girl. All I could learn from her was, that she was an, Engltjh lady, put under her particular care.
Does she mean to take the veil - cried I.
“That is uncertain, ” replied the princess.
- — “Her name. Madam! for god’s Sake, inform me of it! There can be no harm. Surely, in gratifying So trissing a request! Let me implore you, Madam
“Your
\
  97
/
“Your eagerness, Sir, forbids it. That Sweet girl is dearer to me than words can express. I will acquit myself as I ought concerning the precious trust, and give no hold for disquiet to any party. I have the highest opinion of Mr. Cholmondeley, (the name, you must remember, that I assumed on quitting Italy, to avoid my father’s detedion,) and, permit me to add, regard for him; and, were I to gratify my inclinations, they would lead .me ho comply with your Solicitations: but to do So would be improper, and on your honour, your gratitude, 1 depend, for making no further inquiry about her.”
Her words were explicit, and her air still more determined. 1 withdrew, abashed, confounded, cursing my own folly, that would not Suffer me to dissemble the emotions of my too eager heart. Had I appeared indifferent, I might now have been blessed; for, could I but have discovered htv bolts
and barsv nay, death should have been encountered, rather than not have Sought an opportunity of telling her what devastation she had, in a few minutes, committed on a heart determined to be hers alone. Ah, Montague! could I have done So, I should have been in a less unhappy Situation, at the worst.
Vox.. I, F than
98 MAS Q, U E R A D E S j or,
than I now am; for, if she rejected my pas sion, a certainty of my miserable fate would have been preferable to this torturing state of fufpense and apprehension.
In vain did I employ souville’s diligence to tamper with the Servants (for the first time in my life I acted meanly); they were not to be corrupted. — How often have I repeated my visits to the Superieure, in hopes of catching a lucky moment when her too vigilant care might have been lulled to steep! but to no purpose. The only intelligence I received from her was an assurance of her friendship, as long as I continued to deserve it; but, at the same time, it was made known to me, .that to drop my visits would be considered as a favour conferred on her high ness. I forbore, with Sad reluctance, to torment her; but night after night have Spent in Solitary walks under the convent walls. I Sound it impossible to gain anything by my nodurnal excursions. So well regulated was this monastery, that I was driven to despair, and felt the less reluctance to go back with you to Rome. In ten months after, I returned to Paris, but was equally unfortunate in my Search during the few weeks that 1 remained here.
Again
r
 9
Again have I been assiduous to trace the lady. I have the additional mortification to know that my amiable, though obstinate friend, the Superieure, is dead. I have Seen, Some of the nuns, but can get no information from them. The religious of this house Seem to think, from my inquiries, that I intend much harm; and those who can tell me Something of my fair one, fancy they have merit in keeping her concealed. — Montague, what is to be done What hardships would I not encounter to have the satisfaction of once more beholding her !- — of telling her how exquisitely dear she is to
me! -- -- If she is returned to England, I
have everything to fear; for it is next to impossible that beauty like hers should remain unconneded amidst thousands of adorers— — yet, I think, if she was still here, I must have discovered her in some of the various stratagems I have used for that purpose since my arrival.
Thus, my friend, I have at length acquainted you with the reason of the change that has been So visible in me since that fatal excursion of ours. Never shall I appear otherwise, if this charming unknown is not restored to my sight. I shall go to
'F 2 England
100
England with a fixed resolution of Searching each corner of it, and discover her, or die in
the attempt. To complete the measure of my misfortunes, I know my father meditates a match between Lady Henrietta march mont and your Cfmond: it has been his point of view from my earliest infancy. But let him not propose it to me, if he expe<5ts my obedience on all occasions. In every other respect, I will try to please him : -- in this point, he may as Soon expect to behold generosity in a usurer, as compliance in of mond.
You must mention no more any lady to me, as a future. -- ^ — I am ashamed to Say it, but will acknowledge my perverseness- -- am already prejudiced against Lady Julia Herbert, because a connexion between us, it is supposed here will take place when I go over. Colonel West told me yesterday, he would venture to lay any wager it would be Jo; for he thought We were formed for each other. What an arrogant, prophetic way of Speaking! And, let me tell you, Montague, your thinking she might boast a Speedy conquest over my heart, ” shows but little penetration on your side. No more of it, therefore, prithee! I knew her brother
at
W H A T Y O U vnti L L loi
at Bologna; — an amiable young man, - — reckoned dangeroujly handsome and agreeable amongst the ladies, but distinguished by our Sex for being remarkably Sensible and clever. Lord Pemberton was not liked in the Count de palirno’s party, (to which I was introduced,) because he was much in the Marquis bellarini’s, who was their enemy, from Some family quarrel, that was handed down from the Second or third generation to the present one.
Can you forgive my remaining So long Silent on Such a Subject as the fair louisa? Your description of her is charming. There is no doubt of your being well received; and, should it be your lot to marry her, may she prove deserving of my Montague, and you must be happy!
If I had not already Spun cut this letter to an immoderate length, I would alk a few questions of “who’s in.? who’s out.?” and what you are all doing to occasion Such commotions, as even to make Frenchmen all attention, and wait with impatience for the northeast plus ultra of your transadions.? I might, with Some reason, begin to think myself an exile to thy country; yet I find neither distance nor absence has wrought any change
F 3 in
%
102   oa,
4
in my patriotic feelings; and I am as much interested in the fate of England, as the most zealous of her Subjefls can be.
Charles has entreated me to permit him to go over to See his mother, whom he has been Separated from ever since I left England. A good Servant deserves every gratification : I shall give him this packet, with diredsions to deliver it to you himself. I will not entertain a thought of going back to Italy, and have therefore desired him to return, and wait at Dover for my arrival, as I shall leave this place in two days after I get the duke’s letter.
Adieu, dear Montague! — Believe me, with Sincerity,
Your most faithful and devoted
osm0nl>i
«
fe
1^
  loj
ISO Lady Louisa Sydney.
Portman square,
That my behaviour should be approved of by you, makes me happy— — let the busy world look on, and either acquit or condemn your Julia — I am prepared to meet its Smiles — or frowns. If iriy Sensible, amiable friend, applauds my conduct, I am Satisfied; and shall behold with intrepidity the affected whisper and steady stare, ever ready to meet an object who has unluckily
afforded conversation for the public....
And has the transadtion of Portman square already reached Southampton Your letter that tells me of your arrival there, informs me that it has. — Ah! my louisa, it is impossible to divest a delicate mind of a certain pundtilio given Surely for its torment. - — Excellent Colonel Worthley! I revere him for his just admiration of my friend! — — Endeavour to dissipate your thoughts, dear, louisa: Suffer nothing but tranquillity to
* This Letter does not appear.
F 4 approach
104
approach your bosom, and your health willj 1 doubt not. Soon be established.
You have probably heard that my Sister ‘arrived three nights ago, perfectly well, and siandsomer than ever. In her way from Dover, she passed a week with her great friend Lady Sophia Nevill, whose whole happiness appears as much wrapped up in almeria’s affection as almeria’s is in hers, I need not describe our joy at meeting; your feelings will better paint it than my pen.
Last night we really had an elegante nter tainment; our company, tho*seledt, very numerous.
Almeria andihadfuch a variety of partners, that it would be impossible almost to remember them all. I only recollect that she began with Lord W -- -- -- -- a, and concluded
with the Smart Col. Elliot. 1 danced
the two first dances with the Duke of D
and the two last with the fine S — ri
think Col. Elliot begins to admire Almeria with more partiality than mere friendship inspires- -- is early, you will say, to
pronounce him a lover, — yet, in my opinion, he proves that a peison may be caught at the "first or Second interview at Last his behaviour
to her is like that of a man in love.
We
\
\
  105
Wte did not break up till five this morning.
I may own to you that my sister received the adulation she deserves: her elegant figure shone conspicuous in a minuet she danced
after Supper with Lord C -- -- -- e, Two Such
forms, and Such adepts in that graceful movement, could not fail of attracting the attention of every beholder. -- - — Every one Seemed
happy: if they were not, their countenances dissembled well.
In the course of the evening, Capt. Walpole (lenox’s intimate friend) approached me —
“Lady Julia” cried he, “permit me to remind you of the poor wanderer, who is now perhaps Surmounting difficulties with a heart but ill adapted to meet additional uneasiness -- -- Will you not bestow one compassionate thought on Lenox -- -- -- -- Such a
letter as I have received from him would melt a breast of adamant.
“Indeed, Sir, your friend is often in my thoughts. If he is unhappy, he possesses all my compassion: but time, distance, and a variety of objecls, will Soon eradicate every impression that could be hurtful to him. On
that Supposition I console myself; for, bef
5 sieve
ic  .
Sieve me, when I assure you, that the idea of ittxking any one unhappy, would darken my brightest prospects.” He told me that such a Jemtment was peculiar to the goodness of my hearty that, although Lenox confejfed himself wretchedy he applauded the geneyojity and candour of my behavioury and believed it to he in the power f Heaven alone to reward a soul in which firmness seemed blended with the ten' dereji humanity.
I curfesied, and would gladly have withdrawn from him; but he put his friend’s letter in my hand, and endeavoured to make me promise to read it — 1 begged to be ex cused, and returned it with a peremptory look — He received it bowing, and exclaimed,
“Oh those eyes I
They will be understood, and conquer In their cause: — he must not be a man That can resist them.”
I was fortunately ashed by Mr. H -- n to
dance a cotillon before I could reply.
But, was it not extremely wrong, my deaf louisa, to remind me of Mr. Lenox? Determined as I am, there is no good in presenting him to my imagination. — And why read his letter Perhaps, it is supposed I am
one, who wishes to asst a theatric part, and
who.

who, after raising my own admiration at the heroisrn of my performance, will finish the Scene by rewarding lenox’s mock repentance. — 1 am angry to my heart with Captain Walpole — Did I really think there was duplicity in his intention, I should quickly withdraw every favourable thought from him
and his friend too -- -- but I will hope that
compassion, and nothing more, stimulated him to lose sight of his accustomed delicacy — andin that cafe he ought. Surely, to be forgiven for the goodness of his motive. I am interrupted
%
* * ^ ^ ^
* * * ^ * * * '
• — — I was Summoned, my louisa, to attend Lady Pemberton, who put into my hand a letter she had received from Lord Seymour, Supplicating her influence with me to receive his addresses. He endeavours to dazzle us with large Settlements— — amiable character is a far greater incentive — and, had I a thought of entering into a connexion at present, Lord Seymour would likely be the man of my choice. — But I have at this time an invincible aversion to the idea of marry
F 6 ing.
io M asqluerades; orins;
, which, should it continue, will indubitably Subject me to the appellation So universally dreaded by our Sex— — I am yet very young, louisa, and, after the escape I So lately met with, think it most prudent not to get into any engagement in a hurry. I told Lady Pemberton the impossibility of my listening to Lord seymour’s Suit. She, with her usual goodness, assented to my importunity, that he should be dismissed as a lover, and joined me in wishing to retain him as a friend -- -- Her Ladyship is at this moment
employed in writing to him to this purpose. Why would he not receive a re fusalfrom me the other night Thus to subject himself to this Second mortification! — IHAVE no patience with him! — and, to Say the truth, my Louisa— — am just now out of conceit with all mankind. —
Do not imagine that any disappointment I have had occasions this present chagrin— — not believe either that Mr. Lenox still holds my heart, and makes me fretful — — • Oh no! — what I have done in respedt to him has been upon deliberation, and was the re sultof my own free will — Were it to go over again,.! would adl in the same manner — Heaven take him into its protection! Shower upon
t
i
  loq
t
on him thy choicest blessings, O thou Omnipotent Being 1 -- -- -- -- And now, my Louisa,
friend of my Soul! let him never more be the Subject of thy pen — and here I resolve never again to name him, either in my letters or shy conversation. — Were I to conclude So Serioussy, nothing would convince you that I was not affected with melancholy, — yet for once you would bemuch mistaken. sircharles Montague told melastnightthatheintendsset ting out tomorrow for Lord beaumont’s at Bagshot, wherehepropofesto Spend two days: from thence he goes on a hunting party to Broadlands, and then proceeds to Southampton. It is easy to guess what magnet at tradts Sir Charles So often into Hampshire — ■ he absolutely makes himself ridiculous about you — a perfect Oroondates in love, I vow! — — — Would you believe that no entreaties could induce him to dance ^ He Sat down soberly to quadrille with two antiquated Dowagers and a married Lady; and, after pasting an hour in that amtiftng manner, pinned himself to my steeve for the remainder of the night (except when I danced), and withstood with admirable fortitude the innumerable darts that were levelled at him
from Miss walpole’s bright eyes, ^ — — And
yet,
%
110
yet, louisa, it is strange, he never once mentioned your name, nor even laid hold of an opportunity that was in his way of Speaking of you; for, in his hearing, Colonel Cecil asked me whether you had found any benefit
from changing the air Now, do not be
alarmed, and Suppose that he was offering in cenfe2it my Jhrine. No, believe me, he was very Satirical on many of the company, — very general at other times in his subjects— — complaisant — and very — stupid. He was a dead weight on my hands; out of Spirits, because
you were absent, I fuppose indeed
I could have Sympathised with him for the Same reason. He has promised to Spend this evening in Portrrian Square, and I shall then give him a hundred messages to you. Another fine opening, louisa: if the man is not a Simpleton he will Surely Seize it, and bestow a few encomiums where they are So deservedly due, knowing, too, how Soon they will travel to Southampton. His reserve to me, in what relates to you, dis pleases me : however, I will not adt as the generality of his acquaintance do, who are eternally mentioning your name before him, in hopes of extorting a word, or blush, that
may gratify their .despicable curiosity. 1
will
  mi
will always al as delicately for my friend as I would for myself. I can tell you the world has already paired you, which shows it has judgmentj^^ in matching So meritorious an object asclouisa Sydney with one very little inferior to her. By'the length of this letter, you will Scarcely conceive that I feel at this instant harassed and fatigued almost to death, and yet the is So; — but indeed I know nothing that can So Soon alleviate any Suffering I endure, as writing to, or conversing with you. Adieu, my louisa! Believe me happy when I can convince you how much I am
Your affectionate
Julia Herbert.
«
t0
%
t
\
112 " M ASCLUERADES; or,
ISO Lady Julia Herbert. '
Southampton.
I Was obliged to quit my friend rather abruptly in my last, to attend Colonel Worthley, who, with his usual kindness, had called to pay his morning devoirs to us. I had Scarcely answered his polite inquiries after my health, before we heard a carriage stop, and a very loud rapping at the door bespoke the approach of Some other visitor. You may imagine how agreeably Surprised I was to hear Sir Charles Montague announced — He entered the drawing-room with that peculiar grace which you know accompanies every movement of his. I think I never Saw him look So well as he did' that morning. He has,. with their fashions, acquired enough of the French tnaniere to render him elegant and agreeable, without running into the extremes of ridiculous foppery, which make many of our nobility return from Paris true emblems of the monkey who went abroad to See the world. He Seems to have adhered strifuy to the plan which he Set out with; a resolution of travelling merely to acquire a per
seisin

  113
fe(5t knowledge of the world, and to embellish his mind. He always possessed that native politeness which Scarce Paris could improve; — nor has he thought it necessary to divest himself of that genuine nobleness of Sentiment which is the characteristic of a true Englishman.
Sir Charles complimented me on the recovery of my looks. — How dangerous, ju lia, is flattery from his lips! Though well convinced his expreshons of praise to me are nothing more, — still they please, and occasion my heart to palpitate with joy. -- -- -
His voice — his eyes — Second his words, and make the whole object but too captivating.
“Sir Charles” cried Lady Arne, “our Seeing you in the country So Soon after your arrival, is an unexpected pleasure : it was na ■tliral to fear that London would have monopolised you at this time.”
“Why, Southampton, ” cried I, “in this dreary feason, must wear a dull aspect to one just arrived from gallia’s metropolis where
nothing reigns but gaiety and mirth” -- -
He begged my pardon, and could almoji, he Said, find m his heart to reproach me for sup poftng him pojfejfed of so little tafie, as not to
prefer
•r
114 MAS (LU E R A D E S; or,
prefer the place where I was., to euery other This was repeated in no Serious manner. So as to carry the appearance of attachment with it — but in a strain of gallantry. He added, “I told your Ladyship that I should undoubtedly be led to take this road, Soon after you had fixed your residence here— — was not without a hope of being able to attend Lady and Lord Arne and your Ladyship hither; but Col. Hinchinbrook claimed an engagement I was under to accompany him, his sister, and aunt, on a little tour— — knowmiss Hinchinbrook, Lady louisa : she is just arrived from Paris, where J Saw her often — A fine girl I think !” I answered in the affirmative— — Worthley (who, it Seems, was acquainted with Sir Charles at Modena) alked, “May we hope for the pleasure of your company in this country for any time, Sir Charles? I fear not, as I fuppose you came down on a party of pleasure.” -- The other answered, “My stay will be uncertain — the happiness of meeting you will be a strong inducement to me to prolong it. — I have been on a flying visit to Ormshy -- paid a shorter one at Broadlands, and, to be as good as my word, came on to Southampton, accompanied by Budenall, Mr.
Dacre,
  115
✓
Dacre, and Frederic Montague, who Speak of returning to town in two days, and are importunate with me to go with them.”
“Why, if I am not a little out in my calcu ‘ lation. Sir Charles, ” cried Lord Arne; “I believe you will find this place rather dull, if you trust to its amusements, and mean to Spend any time here, which I am Selfish
enough to hope you will -- -- -- but I know
enough of your prudence to be convinced that you ford’aw this, and have guarded properly against it, by Selecting in your imagination Some beateous object, who will, from the dearth of entertainments here, be at leisure to listen to Such soft tales, as must
stow from your lips -- Eh!! louisa!
what do you think.? -- -- Now, it has been
always my opinion, that old love cannot be totally therefore I guess the
person— — be that as it may, we are not the less Sensible of the honour you do us.”
Was not Lord Arne very unkind, Julia? He will never debar himfdf of a moment’s gratification by Sparing his jelt. His amiable wife, ever delicate, ever considerate of another’s feelings, ashed Sir Charles, “Whether Miss Hinchinbrook intended visiting
Southampton ?”
ii  ,
Southampton ?” and Smiled as she Spoke. He returned a negative to her question, and Lord Arne was just about to convince us, he did not mean her, when his Lady prevented him, by giving a quick turn to the conversation.
It was silly of me to feel embarrassed. Had I been ignorant of the female Lord Arne alluded to, I should not have been the least affected— — you know, he was always laughing at me about Sir Charles before he went abroad, and firmly believes we
have jull a partiality to each other, How
ridiculous of him to entertain Such a notion, feeing So little cause for it!
I had now an opportunity of alking Sir Charles concerning mysweet friend.. — He gave me a description of your ball, which he Said was Superb. — I cannot pretend to express his encomiums on my Julia, — Upon my word, had miss Hinchinbrook heard the profusion of praises he bestowed on you — she must have possessed more heroism than our Sex generally do on these occasions, to have kept the green eyed monfieny at that moment, in proper Subjedtion. He admires Almeria much, but could not help acknowledging that the divine Julia (to use his own term) reigned triumphant een that night.
Sir
 : 117
Sir Charles had passed near an hour with us, when a Servant entered,, and presented me with a letter. I looked at the Superscription, and joy visibly overspread my countenance at beholding your writing. Lady Arne congratulated me on a pleasure which, thd. so repeatedly received., seemed each time to bring an added value with it. Sir Charles untreated me to use no ceremony — but to read my packet — for my features too evidently betrayed that much I wished to do So — and exclaimed,
“How happy must the object be, who occasions Such pleafino; sensations in your breast !’^
“I assure you. Sir, ” replied I “it is one who is entitled to every tender Sentiment it
contains.”
He certainly must have known that that object was my Julia Herbert; he could not have Supposed it another: and I was So prepossessed with this opinion, that I never thought of mentioning your name till he was gone; and I then recolledted it would have been better to have confirmed his Surmise that the letter came from you.
Sir Charles goes this evening to a ball given by Lord Fitzoshorne, at which I am engaged

ii  ,
gauged to dance with Col. Worthley. Sir Charles did not alk me— — wonder at it — Perhaps he imagines my being an invalid will prevent my joining in the Set — and probably means to keep me in countenance by not dancing himself— — at the Same time, my vanity tells me, he hopes to have a tete-a-tete now and then, when the young part of the company are engaged in this gay diversion, and the old at cards or perhaps he
knows that my hand is to be Col. worthley’s for the night! — — — Yet how So } — In short, I will not perplex myself, but wait the result.
-- -- How arrogant these conjedlures are, Ju'
iia! Indeed, you must allow them to be So -- » and I cannot vindicate them.
I was not Sorry when Sir Charles and Col, Worthley departed, that 1 might peruse your letter.
And here let me congratulate you on the Sweet almeria’s arrival. — Much do I long to embrace her -- amiable girl! What an age does the time appear to me since I had last that happiness!
I am amazed at Capt. Walpole, Julia! How could he adl with So much impropriety \ — As for Lord Seymour, I do think he behaved indelicately in applying to Lady
Pen
  119
Pemberton, z£x.tx your giving him a positive
refusal- -- can a man be happy in the
possession of a hand that he owes to compulsion, and not the voluntary choice of the heart? It is an mnigraa to me — Luckily Lady Pemberton is one that will neither compel, nor persuade, you to a match you difiike — but my Lord Seymour proved, in his application to her, that he did not think as worthily of her as she deserved— — he has refined notions on most occasions! — It is certain, this ridiculous love makes fools even of Sensible men! My Lord is certainly amiable, tho’ not formed to be connected with you— — are all apt to Soar high in our expedations, and vanity is as predominant over reason in one Sex, as in the other, — I dare answer, when he addressed you, he had not a doubt of Succeeding.
‘‘ None without hope e’er lov’d the brightest fair. But love will hope where reason would despair.”
Sir Charles told me of the agreeable Col. elliot’s attention to Aimeria, If I
judge right, that connexion will never be approved of by Lady Pemberton and your brother. Let her look well to her heart, lest
it become a fugitive — So elegant a person as
elliot’s*
120 MAS(^UERADES; or,
elliot’s, So Sensible, and withal So worthy as he is — he will raise Such powerful advocates in his favour, as must require much philosophy on her part to withstand — and yet the match would be So unequal, it should not be thought of.
I must leave you : the hour for dressing is come, - — tomorrow you shall receive a full account of this evening’s entertainment.
* ^ *
^ ^ ^ ^ ^
^ ^ Ic ^ ^
« ^ «
^ ^
Wednesday Morning.
I am now Seated to perform my promise tho’ the fatigue, which is the consequence of dancing, renders the task rather arduous.
After Spending the requisite time at my toiler, and ornamenting my person with unusual care, I entered the drawing-room. — Col. Worthley and Some gentlemen were 'Waiting to escort us — We got into our carriages, and proceeded to Lord fitzoshorne’s. — I was hardly Seated in the ballroom, before I was taken out to dance a minuet. —
That ceremony performed, and I returned to
"tny
/ •
  izr
my place, I perceived Sir Charles Montague enter the room -- Heavens! what
were my emotions! I think I never Saw a more captivating figure in my life — He was dressed most Superbly — -' — Every per son’s attention Seemed fixed on him the instant he appeared— — Saluted each lady that he knew as he walked up the room, but looked with an inquisitive eye amongst them for Some particular object— — — .vanity, ever too presunhptuous, told me that ohjeft was louisa Sydney — Alas! my Julia, it was no other than miss stephenson, She Soon caught his eye, and he was ri vetted to her side still we stood up to dance. He then stepped to me, and, holding one end of my fan, cried,
“Lady louisa, it is almost dangerous to look at you! — you even outvie, if it be possible, your former Self.” — “In ugliness, Sir Charles, you mean, no doubt “Heavens! what a thought!” and he quitted me to claim his partner, as every gentleman was taking his place in the row.? — I need not say that Miss Stephenson danced with him -- She really looked very pretty.
J refused to go down the third country
vol. I. G danccj
122 M A S que R A D K S; or,
dance, pleading as an excuse my ill health, and unfortunately placed myself near Lady Mary Athill, who, by her trifling conver ■ fation, endeavoured to draw my attention from much more pleasing objects. Her dress, however, could not escape my notice, the singularity of which attracted eve yj ont’s gaze. She wore a yellow Satin Italian nightgown, trimmed with Silver gauze; purple ribbons laced with silven Her hair dressed in curls, or rather dishevelled, which Seemed to be intentionally done. Three large feathers, a purple, a yellow, and a white'one, nodded over the Superstrudture ' that was enormous on her head. One straggling lock of hair hung down the left side of her neck, which was meant to appear careless, and be the harbouraoe of a hun
o
died Cupids — but qnluckily it had received too much pomatum for that purpose; for it looked as if it had been plastered down : this favourite lock (Such I suppose it to be) was by no means indebted to nature for the most trifling twist. — Figure to yourst i.f, Julia, the person of Lady Mary Ati ’d thus attired I — yet, believe me, tbo’ many
opporcunitiea offered for indulging a vein
‘of
a
%
  iij
of raillery, I did not once amuse myself at the expense of this antiquated maiden. Had 1 given her the least encouragement, she would have entertained me with an account of the genealogy, age, zxidi demerits of every individual in the room.
Lord Arne came up to her, and addressed her in the following words:
“Lady Mary, I am ashamedof having been So long in the room without paying my devoirs to the most charming woman in it —
I have wished to kiss your hand, but could not obtain one moment in which I should not have been thought an intruder. How naturally do the bees stock where the Sweets are! Your Ladyship has been So Surrounded, as if each gentleman was anxious to convince the world that he was by no means deficient in point of taste“
“dear, my Lord, ” returned Lady Mary, “you are a great flatterer! We should really be absorbed in vanity, were we to pay too much attention to what you Say.”
“Pardon me, my Lady — few of your Sex afford that field for our admiration to work upon, which you may justly boast.
G 2 “Oh
/
124
“Oh dear, my Lord! — be silent, I entreat you, on this Subject. Consider how fatal a one it is to expatiate too long upon -- we are So apt to be led away by Such pleasing discourse! — and was your Lordship a single man .with So, much judgments I absolutely would not listen to you.”
“My judgement, my Lady, never discovers itself but in its distindion of the most perfect of women — More cruelly charming this night than ever! — Upon my word. Lady Mary, you have an immense deal to answer for! What mischief has not this beautiful lock (pointing to the little straggler) done! — What temptation is here for the fatal Jheers /-•» — — I have been So petitioned to do a desperate ad, that I would advise you to remove it, or the consequences cannot be told.”
“Heaven forbid, my i.ord! That would be unpardonable indeed! Nothing could recompense the loss — Tho’ trifling it might appear, I should be tempted to exclaim with Belinda,
“For ever curs’d be that detested day, Which stole my best, my favourite curl away!”
How trivial to you would be the loss,
com
  125
compared to the acquisition of him who gained it I.”
Can I describe to you, my Julia, the distress I was in to keep my countenance during this conversation.? Imposhble! — Though it was carried on in a low voice on both sides, Lord Arne contrived to let me, and the Lady who. Sat on Lady mary’s right hand (Mrs. nelson), overhear it. I could bear it no longer; and was glad to accept of Col. worthley’s offer, to make up a cotillon Set. 1 accordingly left Lord Arne to pursue his amusement with Lady Mary, who deserves no cornpaffion, as she brings this ridicule upon herself by her intolerable vanity and levity; foibles ill suited to a pcrson turned Some years of sixty.
Until last night, Julia, I believed myself disinterested about Sir Charles any further than a friend should be — I'he distress I felt at Seeing him single out miss ste phenson convinced me in a moment that I
loved him -- -- -- Yes, Julia, — I repeat it — ■
I love him, and am destined to be attached to one who has no heart to give me. miss
■stephenson possesses montague’s : -- -- and
G 3 yet,
126
V
yet, Julia, could you have believed that mere friendship actuated Sir charles’s behaviour to me— — has been unkind, I think, to show So much partiality in his manner
-- -- -- -- -- ^ — But I will not complain, —
neither must I remain where he is -- My return to somerville house shall be Speedy — I reasoned with myself a length of time, and tried to fancy that my esteem — ly ejleem — was hurt at his not paying me the accustomed attention; but that notion s(x>n vanished, wlien I Suffered pain on his bestowing encomiums on miss Stephen Son. — I was not little enough to envy her for her personal perfedlions — that you will easily believe — yet 1 could not yield to her a prediledlion in his favour without honour — I wished every one else to admire her. 1 confess I should have received pleasure at hearing Sir Charles find Some defect
in her. -- -- But such meanness was my
bosom fraught with, that I Sought for opportunities of extolling miss stephenson to him, as if afraid of being Sufpeded of the truth — I was deservedly punished for this abjedtnefs of soul, by the praises he lavished her; : — — — My dear Julia! how I despise

t
tvhat YOU WILL. 127
spise myself! Add not your contempt to
my own humiliating ressedlions! -- -- -- In
vain I Search my own heart, and lament that our minds should be So differently
formed. -- -- -1 am not able to discover in
my breast one of those noble, generous Sentiments, with which your bosom is So replete— — — Say confession of a fault, is commencing the road to amendment; I wish to experience this truth. At presenr, chagrin and mortification exert their dominion very powerfully over me —
*
» * * ^
% ^ ^ «
How insulting, Julia, was it of Sir Charles, when out of mil’s stephenson’s hearing, to apologise to me for not having afued the favour of my hand! — I forget what reason he gave for not doing it. — Sure, he did not perceive I was disappointed! I thought I had concealed my feelings extremely well — but, upon his Speaking thus to me, my delicacy took the alarm — I told him he ho -- mured me much by his intention; which I iould not have profited ofy as my promise ta
g4 danci
\
\
\
I
MAS Qjj E k AD ie S; or, -
dance' with Colonel ivorthley had been of tt very long Jlanding, — His excusing himself to me was very odd! I had no right certainly to expect a preference to miss stephenson, or to any other lady; and an apology where it is not required, I rather think a reflection upon rhe understanding of those to whom we make it, by Supposing them pleased with what we are conscious is not their due.
.Colonel Worthley Seldom quitted me. They told me his behaviour was conspicu ous. He accused me of beingout of Spirits;
, I imputed it to an ill natured head aek. Sir Charles, in an interval between the dances. Seated himself by me, and rallied me on
the coloness attention- -- fancy he is no
favourite of his; for he did not Speak of him in the warm terms of recommendation that every one elsc does; yet Said nothing to his disadvantage. I do not believe he could. — In answer, I expatiated on the amiable character Col. Worthley bore, and extolled him as he deserved. He turned to me with a penetrating look, and, sighing, Said,
‘‘ I wish you thought as well of a particular

lar friend of mine !” He paused— — iheri ashed, “Pray, Lady louisa, did you knor/ Lord osmond, either before he left Lng. land, or in France
“No, Sir, I never had that pleasure— — dare Say, if he b your friend, his acquaintance must be a valuable circumstance — yet my good opinion, I have not the vanity to think, can do him any Service.’*
“He is not the friend 1 meant, my Lady -- tho’ I wish him as well as I do — myself— — presume to claim his friendship
in the very highest degree. ‘the picture
you drew of Col. Worthley bore too great a similitude to Ofmond to escape my notice -- asto sentiments of honour observe; — for osmond’s person is the most perfedh that ever Nature finished, and called a man. His heart and sense are equal to his form. It is rather uncommon to hear one man sounding the praises of his friend in an en thufiastic manner — I beg pardon — but it is a Subject I often indulge myself on, and feel as much pleasure from it, as you would do from hearing encomiums passed on Lady Julia Herbert. — Col. Worthley, I fancy, would be in a dangerous way, was Of
G 5 mond
130 M A S QUE R AD E S; or,
/
mond here. What a' couple would ye make !” — He did me too'much honour Said, in naming me with such an ohjeft. But at the moment I felt an inexpressible indignation, at his appearing, ^ tho’ indire(5tly, to wish us united; and why, Julia, should I have done So \ — 1 am Sure I cannot tell— — intended, no doubt, to pay me a compliment. — As he was about to reply, miss btephen son passed us.
“Is not that a prodigious fine woman. Lady louisa r
“She is indeed. Sir, and reckoned Sensir ble and amiable.”
“Your Ladyship is acquainted with her — pray is she addressed by any particular gentleman ?”
“I believe not — she is universally admired — and I think whoever calls her his, will stand a chance of being much envied.”
Why, upon my word, I do not think be will Jiand in need of any pity. -- A must nor, though, be deficient in myxtfytft to her. My long absence will bring a tax on my politeness; and I must, though with the utmost reluctance, steal from a pleasure that
i
  131
rs dangerous.^*’ As. he ended, he stew to foin his fair partner, and left me to exert what philosophy I could on the occasion. He Soon returned, and begged me to dif -- card the indifpojiticn which preyed so apparently on my Many females took un r
common pains to convince him that I was remarkably grave during the night. I thought the anxiety he expressed for me rather exulting. conscious of my own ridiculous Situation, I imagined he divined it of course, and meant to adt ungeneroufiy. Were it So -- is he any longer worthy of a pang } Surely not — Why will not my rea son gain a victory over this rebel heart! I am convinced that Sir Charles intends to recommend me to Lord Ofmond — He Said that he expected him over very Soon — and, I dare Say, will be zealous to unite tua friends that he boasts of ejieem
ing so much. -- -- -1 will now conclude this
painful topic>"i am ashamed of having been engrossed so long by it.
I shall give you comfort, I am Sure, my Julia, by informing you that I find a daily amendment in my health — once more established, I will fiat ter my
G 6 sels
132  ,
Self, that my Spirits must gain strength, and teach me (with the help of your excellent counsel) to Subdue this invading passion— — I have written to you, I find my mind more tranquil. — Adieu, my dear Julia, let not your affection Suffer any diminution towards
w
Your
Louisa syoney,
4
  133 To Lady Louisa syonev,
Portman s quare.
Each day brings with it additional regret, my louisa, that we cannot now go down to Pemberton Castle. Fond as I am of that delightful mansion, its present chief charm with me is its being So near the Spot that at this time holds my amiable friend. Unfavourable as the season is for travelling, could I follow my inclinations, I would Soon be in Hampshire; for
“Tho’ the fields have lost their lovely die; No cheerful azure decks the Sky;
Yet still i’d bless the louring day :
— — — louisa’s there, and all is gay.”
My mother would certainly not refuse me, ' were I to ask her permission to go down to
you; but then -- -- -1 know she would be
uneasy at my absence, and even in your arms, Louisa, I could have no pleasure, whilst her bosom was corroded by an anxious thought.
I am astonished at Sir Charles monta gue’s method of proceeding — He certainly
imagines
1
m
134 MAS Q, U E R A D E S; o r,
imagines, as Mr. Melmoth (the principal obstacle in his way) is removed, that he may keep your hopes fears alive, by flirting at one time with a lovely young woman like. Miss stephenson, and at another (fearing your heart would break) withdrawing his attention totally from her, and wholly offering it to you — then, lest you should be raised to too great a height of happiness and grow presumptuous, he deserts you, to distinguish Some other objetst, and returns again when inclination or vanity prompts iiim to do So. How little do we value our own felicity, when we vest the Lords of the Creation with power to destroy it! — It is evident, that the most perfect of them should be kept ignorant, till the marriage day, of the passion they inspire, when, for example, even a Montague makes an ungenerous use of the knowledge he has derived from So prying a penetration. That he has discovered the preference you give him, is beyond a doubt. The men, Louisa, charge us with vanity to a monstrous degree— — them but Search their own breasts, and if they do not find that it reigns more powerfully with them, I am
much
  135 much mistaken. Never do one of the Sex
w
fail of putting the most flattering interpretation on an insignificant look, or word, which generally in itself means nothing; and they most commonly coqstrue a Severe Sentence, dictated by the heart, quite the reverse to what was intended. The most deformed, the most awkward, and, most of all, the most silly, are assuredly under the defpotism of vanity : What then must the handsome, the elegant, the clever? influenced, we find, by motives of self adoration, pardonable in a weak Sex, that calls for every allowance, but which cannot be vindicated by any excuse whatever in exalted souls, that receive every aid from much Superior educations than are thought proper to be given to females.
Why, my best louisa, accuse yourself So unmercifully ^ Be comforted, my fair friend, and rest assured that I admire your ingenuous behaviour more than I can describe — Your feelings were all natural — » Few in So embarrassed a Situation could have acted So well. — — — I am really shocked at Sir charles’s cruel conduct— — you do not blame him — I will. I am 'privileged to do
it
0
136 M AS QUE R A D E S; or,
it from being an eyewitness, before he left England, of his very particular attention .to you— — must expect no generosity from me equal to that he meets with from louisa Sydney. — Your letters — his manner— — report, convince me, that he pursued his usual mode towards you until the night of the ball. What can he mean by his warm mention of Lord osmond to you ^ If he really intends this behaviour as a trial, it will lessen him, I must acknowledge, in my opinion. To give pain to a heart that is visibly attached, merely for the pleasure of rendering its partiality more conspicuous, shows an ill natured way of thinking. --! will not Suffer my pen to express any further resentment till I hear more — It will be a difficult matter to make me give up my good opinion of Sir Charles; but it will be the infallible consequence of his persisting in So inconsistent a condud.
Methinks I am impatient for the arrival of this much tdiked.of Lord osmond : his character is always ushered with praises, that flow Spontaneoussy from the mouths of those who have Seen and been acquainted with him. He was Spoken of with enthusiasm

\
%vh at YOU WILL.
fiafm at the drawing-room yesterday. Lord s**'*'^ '*‘*t called him a Phcsnix — there was not his fellow to he found in a century he
Said. -- Upon my word, I think you had
better take Sir charles’s hint, louisa, and reserve your heart for this incomparable creature. I have heard it is an observation of Lady Mary A thill’s, (whose same has gone abroad,) that there is more pleasure in vexing than in rewarding a lover.” sup pofe you were to try! — I am glad to find that Southampton has not proved as dull as I at first thought it would at this season, though I will say in its favour, that I believe no town is happier in a colleicion of inhabitants. I Saw in the papers, that the officers quartered there have very politely instituted a Subscription assembly during Lady arne’s and your residence among them. Your account of Lady Mary has given me much laughter. Lord Arne is very wicked — pray tell him that I say So; and believe me,
Much yours,
Julia Herbert.
0
138
To Lady Julia Herbert.
Southampton.
Ah, my Julia! how arc my feelings
awakened! — How is my delicacy wounded by your confirmation of my fears! You think, then. Sir Charles has really discovered my weaknessfor him! — How poor a mortal did that minute make me in his eyes! — Alas! I have acquired none of that dissimulation which is the usual prerogative of our Sex. For the first time in my life I know the want of it; — and heartily wish myself a share of what, I till now, thanked Heaven for having formed me without
a Spark of........how shall I look at
him when next we meet! how suppress the disagreeable Sensations that will naturally arise from refiedlion !-1 blush at my folly
-- and must only endeavour, by a strict guard on my behaviour in future, to convince him that his vanity led him to fornt very erroneous conjeflures. — My pride is hurt; it will be my assistant, and Save my delicacy from being further alarmed. — This ridiculous attachment cannot long
con
V
  139
continue — Sir Charles will prevent it by his manner qs acting: : -- are a few virtues weighed down, when put into the Scale with arrogance and self conceit! — Unkind Montague I I think you have not reaped much advantage from your Second tour to Italy— — ladies of that country have filled your head with chimerical notions of vanity, by the adulation they paid you. Even sense like yours could not withstand their admiration -- it has fallen a victim to their praises.
Since my last letter to you. Sir Charles has shown great attention to us. He called yesterday with miss Stephenson and her aunt. They had heard I was indispofed with a headache, and agreed to come and sit an hour with me (the very reason why they should have kept away.j I assured them I was Sensible of the favour they did me, and my behaviour by no means contradidted that assertion. Sir Charles appeared in great Spirits; miss stephenson in no less gay a humour. The bon~mots passed very rapidly to and from each other — I was rather at a loss to determine which of the two possessed
most cleverness. miss Stephenson, 1 believe.
140 MASCLUER ADES; or,
lieve, thought Jhe was entitled to the falm; I, after much difficulty, decided (in my own mind) that Sir Charles was vidlor. I have no doubt, though, but that my partiality was stronger on the occasion than my judgement.
Before they left us. Col. Worthley came in, and, according to civstom, Seated himself near me. 1 took notice that miss sic phenfon looked a good deal confused at the distintstion he paid me— — blush overspread her face— — notwithstanding Sir Charles was at her elbow, endeavouring to make himself agreeable to her by a thousand little douceurs she had sight and hearing for no one but Worthley; and, for the first time since I became acquainted with her, I had reason to think there was foundation for a report that prevails here of her being attached to him. — I saw a consii<5l in her heart that excited my tenderest compassion — It was evident that Col. worthley’s behaviour to me caused her no small emotion. — I tried as much as possible to Seem inattentive to what he Said; and, with the utmost fervour, wished to have directed his assiduity another way. I loved the girl at
the
  141
the instant I thought her Soul labouring under those tumults which mine cannot contend with — I could almost have reproached myself for being instrumental to her Suffering — yet I was innocently So. -- -- -- Every
unkind thought of her, which arose in my breast the night of the ball, was quickly withdrawn, and Severely did I condemn it for ever having harboured them. Sir Charles took an opportunity of asking me Whether Col. Worthley had ever paid his ad > drejfes to Miss Stephenson? I told him I really did not know.
“There Seems, entrenous. Lady louisa’% cried he “a penchant on her side towards Worthley.”
“Not in the least. Sir Charles— — rather suspedicol. worthley’s heart to be the one attached. — Did he think as you do of her partiality for him, I believe he woultf Soon put it to the test, by making the earliest offer of his hand to her.”
He caught hold of my singers unawares to me, and Suddenly pressed them with a. rapturous air to his lips.
“Generous louisa! how unlike the generality of your Sex! cos Worthley does
indeed
142  ,
\
indeed wear the bondage of love — but miss stephenson insiidts it not.” —
I drew my hand hastily away, and with a look of displeasure (or it Spoke not the language of my heart) replied,
“Sir, I am surprised at this liberty, - — it is one that no gentleman is entitled to take with me.”
“Forgiveme, Madam; I meant not to offend. — My admiration transported me to use a freedom of which I cannot repent — but Say, do you really think that Worthley is attached to miss stephenson ?”
“I make no doubt but a man of his judgement must admire merit and beauty in any object;; -- Surely, they are eminently blended in miss stephenson.”
“Amiable sweetness! How Seldom do we find one female express herself So deli ^cately of another !”
“I am never flattered. Sir Charles, by receiving a compliment at the expense of my Sex.” — He would have replied, but I would not hear him, and, turning to Col. Worthley, called another Subjefi. — I perceived that I had displeafed Sir Charles —
He coloured, and looked vexed -- -- -- His
eyes
  143
eyes Sparkled too with anger, I remember. He was no doubt disappointed — He imagined I was acquainted with the situation of Miss stephenfon’s affections, and expected by his flattery to draw from me whether they were really engaged; if So, that he might give over the pursuit, and not Suffer the mortification of a rcfusal.
I am malicious enough to hope he may ad dress her. — Rejected he will be; for I don’t Suppose she can give her hand to one man, whilst another is in possession of her heart. And I think So slight a punishment he is entitled to, from his art in wishing me to betray a confidence, Supposing it were reposed in me. Heaven knows how much Sir Charles is miistaken in the intimacy he concludes Subsists between Miss stephenson and your louisa — My acquaintance with her is very slight.
Col. Worthley ashed Sir Charles where Lord osmond was?
_ _ C
“In Paris, Sir, ” replied Montague, he was, when I last heard from him. It is difficult to say exactly where he is now; I expe(5t him momently in England.” “I am glad of it, ” returned the other. ^.dvery creature who
has
0
144- M ASQ, UERADES; or,
has the happiness of knowing him, must be solicitous to See him.” Sir Charles bowed to this Speech of the colonel’s. — Lord!! they must be very intimate indeed, when they receive compliments to each other, as if paid directly to themselves! I fuppose Lord Ofmond would Jtnk his head upon his breaji for any civil thing you Said to him of Sir Charles. — Lord Arne came into the room, while Col. Worthley was Speaking, and desired to know who he was so solicitous to see? Sir Charles answered,
“We were Speaking, my Lord, of an intimate friend of mine, Lord csmond -- I dare Say your Lordship has heard of him.” “Yes, I have, Sir, and a most exalted character he bears.” “Just what he merits, ” replied Worthley.? -- “And do you
expect him shortly, Montague ?” Said Lord Arne.
“I know not my Lord, ” returned the other, “whether he may not be in Lon • don at this moment.”
“The Duke of Westmoreland, ” teried Lord Arne, “intends him as a husband for Lady Henrietta Marchmont!”
‘‘ God knows, my Lord! I think
there
IV
  145
there need be no hurry to provide for him.” -- -- -
• “Why, he is an only child, and the Sooner he is mars ied the bt tter. 11 would be a terrible thing to have no hdr for that noble fortune and title; and, if he chance to die unmarried, it will be the case. How old is osmond, Sir Charles
“four and twenty, I think, my Lord, I heard his father Say a few weeks ago.”
He waved all further conversation, I plainly perceived, relative to Lord osmond with Lord Arne; but, turning to me. Said, “Lady louisa, 1 hope to have Some merit in your eyes from my choice of a friend;
he does honour to that appellation. -- -- --
I have a presentiment, that a very uncommon circumstance will be unravelled, when he is introduced to one of our most beautiful and accomplished toajfsp He looked significantly at me. “Your words are mysterious. Sir Charles!” “Are they,
my Lady? — Well, do me the honour to remember them, and you will find them in a little while fully explained — if not, osmond shall tell you their meaning.” The latter part of this answer was Spoke in a Voi,. L H laughing
146. M ASCLUERADES; or,
0
y
laughing way. The ladies proposed to retire, as the hour for the toilet drew near. miss stephenson locked a wish that Col. Worthley would attend her (as they walked, the day being fine); but he either did not, or would not understand it — the former I hope : they left us, attended by Sir Charles only. (Sol. Worthley made his exit, in a quarter of an hour afterwards, and I directly came up to dress, for which purpose I must throw down my pen. I did intend to have deferred wtiting till evening; burr, when 1 entered my closet, the writing implements lay So temptingly, that I Sat down, and have Scribbled — an hour I declare.
» * ' * * ^
^ * « iie * ^
***** •* *
"What you read in the papers is true — the officers here have very obligingly Set on foot the subscription assemblies you mentioned. — Apropos — Speaking of news papers reminds me of the following paragraph I Saw in one yesterday: “We may assure our readers, from undoubted authority, that a treaty
of
  147
of marriage is now in agitation between the Right Hon. Lord Seymour and Lady Julia Herbert, Second sister to the Earl of Pemberton.”
I arsi called away -- -
« « ^ ^ «
4
The amiable Mr. Norton was in the drawing-room, and I was Summoned to attend him when I just now quitted you. — The pleasure 1 felt at Seeing him was quickly destroyed, by his informing me, that he > intended leaving England immediately. “But I could not depart, ” Said he, “without once more embracing my dear Louisa, and receiving her commands .to Lord Clermont — to whom I Suppose you have many mes sages to Send.” Mr. Norton brought me a letter from Sir George Sommerville, who will not hear of my returning home till my health is quite restored. I shall Seize the opportunity of my good friend’s going to Rologna to write by him to my brother, and inform him that I have entirely discarded Mr. melmoth. r ^i have often owned to you that Lord Clermont was never fond of the connedfion, though he was but too
H 2 cautious
I
/
148 MAS QJJ ERADES; or,
cautious in telling his Sentiments, as he believed me more attached to him than I really was.
Mr. Norton fuppofsd., that when he returned from abroad which would be in a year he Should find Louisa Sydney metamorphosed into Lady Louisa Montague.
I ashed, what reason he had for such a conjectures A more Substansial one, ” replied he, “than mere report.” My curiosity was excited — Not to have expressed a wish to be acquainted with what he alluded to, would have appeared unnatural, and have carried too great an air of affectation to a man who knew every movement of my soul. He spoke renigmatically., I told him, and wished he would unfold Ms meaning, He answered, “I will, Louisa. You are conscious I have always behaved inge nuousiy with you. The confidence your arrlcss, unsuspecting heart ever reposed in me, deserved to meet on my side the utmost sincerity. I professed to you the af feclion of a brother -- In that 1 deviated from candour — a much stronger attachment filled my breast than the one which we give the fraternal name to — I loved you
to
  14^
to distraction, and was obliged to Smother irijy passion. You, unfortunately for my peace, — honoured me with your confidence at the commencement of the late affair between you and Mr. Melmoth. — I heard frequently from your own lips, that you gave hima preference to every man. My hopes were at once blasted — nay more! the ungrateful business of assisting his love was imposed on me at a time that I wished to plead for myself. — He begged my friendship, which I could not in honour refuse, as 1 then thought him deserving of you, — Having no prospect myself of gaining your affection, why should I, I resseded, be fa ungenerous as to hinder his Succeeding— — is true, he will, by marrying louisa, deprive me of what I value more than life : but then— — will make her happy, — and I shall be contented in that idea. Thus I reasoned — and resolved to conceal the love
I had for you -- -- Ah 1 what consticls did
I endure, when I perceived your determination was fixed on marrying Melmoth, and that his dishpated life was become the sub jed of every tongue! And is this dear
girl, cried I, to be thus Sacrificed! — For
H 3 bid
150
bid it, friendship. — I flew to Mr. mcl moth, and made one in his nodturnal revels, hoping to show him, by degrees, the vicious plan he was pursuing. I remonstrated — He answered with a laugh, and pushed the bottle about with more eager ness. Inebriated with pernicious liquor, no wonder that he shesitated not at the commission of other crimes! — He was deaf to reason. — I could not long bear to be a partaker of his riots, when it .answered no effect; neither could I, circumstanced as I was, from a punflilio of delicacy, recommend to you to break with this unfortunate man. — Your guardian angel interfered, and Saved you from the precipice on which you stood. — You are reserved for happiness, Louisa— — Sir Charles Montague. As your friend, he ashed me, just before he left London, Whether you It ill retained any affefhonjor Mr. Melmoth? I told him. If you did, there would have been no absolute necejfity for your discarding him: your doing so was a voluntary afi. He further ashed. If I thought he food any chance of being accepted, provided he was to presume to address you? I replied, It was a ques
iion '
  151
iiofi I could not by any means pretend to an -- fwer; but that it was my opinion few men could Jo soon succeed in gaining the affefiions of any Lady as Mmfelf, — Did I Speak properly to Sir Charles, louisa ^ — Why .are you affected You do not blame me, Surely, for loving you, no more than I can you for thinking of him more favourably! — He is far better entitled to you than I am — though he cannot regard you in a greater degree. -- You were certainly inclined
to like him, (though partly engaged to Melmoth,) when he was last in England; and I easily perceived, that, if you were at liberty to elect a lover — in short, if Melmoth had not been encouraged. Sir Charles would have been the man. — Consider me no further, dear louisa, than as a friend warmly attached to your interest.’* Ah, Julia! how was my heart affected during this long Speech of Mr. norton’s! > I could only express my feelings by my
tears — He took my hand -- -- -‘‘ Why this
emotion, my louisa
“Ah, Sir, ” cried I, “how does the idea of having been, though unknowingly, the cause of pain to Such a heart as yours,
H 4 distress
: ?5^  ,
distress me! — Where must merit look for its recompense, if you are wretched 1 -- And does it depend on me to make you otherwise, and shall I refuse it? — No, no;
it must not, cannot be! -- -- If my hand
and fortune, with my unwearied ashduity to please, can give you happiness — can be considered by the best of men as an adequate return for Such matchless goodness — they shall be yours! — You shall not longer remain without my heart — Allow it but a little time — just to shake off its present
weakness -- -- 1 will not deceive you — you
have guessed the situation of it — and then I dare answer, it will for ever after be de >'oted to you alone. It is from Such a Soul as yours that I can expect felicity. — Receive the offer I do not blush to make you, dear Sir! — you best deserve it.”
“No, my Louisa” ” he, “I will not Suffer the generosity which has hitherto o uidec Tie to forsake me now. — To take advantage of the compassion I have excited in your gentle bosom, would make me despicable to myself. great as the temptation
is, — I will withstand it— — happy,
dear louisa! -- give me your friendship, and
let
N
  153
let this conversation be buried in oblivion.’* He burst into tears, and left the room abruptly — but returned in a few minutes, quite composed.
“I have many apologies, ” Said he, “to make to louisa for acting this unmanly part. -- -- 1 must go to Italy; with
all mysheroism, I cannot stay and See you married. When that event is over, I will return, and be contented with my fate. — You must write to me frequently, and tell me all that concerns you.”
I assured Mr. Norton, that he was certainly wrong in imagining that Sir Charles intended to make proposals to me. To convince him that he was, I related to him how he had behaved to me since he came to southampton“ “upon it, ” he answered, “he only meant to try mur affeflion — I acknowledge it is an unkind method of acting with women of Sensibility, and too commonly pradised.^ — Our feelings are not So refined as yours; we are more Selfish, and consider not the impropriety, -- Mon
tague’s notions are in Some respeds (besides) particular. — Perhaps he wanted to find whether you had not a leaning towards
H 5 Worth
154 MAS (LU E RA D E S; or,
Wdrthley, whose assiduity I have heard of; and thought his expedient a good one.”
Mr. Norton then joined Lord and Lady Arne, to give me time to compose my agitated mind. — I Soon went to them, and did not again quit shy excellent friend, till the disagreeable Summons was given for his departure, by his being informed that his servants were ready. Our parting was attended with many tears on both sides— — I Saw his chaise drive off, what were my emotions! You can best judge of them, who have So feeling a heart. — I cannot expatiate on Mr. norton’s merit — there could be no bounds to the fubjedt r and it is time to send this enormous packet away.
In Spite of all that Mr. Norton Said, I am positive Sir Charles has not a thought of your louisa — He might have had, till he Saw Miss stephenson — but she stepped across me, and has robbed me of my captive. I begin to feel very easy about it. —
How blessed should L be to see my Julia! Too flattering idea! You must not be encouraged. On this topic I did not dare trust shy pen till I had almost got to the
end
  155
end of my paper, lest my unavailing wishes for a circumstance So very unlikely to take place, should have thrown me into the horrors. -- For worlds I would not have you do anything that could give Lady Pemberton a moment’s uneasiness— — dear girl!
I am ever
Most truly your
\
Louisa Sydney
%
/
/

\
H 6 7'
✓
$
\
V
156 MAS Q.U ERADES; or,
To Lady Louisa syonev.
Pori man square.
For heaven’s Sake, my amiable friend I
was Mr. norton’s passion for you anything new — Certainly no circumstance was ever plainer! — Ah! how deserving is he of your friendship I — So lively, yet So polite! So Sensible, yet So diffident! — Why, louisa,
cannot -- -- But I have done — Your heart is
engaged, and all the virtues we are charmed with in Mr. Norton, have also centred, with accumulated lustre, in the person of Sir Charles Montague. — How go you on? — Surely, after what has passed, you are no longer the stave of anxiety! -- Depend upon it. Sir Charles will very Soon make you acquainted with the preference he gives you. Be also convinced, that he is furnished with reasons he holds good for having So long kept you in suspense. That a wor man (in the full force of that appel i^tion) should acst inconsistently with that character in the most trivial point, has ever appeared a paradox to me: therefore, I
cannot
  157
cannot form a notion of the uncertainty of
his declaration, -- -- However, be Speedy in
informing me of your transadlions.
Lady Percival tells me, that it is strongly rumoured amongst Several of her acquaintances, that I am shortly to marry Lord Seymour; whilst others pretend to more knowledge, and say, that I have dismissed him., and listen to Lord Budenall. —
“Let them Say what they will, dear Lady Percival, ’^ cried I; “the world will talk and, if it prevents, for ever So short a time, more censorious conversation, is welcome to make connedlions for me I never thought of.” Lord Seymour tries by perseverance to gain my favour — “Give yourself no more trouble, my Lord — My good opinion you have ever had; my grateful esteem you will always command; but to make yourself master of my affections, is an impossibility, and without them I will never bestow my hand.” This I have Said often to him — He sighs — and answers— — Lady Julia! — you love Some happy object— — is that which causes you to be thus insensible to my misery.” ^ it is in vain to protest that my heart is free — He looks with a fuspicious eye on each man that approaches me: —
nay,
158
nay, this very evening he presumed to tell me he had discovered the incognito who pojfejfed my heart, and had so well barricaded each avenue to it, that no rival could gain access. 1 turned from him, with a very vexed air I believe, and made him no answer— — followed, and repeated what he had Said. I replied, he was welcome to make what conjectures he pleased: as they did not
AFFECT ME, they could not OFFEND ME. Hc
looked in a passion, and Sat Sullen the rest of the evening.
What an infatuation must there be in cards, that they can chain people to them for so many hours together! — How agitated have I Seen a beautiful countenance at the falling of a duce, a knave, cc. — and after all, for what Why, for the despicable hope of gaining, or fear of losing,
a few paltry pieces of orel was drawn
into many cross resseflions on this subject, by being obliged to sit a tedious while at whist; and Snould have remained much longer at it, had not Mr. Montague (Sir charles’s first cousin) obligingly taken my cards at my request. — But with this aversion, how terrible a figure would your friend make in the beau monds, did she
not
  159
not endeavour to conceal it! — I certainly should be expelled the Society of our modern heauic and belles— — called “a perfefi hyeenav — and stared at as Something horrible when I appeared in public. What a tyrant is custom! It Subjects us to mix with cha ra6lers not Suited to our taste, and to adopt foibles we despise. “To appear singular” (as a much celebrated author Says) “shows Something amiss either in the heart or headto avoid which, we must accord to times and modes, provided our principles
start not at them. -- -- Goodnight, dear
louisa!
% % ^ ^
Tuesday., Three dclock.
We have been amusing ourselves all the morning with Seeing the gentlemen fkait on the canal in Kensington Gardens, Lady Pemberton, Lady Percival, Almeria and myself, agreed to walk there, and return in the coach: my brother. Col, Elliot, Sir James Westbrook, and Mr. Montague, attended us. Several gentlemen had appointed to meet us at the canal, provided the frost continued as impenetrable as it then
was. Accordingly, on our arrival, most of
them
*.
I
io M A S (LU E RA D E S; or,
them were jhewing off all the airs and attitudes So graceful an exercise admits of. Was my heart to be caught by external perfetlion only, it would indubitably be in danger of falling a victim to a handsome figure in the inimitable movement of ikait ing. This idea struck me on beholding my brother. You cannot think how charmingly he looked! — You may laugh, louisa, at my vanity, — but I assure you, I was not singular in my admiration of him. -- Lady Walpole, miss Pelham, and miss edg cumb came to us, as they had promised to do. My heartfelt for the latter, whose eyes Spoke unutterable love for Lord Pemberton : she could observe no one but him. Finding it very cold; I laid hold of miss edgcumb’s arm, and we strolled at a Small distance from the rest, to put a little warmth into our limbs; which we complained had lost all feeling, from remaining So long without stirring. Lord Pemberton took off his ikaits, and, running between us, vowed he would interrupt a tke a tete. “Will you not permit me, my charming miss Edgcumb cried he. “Your Lordship will make us very happy by giving
 ' ir
ing us your company, ” answered the Sweet girl. She Seemed So confused — So pleascd, and devoured with So greedy an ear the compliments he paid her, that I should Soon have discovered, had I not done it before, which way her choice turned in wishing for an
adorer. -- -- My affection for this excellent
girl makes me desirous she would transfer her inclinations to Some other deserving object; for I am Sure my brother will never marry any but Sophia Nevill, his first cousin. Lord Pemberton wdiilst a child (they Say) was always unhappy when from her : the attachment was reciprocal, and has continued inviolable and unabated to this day. She is exactly ten months older than I am; her person is exquisitely handsome; she is Sensible; and her heart is one of the best that ever was created; her temper all
gentleness and sweetness- -- -- by this
description, if they are not formed for each other!
The Duke of North ington could not bear the thought of sending Sophia abroad when my mother carried us — He had but just lost his wife; she was his only child, and to part with all the comfort he had, was too much. At last, finding it necessary to
com
i62 mas Q, tr E R A D E S J or,
complete her education, he Summoned up resolution, and carried her over to Paris Some little time before Lady Pemberton left it; which is the reason you were not acquainted, as you quitted the convent above two years before my Sister Caroline and I did. The places my uncle held in England prevented a longer absence from thence than two or three months, or I believe he would have Settled as near her as possible. My mother returned at the time she allotted, after having voluntarily banished herself five years, that her daughters might doubly benefit by the advantage of foreign improvements received under the immediate inspedlion of her own eye. She had an elegant chateau taken in Paris for herself, carried us over, and put us under the tuition of her very particular friend, our much loved Superior. She visited us daily, taking us out now and then, as you may remember, to Spend a week or fortnight with her, by which means we had an opportunity of knowing the best company that inhabit, and constantly resort to, that charming city. Caroline and I were happy to attend Lady Pemberton to England; but Almeria was like one frantic it the idea of leaving her friend
behind
I
  163
behind — nor was the Soul of Sophia less agitated. My uncle prevailed on his amiable Sister to let Almeria stay a year longer, which she the more readily agreed to, as my Sister was extremely young. Lady Pemberton would have remained herself, but for the indilpensable engagement she was under to Lord Mortimer, to bring my sister to England the year after he had Seen and made proposals for her at Paris.
Two months ago the Duke went over, and brought his daughter and niece to England. He has a fine seat between Dover and Canterbury, where the late duchefs’s mother is fond of residing. Sophia is now with her at this place, and there Almeria (as I told you) passed a week in her way to London. I apprehend my brother will have the nuptials completed as Soon as possible. I already love Lady Sophia with the affection due to a sister.
I will conclude this with a wish that my sensations this night at Covent-garden playhouse may be exaflly opposite to those I experienced the last time I was there. — I am, my Louisa, your faithful
Julia Herbert.
f
164 M A S CUE R A D E Sj oa,
ISO Sir Edward Fitzwilliams.
cjarges streei,
COME, my friend, and exult! — Come
and behold your once lively Elliot, who defied the power of female charms, fallen an humble victim at the shrine of beauty, and sighing at the feet of the most obdurate woman in England — Yes, Fitzwilliams, —
“The haughty, gallant, gay Lothario” —
is totally metamorphosed — No more docs one of those epithets belong to me— — more must you fly to me for couniel — Your application came at the worst nick of time. * — — What, tho’your Sophia despiles you —
I could lay ten to one that her lover is not more Scorned than Almeria herbert’s. —
I cannot Say, “Forget her, Fitzwilliams !” — My own heart bears witness that I should recommend an impossibility to you.
Too confident of my insensibility, and laughing at love (at least in the romantic sense of the word), I thought to have flirted with Lady Almeria, — and quitted her when
tired ’
  165
tired of the amusement (the way with us all); but how have I mistaken my own strength, and her merit! — You have never Seen Lady Almeria — take a short Iketch of her beautiful person :
She has the most delightful dark blue eyes I ever beheld— — one moment they are all foftness and trembling Sensibility — at another, replete with fire and vivacity; long silken eyelashes infringe them— — ncse is very handsome— — lips the vivid colour of Vermilion : ten thousand dimples and little Cupids ambush about them: when they open, they discover two rows of the finest pearl Set in coral — Her shin is white as the lily -- Her cheeks are tinged with a lovely red — Her face is well turned, inclining rather to a round than an oval — Her hair is a light brown: art cannot confine it; Several locks curl about the prettiest forehead in the world — She has a dimple in the centre of her chin, that would, without any other beauty, captivate hearts by dozens — Her stature is tali; every limb Seems turned with the justest Symmetry: her figure is
really elegant beyond description. what
shall I Say of her mind .^ -- a mind formed
by
i66 M AS QUE RAD E Sj or,
by Minerva, and improved by the muses! — I should injure her in attempting to dili neate it; for no words can do it justice. — Lady Almeria is mistress of every accomplishment: she excels in each, more particularly in dancing and music she sings like an angel, and is always ready to oblige, vrhen called upon.,
I have inevitably lost my heart, fitz williams. — The truant will never more return to its master.. i was by Some accident
left alone with the Sweet Almeria the other morning — By an irresistible impulse I dropped on one knee. Seized her hand, and presumptuoussy stammered out “I love you!” — She blushed indeed — but it was with indignation; and, having assured me (in a manner mortifyingly indifferent) that my gallantry was lost on her, with the utmost composure ashed How I liked the new opera? I know not what answer I made, but, hurt to the Soul, I hastily arose, and wished her a good morning — I endeavoured to assume an air of sang froid, -- 1 met Lord Pemberton
on the stairs. I am Sure he must have observed my confusion, though he was
4elicate enough to take no notice of it. —
Last
  167
Last night I Saw Lady Pemberton, her two paragons Lady Percival, and Some others of the party, at the Festino. — I thought Lady Almeria never looked So divinely. — I asked her to dance : she thanked me; jhe was engaged to Sir John Benyon^ He, happy man! was her partner for the night — had leave to whisper in her ear, — to take her Snowy hand! — Ah! Fitzwilliams! does hell afford greater pangs than I endured last night! — Once I perceived a Seat vacant by her; I fiew to it -- - “Lady Almeria,
’* cried I, “deign to hear me; vouchsafe to look with pity on the wretched Elliot; — Suffer me to paint my love — my misery !’* She laughed and exclaimed, “What still that melancholy face! Why, your looks are enough to inspire me with ennui. -- -- If love puts on Such a countenance,
Heaven defend me from it! For god’s sake, resume the agreeable — you do not know how much better it becomes you.” — “Charming vivacity !” returned I; “but do not jest thus, dear Lady Almeria,
with a heart oppressed.” -- - “I wish you
would follow my example, ” Said she, and
jeji too; then I should like to listen to you,
as
16-8 MAS(^UERADES; or,
as I used to do — but now! — you are So Serious! — and I hate Serious people.” As she ended, she gave her hand to the exulting Benyon, who waited for her to rejoin the dance. She loves him, my friend! Her eyes, her expressive eyes confess it; and I am doomed to wretchedness! — Once, as I stood near them, 1 heard him Say, Ah! Lady Almcria, none loves like me !” She Smiled on Benyon — the happy Benyon!
with benignity and sweetness. on my
soul, my Edward, I cursed and envied him.
I am not So blinded by my passion, as not to wish, if Sir John Benyon is the man she prefers, that he may make her blessed — But oh! can I bear to See her give herself to another! It will be a dreadful circumstance. -- Yet how Selfish, how romantic
are my notions! My fortune So Small— — never wished it greater till I knew Lady Almeria. And would I Subject the woman I dote on, to undergo a thousand little inconveniences that from the Splendour of her Situation she has hitherto been a stranger to! Perish the thought! Well then, Fitzwilliams, I will take the hardy
resolu
w
  169
resolution of abandoning her; — no more fiiall her ear be toriiiented with my love — 1 yield it (with reluctance) to a worthier object; no more shall I have the rapturous enjoyment of leading her in the dance — of listening to the harmonious accents of her voice; -- no more shall I sit behind her at the opera, and observe, with transport, the admiring eyes of each beholder fastened on her. — — — * I will quit my ^imeria, — and the only consolation left me will be in going over again in idea the happy moments I have passed in her company, and in bestowing a few sighs on the manes of my departed joys.
I have a good opportunity of putting, my resolution in force — this minute have I heard, that my regiment is ordered immediately to America. There if my prophetic Spirit says true, — I shall either acquire fame and fortune enough to make me more deserving of Lady al meria, or at once be released from the niisery that corrodes the breast of,
Your faithful friend,
Charles Elliot,
vol. L I P. S.
k *
\
lyo M ASCLUERADES; or,
P. S. I know you will call me a madman— — if it Saves me from absolute de spair, let me enjoy my insanity. I hope to See you ere I leave London; in the mean time, adieu!
/
stc Lady Julia Herbert,
Southampton, Monday Night.
Last Thursday evening a large party Supped with us, after our having danced cotillons from nine o’clock till
twelve. -- -- Sir Charles offered me his hand
for the first dance. He was particularly attentive to me all the night, though 1 was not happy enough to have him constantly for my partner. His eyes Spoke to your louisa a language that his tongue has never used: — they told me, ‘ that his heart was
devoted to ii- -- mine palpitated !-
Ah, my Julia! Sir Charles followed this plan once before. — L must not be a Second time deceived by ks yeua deux, and
pressures
f
 71
pressures of the hand : — and yet! — ah! Julia! he is dear — very dear to me!
* * * * *
It was proposed, and immediately agreed to, that we should make an excursion to
tomorrow. We shall be a large assemblage; not less than Seventeen or eighteen in number. Lord Arne piques himself on his choice of agreeable persons in composing a party; this, he boasts, will be very select. Entre nous I Seldom found the expectation answered, when much raised on Such occasions; but I hope my good i.iord will meet no disappointment to his. i.ord and Lady Arne, miss Wrottessey, Mr. Bishop, Sir Charles and myself, are to ride to by;; rest go in chaises I am informed that Col. Worthier is be
0
low, and that I am wanted at the card table.
% * ^ ^
r
Tfuefday Mormng.
We are preparing to Set out: tie morning is beautiful,, and everything promises well for our pashng an agreeable day -- -- -
So! miss Wrottessey has changed her
12 mind,
172 M A S QUE R AD E S; or,
mind, and begs to he excused from riding., as jhe is no very good horje woman., and will on ly terrify us with her fears \ therefore chooses to accompany Mrs. N elf on in her chaise. Mr. Bishop, too, has Sent an apology : sudden bufimfs calls him to London. — Nay, my good Lord Atne! do not fret; we shall do very well without him— — Charles waits to put me on my horse. — I must leave you, my Spirits are not in the highef order for a party; but no matter.
f
We are just returned — you will be Surprised at what I am going to relate— — 'after you have read it, whether 1 am at peace or not.
. Sir charles’s horse and mine, being rather more Spirited, were unwilling to keep the pace of Lord and Lady arne’s. -- -- -- -- -- -1 believe
that Montague put his on his mettle intentionally; my Caro, he knew, would get into as swift a canter. After a few minutes we threw Lord and Lady Arne far behind us; then, stackening our pace, admired the country — the beautiful prospcdls of wood and water, c. with which it abounds.
Sir
V
  17j
Sir Charles ashed me if ever 1 had hee at? Once I told him, with Lady
Pemberton and you before I went abroad and J was fuc'b a child then,, I could not remember anything of the place. He begged to know if I did not leave the Convettt 'of -- -- -- -- - sometime before you did? I answered in the affirmative. He replied, “I knew the Superioiir — she was amazingly clever, and altogether as amiable, I believe. She died before your friend left Paris, Lady Louisa No, Sir, but Soon
• after.” -- '‘indeed!” — then paused, as isfullof thought. — “It is very odd !” — “What h. Sir Charles, very odd “I beg your ladyship’s pardon — nothing material — I just recoiledled a trivial circumstance which happened whilst 1 was at Paris, not worthy of engaging your attention a moment.” You have forbid me, my Julia, to mention to you the name of a certain person; else I would tell you how warmly Sir Charles commended your delicacy — your Spirit in rejecting him. He bestowed more encomiums on your sense, your temper, your form, than you would chuse to hear repeated, He concluded his panegyric, by
I 3 ashing
V
174 mas Q.U ERADES; or,
ashing, If I imagined Lord Seymour would he pojfeffor of so inejiimahle a treajure as Julia Herbert? I Said, I was convinced not; that you had already discarded him; and that you seldom wavered in your resolutions. Thus he replied:
“It is astonishing what objection Lady Julia can make to that young nobleman. He has worth, title, birth, person, and fortune, to recommend him- -- -- Lady
louisa, the world will think your friend is attached to Some fortunate object, whom wt have not yet discovered !” He pretended to Say this jocularly— — if you will believe me, he looked most inquisitively for my answer. You can guess what that was. Sir Charles declared you were very cruel, and hoped I was not determined to follow your example in that point. I Said, I wished to copy so good a one in every respect“
“you really, then. Lady louisa, are resolved to ad like the fair Julia, and give no attention to our Sex on a Subject so essential to our felicity! — You have both vowed never to listen to us !” — “We have no determination concerning your sex. Sir Charles We .are both very young, and
in
4
  175
in no hurry to part with certain, for.very uncertain happiness“
“informed me, my Lady, that. Soon after my arrival in England, I was to addressyou by another name — that Sydney was no more to be remembered.*’
“Reports are not always to be believed, you find. Sir Charles.”
‘‘ That blush — those downcast eyes, loiiisa, are traitors to your inclination — they inform against your wishes, and tell me your heart is attached.”
“You are right — it is attached -- ai- --
*
inched to many amiable persons.”
“Cruel Lady louisa! — Do not triste when my happincss is at stake, let me Seize this” -- -
“obsei ve, Sir Charles, how far behind Lord and Lady Arne are; we must wait for them a few minutes.” I stopped my horse— — how my heart stuttered!
“Lady louisa, you must proceed -- my impatient Soul will no longer brook delay— — heaven’s Sake, oblige me I”
“You are in a very uncommon mood.
Sir Charles -- -- 1 must positively Stay for
Lady Arne — 'I have been Sufficiently rude
14 to
I
176 MASQ, UERAD£S; or,
to her already. — The morning is remarkably fine! What a charming point of view that Spire forms!” — You will say this was a low Species of art, and as common as it is low — Admitted; yet, I could not help it — my Spirits were weak — and I believe I should have behaved ridiculoussv, had I permitted him to enter, upon So important a siibjedt So abruptly. Our amiable pair joined us, and I never quitted Lady Arne during the remainder of our ride. Sir Charles became on the Sudden very grave. We reached — our party
assembled — they were all talkative and loud, except Sir Charles, whose melancholy continued throughout the day, and was noticed
by each person- -- bosom throbbed
with alarms. — How distressing were my re fiedlions! They told me my behaviour to Montague had been childijhlj flippant and had disgusted him. IS So, what would be my fate, but exquisite wretchedness I endeavoured to atone by being attentive to him. — Still, I know, there must have appeared So much constraint in that attention as defeated the purpose for which it was offered, At dinner he avoided sitting next
to
  177
to me — He shunned every occasion that presented of Speaking with me afterwards, — but with his eyes bent on the ground, and his arms folded, was reoardless of eve ry creature, and each circumstance that passed. Tea and coffee over, the chaises were ordered — Lord Arne and Sir Charles returned in my lord’s; Lady Arne and myself in mine — the rest of the company as they came.
“Dear louisa, ’^ Said my friend, as we drove off, “what is the matter with Sir Charles? L threw my arms round her neck, and burst into tears, “I have lost him. Madam — lost him for ever.”
“Good Heaven! Is mtss Stephenson then” -- -- -,
“Ah, no! my ov: n folly has been the occasion.” As Soon as my voice became articulate enough, 1 represented to her what had passed between Montague and myself. She endeavoured to conshle me by affu ^ ranees that Sir Charles could net think un jujily of me; which she Said, he muji dois he took my behaviour in any other light than that Qccajioned by timidity and delicacy.
Lord Arne protested, on our return to
I 5 hb
f
• 4
M ASQ.UERADES; or,
his house, that none of the party should Separate till after Supper. Sir Charles begged to be excused. “Lady Louisii, come hither, ” Said my Lord. — I went. He took my hand : “lam Sure Montague will not, cannot be deaf to your entreaties — beseech him not to leave us, and to assume more Spirits than he has worn all day.” He put my hand into Sir charles’s, then turned off, " and left him to listen to my Solicitations,
“If Ishave any influence. Sir” - “What
a word, my Lady I — If! — Vfho has So much with me? — Let me think you desire me near you but for one instant, and I am
the most blessed of men.” -- You will
stay, Sir Charles ?” “Undoubtedly, Madam.” — “And be in better Spirits ?” “That must absolutely depend upon your Ladyship. — If I am despifed by you, you will not condemn me for Suffering my countenance to correspond with the misery of my heart — I cannot dissemble.” — “Is it possible to imagine I can dejpife one I have ever regarded So much!” — “Say that regard continues.” “It does indeed.” — “I must yet be more unrealbnable, and ask another favour — Permit me to attend you tomorrow evening, and resume the Subject
you
  179
you So unkindly prevented my Speaking on this morning.” “bless me, Sir Cnarles I — What can you have So particu” — -- -- -- --
When you reflect on the consequence to our Sex of knowing your merit, you can easily judge what the subject of my conversation will be— — do not refuse me — Ten thousand thanks, my louisa!” — and in a hurrying manner he vas about to leave me, lest I should put a negative on his request. — “Sir Charles!” — “Dear Lady loui fa, no more! -- Mv Lord, your fair advo cate comes off conqueror in every cause she
undertakes -- -- 1 am at your lordship’s
devotion.”
Mustek is called for — I begged Lady Arne to give me one half hour. -- She as fented; and the more readily, she told me, as she perceived my countenance brightened, and knew that I wished to convey the pleasing intelligence of my being happy to my sweet Julia. I left the drawing-room in a short time after my conference with Sir Charles.
How much obliged to Lord Arne, am I! — but for him, what dreadful moments should 1 pals this night! My Lord is yet
16 a stranger.
io
a stranger, I believe, to the manner in which Sir Charles and I were circumstanced, — un icss Montague told him in their way home I If So, how delicately did he bring about an opportunity for an explanation! — I am interrupted — Lady Arne is in my closet, she complains that I have doubled the portion of time allowed me — they have been dancing this hour. — What room have I for further pleasure To send my thoughts from the transadions of this day, will be to banish them from happiness. — But is not Montague below Yet the unaccountable reserve I feel when I Speak to him (since the latter part of his conversation this morning) in Some measure damps the joy of a heart replete with affection for him. — Why should it be So? — His right; nature inspires it to aid the virgin delicacy. So deservedly the admiration of all persons in every age. — — Dear Lady Arne, I attend you.
its
ivednefday Noon.
Such a change as I found in Sir charles’s Spirits, when I returned to the company last night, is not to be described. He was all gaiety and life. We did not break up till
three
  isi
three o’clock this morning. — Ah! my Julia! that this evening was well over! I dread its approach. How shall I behave | Adieu till tomorrow
■<
* ^ * *
* ♦ * * * **«■****
Morning,
About eight o’clock Sir Charles came, ’ Lord Arne was engaged to a party at Sir William wrottessey’s. In half an hour after Montague entered my Lord took his leave; and Lady Arne begged our excuse for a little while, fayingwas under a cejjity of writing a letter. When she retired,
I thought I should have fainted. 1 am
certain Sir Charles perceived it; for as he drew his chair near mine, he uttered, in a low voice, “Surely, Lady louisa can be under no anxiety at the honour she confers on one So much devoted to her as I am !”, He threw down his eyes, and gave me time to gain more confidence; which I the Sooner did, from his amiable behaviour.
All declarations of Love, I believe, are expressed in much the Same words, and on
LX
%

ly differ in the manner of delivering them. Some do it awkwardly, as if ashamed of the pashon with which they are inspired; whilst other men Seem to glory in it, and Speak without constraint the Sentiments of their hearts, at the same time keeping the strictest delicacy always in view. I need not Say that Sir Charles pursued this latter mode— — tell you more, will be to tyre you with a repetition of what has, been so often spoken to yourself by different people. When he finished what he had to say, I replied:
“I should think myself very unworthy of the Sentiments you profess for me, Sir, were I capable of acting with difgstife. To affect an indifierence I do not fed, for no other motive than to give pain to an amiable heart, is beneath me. Your distindlion resiedts the highest honour on me; and I will confess myfdf flattered at it. — Still I must not accept of the preference you offer, without the approbation of one, whose consanguinity, whose fraternal tenderness, give him a right to interpose in every circumstance 'of my life, and without whose sanction I never will bestow my hand.”
“If
Ik ^
yotr WILL.
“If that is the only obstacle to my wishes, ’* cried he, “I am the happiest of men! — Lord Clermont is no stranger to my attachment to your Ladyship; I acquainted him with it just before I left Italy, and that I hoped I had his consent to address you — He made me vain, by Saying, he knew no man he would Sooner give his liouisa to — — but feared my application was to no purpose; for he thought it probable I should find you in the arms of another, on my arrival in England. — My better destiny interfered and Saved yon — I trust, to bless me! — Forgive, my dear Madam, this late avowal — To have Spoken Sooner was my wish, but I did not think it would have been adhering to the etiquette of delicacy to have done it So immediately on the difmishon of an unfortunate man : besides, a just diffidence of myself made me fearful of being rejected — and suspense for a little while (in my opinion) is better than a dreadful certainty, — This very night, I will have the honour of writing to my Lord, and of making Such proposals as, I believe, he will not disapprove of.”
y There is no reason, Sir Charles, that
you
I
i
y
you should be So precipitate — my brother will Soon be over, and then” -- “Forgive
me, dear louisa, if I dissent from you there — there is great reason— — impatience will not let this night pafs 'over my head without informing. Clermont what
has been the result of it.”
/
“Sir George Sommerville has always acted the parent’s part” --
“My dear Madam! do you suppose that I could have any intention of Soliciting the honour of your hand, without meaning to pay your uncle every compliment due to him? I will lose no time in writing to him, and shall be happy to consult him on what ■ he will think proper to have done for his — and. Suffer me now to Say, mv louisa. I have had strong proofs of Sir george’s friendship. I trust that I may yet .depend upon it, especially in the most important circumstance of my life! — And thus let me, fwfcet louisa, ” dropping on his knee, and kissing my hand, “thank you for the favour you have shown me — My tongue is a bad herald to my heart it cannot tell its feelings”
Lady Arne Soon after came in, and Sir
Charles
*
  1s5
t
Charles in a quarter of an hour excused himself to her for not accepting her invitation to supper, and retired.
Ah, my Julia! how do I deserve the hap piness that awaits me in a union with So amiable a man! — Make me worthy of him, gracious Heaven! or take me from the Supreme felicity of calling him mine! — I can give up life to prevent his being miserable -- but without him life would be now a torment, and could not be long endured by
t
Your ever affectionate
Louisa syoney,
#
t
i
i86 M ASQ.UER ADES; or,
"ito Lathy Louisa sydnev.
Portman Squafe,
I Congratulate you, my much loved friend, on the accomplishment of your wishes. J trust you will, Some years hence, commemorate the transactions of the past week, with the Same satisfaclion that is excited in my bolbm by the description of your happiness— — are you diffident of yourself?? am displeased at it, and think, oh Montague! thy fate has been a propitious one, in gaining the affections of Such a girl as louisa Sydney!! — you prove deserving of them! — I doubt not that you will! In that cafe my fair friend has every felicity to hope for. — I must prepare to attend Lady Pemberton and my sister to a ball given by Lady Danvers. I am desired to put on my befi airs and to Summon all the Graces to my aid that will listen to my invocation. — You will guess that my brother gives me these injunctions, yet he as signs no reason for them. — I fuppose that he meditates a Scheme of having Lord OSMOND

  xby
mond for a brother-in-law, who arrived a few days ago (I am informed), and will in all probability be amongst the numerous throng in Grofvenor square this night. I am impatient to see this nonpareil — Do you never Smile, louisa, at the fears, which So lately molested you, of Sir charles’s meaning to promote a connedhon between you and my Lord Report Says, that the Duke of Westmoreland intends him for Lady Henrietta Marchmont; an amiable young woman I believe, but not at all indebted to the capricious goddess of Beauty for any personal attraction: : deficiency Fortune was determined to make up for, and has distinguished Lady Henrietta as one of' her first favourites, by granting her the confcicnable Sum of one hundred and fifty thousand pounds, with the addition of an estate of fifteen hundred a year, that was purchased wdth slime of the fuptrjluous rupees that Lord Davenport brought with him from the East Indies, and fettled on her when she was ten years old. Son Peer toujours genereux, has been ever since accumulating the principle and interest of it for her, which he declares is to be paid,
with
i
i88
with the capital I before mentioned, to Lord osmond on the day of marriage. The Duke of westmo’‘land is confidently Said to be a pashonate admirer of the dirty pelf So much Sought after by thousands. IS we are to judge, as an Italian author does, who lays, “That children generally inherit the particular virtue or vice of the parent, ’’ we shall conclude that the Lord ojmond makes Pluto the deity to whom he Sacrifices, as well as his father. Avarice is a detestable thing in age -- then what must it be in youth? — The more shocking for being unnatural. — But take notice, Julia, as yet you know not that this young nobleman is tainted with the fault you declaim against!” !” — are right, Louisa— — I have done.
You will be Sorry to hear that the agreeable Colonel Elliot leaves London tomorrow for Portsmouth; from whence he is to embark for America. — We shall meet this night, perhaps for the last time. — Poor Colonel Elliot! — The fubjebt is painful — To lose an amiable friend, like him, must cause melancholy to diffuse itself over the hearts of Such as have sensibility enough
to
  189
to feel So oreat a loss. — What adds to msy
o ^ ^ ^
concern is, that he goes away miserable— — attachment to my sister is no longer concealed.
Adieu, my best louisa,
Julia Herbert.
t' -
%
\
slo Sir Charles Montague.
I Wrote to you, my dear Montague, immediately on my arrival in London; but, had only time to give a positive charge, that you should not leave your louisa a minute Sooner than you proposed doing before you heard of my being in London. Great as my impatience is to See you, 1 now enforce that command. — I know but too well what transports must attend the Sweet Society of the woman we love, to wish to rob you a moment of siich a happiness. -- Besides, it is the height of my ambition to make myself pleasing to Lady louisa, and
certainly
1
4
190
certainly it would be acting inconsistently with that desire, to deprive her of you, even for a day! Therefore do not stir, 1 insist.
My father received me with tenderncss — more indeed than I expected, from the reluctance with which ht. seemed to consent to my returning. -- How is it to be accounted
for, that he should prefer my residing abroad, at a time, when most fathers are anxious -- -- -- But no more — it proceeds
not from aversion i hope, and I will pry no further.
The Duke thinks (and very justly) that he has a right to engross my company entirely for the first fortnight after our meeting. He declares he has many things to say to me. One particular Subject Seems to hover on his lips, but has never yet passed their limits. -- Oh! that it never may!
You will of course know that I have been nowhere in public— — engagement I had to attend my father to Windsor, prevented my obeying Lady danvers’s invitation to a ball the night beforelast -- Our friend Belfielde (who, I told you in my last, accompanied me from Paris) was at it — he is
charmed —
 ; 191
charmed — delighted— — in ecstasy, when he Speaks of the beauties that were assembled there. Observe what he told me of a lady, who, he Said, “is the beauty of the world” — Thus he worded his account:
“Soon after I went into the great dancing room, I was struck with a view of the most lovely young creature I ever beheld :
“She look’d a goddess, and (he mov’d a c^een.”
I gazed with rapture on her, and, turning to Budenall, begged him to inform me of her name. He replied, It is one of the Lady herbert’s, a sister of pemberton’s.” I perceived a genteel cavalier (whom I afterwards found to be Lord Seymour) very attentive to her; andonce, as I drew near, overheard him say, unless you mean, adorable Lady Julia! to make me the happiest of my sex, Speak not to me in this flattering, kind manner and Some time after he again exclaimed, “Ah, Lady Julia I now you are altogether as cruel! — but I will not complain.” Immediately as this was Spoken, Budenall went to her, and presented his hand. She instantly put hers into it, and joined the dancers. I Sought out Pemberton, and upbraided him for not introducing
me
jgz MAS QUE R A D E S; or,
me to his delightful family. He led me to Lady Pemberton, and Lady Almeria Herbert, who were in the cotillon room, the latter just preparing to exhibit her elegant figure in a cotillon. She is a charming, beautiful girl, but not So much in my style of beauty as her sister is. When Lady Julia had finished her dance, her brother presented me to her. 1 told her in French, that I was very solicitous to join in the general admiration that Jo much loveliness inffired: and, turning rather aside to Pemberton, Said in Italian, She is the most divine girl I ever Saw! — Imagination cannot pi(5ture So beautiful a creature!” — Upon my Soul, of rnond, I ineant not that she should have understood me— — observed she blushed ex
%
and that Seymour, Budenall, and Mr. Montague, who were standing by, threw their eyes upon her, as if they felt for the confusion my unguarded Speech must have excited in her fair bosom. Pemberton answered in Italian — You will make my lister vain, my Lord!” — I begged her pardon — She must have Seen that I was devilishly embarrassed myself— — —
Montague! what think you of this
gallant
  193^
gallant Count? He has already forgotten the dames of Italy and France, and will, I believe, throw them au defefpoir^ by endeavouring to carry over Lady Julia Madame la Comptejfe de Belfielde. You will suppose his rapturous manner of Speaking of her is highly diverting. I could wish to have been by, when he was So severely jlrtick with one of the blind urchin’s weapons : I suspedt, that, to evince his love., like foigard’s French Count, “he danced, and he laughed, and he Sang, ” c- -- --
not this trifling manner of writing bespeak a heart at ease? — Have you not already formed an expectation of my having, from change of Scene and objects, in Some measure lost the pangs that tore my breast in pieces? — If you have, you know but little of me! — Never was man So attached — never was man So determined upon any point as I am how to at in this
case. -- -- 1 foresee it will occasion a breach
between my father and me; but I cannot give up my own happiness unreasonably —
No tie can warrant that — His displeasure is all I dread incurring — his fortune I value not. — I am convinced that you think me
vol. I, K firangel^
s
194 MAS Q^U ERADES; or,
Jirangely out of the way, as I have heard people Say of delirious patients; nor can I quarrel with you for it — but, when you behold the objeist of my desire, your astonishment will cease, and my taste be applauded. -- -- But where, Montague, am I
to find her? — Oh, my better stars, direct me • — I must quit this subjest, and abruptly bid you farewell,
t
Osmond.
9
S
I
n
.1*
  195 To Lady Julia Herbert.
0
Southampton.
Your louisa’s heart, my Julia, is replete with every sentiment of gratitude for the interest you always take in her happiness— — study to deserve your affection, will be the best means to ensure it.
lam desirous to hear your description of Lord osmond — my once much dreaded lover! — I do indeed laugh at the anxieties which invaded me on his account. Sir Charles is never more delighted than when expatiating on the merit of osmond— — a word escapes him relative to the connexion you speak of; — perhaps it is mere report. montague’s intention was, to have flown to his friend immediately on his arrival; but he had pojitive orders from him not to leave Southampton. I know not why, but my curiosity was exceedingly excited to see the letter Sir Charles received from him yester day. He read the first paragraph of it to
hein which I was Spoken of, and not a
K 2, fyllablq
196  ,
Syllable more. I would not for the uni verse have appeared anxiousto know further of the contents, — therefore could not alk any questions; but 1 dare say Lord of mond had the honour of your hand for part of the night at Lady danvers’s. I depend on your writing me, whether he is the superlative handsome creature that every one says he is. -- -- Dear Julia, I wish
^... —., 1 will not tell you what— — you should turn up your rosy lip at it.
Sir Charles is determined to go up to •town the day after tomorrow;; impatience to See his osmond will brook no longer delay. How can I part with him! — *1 here is no describing to you the agreeable manner in which we pass our time : amusements that were hateful to me a fortnight ago, are now delightfully pleasing. — This is easily accounted for. Year preparing to ride. Adieu, my ever dearest Julia!
Your faithful
I
Louisa syonsy.
to
f
4
0
  197 T? Lady Louisa syoney.
Portman Square
WE had a Superb ball at Lady danvers’s — the company very numerous, yet well chosen — I believe every handsome woman of distincstion in London was at it— — never Saw a greater display of beautiful faces in my life. The whole Suite of rooms were appropriated for different dances, and for refreshments: they were illuminated, and adorned most sump tuoussy.' — The Supper and attendants were ill character with the rest, all equally magnificent.
I danced a great deal, and with a variety of partners. Almeria, who (without partiality) excels in this accomplishment, is very fond of it; she therefore was not the first that gave over dancing.
I was introduced to one of the mo^gau lant Frenchmen (I believe he is a Son of Gallia) that ever I met with. Lady Mary Athill would be charmed, louisa, with the Count de Belsielde, his compliments are So
K 3 very
198 MASCLUERADES;
very correspondent to her taste. I now guess the reason of my brother’s sohicitude about our dress : he wished us to appear well in the eyes of this foreigner, to whom he pays great attention. His figure and manner are elegant enough. I cannot Say I admire him much; he is too forward and afftired, I think — however, I ought not to Say this, having Seen So little of him. — Sir Charles Montague knows him certainly, for I heard the Count make honourable mention of him to Lord Pemberton.
Some time after I entered the great room. Lord Seymour came up to me, and told me. If he might prefame to judge by my countenance I pojfeffed better Jpirits then than I had a few Jtights before I answered, they were in general very even, but that it was not impojfible they might be raised at that moment; as nothing would sooner produce facb an effect than the sight of his Lordship;; pleasure I had been deprived of for several days. Poor Lord Seymour was pinned to my steeve, Louisa, for the rest of the night. But who do you think he discovered to be the lord of my affections?? — Montague. I asked what gave rise to such an idea?
He
  19^
t
He begged my pardon for his free method of speaking the other nighty and owned envy had urged him to believe that I could not lijten to Mr. montagues melting conversation or attend to the language of his eyesy which evidently tell the ohjefi of their wifhesy with • feeling an emotion for him that would make him the happieji of men; and added,
“his intrinsic worth, and the attractions of his person, must make him a formidable rival.” You may imagine that I dissipated his fears of Mr. montague’s ever being connected with me; ' and at the Same time affired Lord Seymour, that I meant not to give HIM the flight efi encouragement to speak an a fuhjeft very disagreeable to me. — I also entreated he would not be tmkind enough to hinder me from conversing with him as a friend; a circumfiance that muji unavoidably happen, if he resumed the old topic. He replied, / was very cruei but he would not complain
I really regard this amiable young man Sincerely, — but cannot bring myself to do it in the way he wishes.
I looked incessantly for that “earth treading fiarv Lord osrnond, and expected in every tolerable new face that approached
K 4 the
4oo
the room where I was, to behold him— —! after every rap, hoping to have heard him announced. -- At last my patience
was quite exhausted; and I alked Lord Budenall if he was there? He Said no. I wondered at it. The reply was, “I fuppose Lord osmond does not chuse to go much into public till he has been at Court, where he has not yet made his appearance. I really do not know the exa<5t reason of his absence from such an assembly, but it is natural to form that conjectured— — curiosity was Sadly disappointed!
Lord and Lady Mortimer arrived in town three days ago. — She was at Lady danvers’s; but is become So Jiw, as to dis like dancing herself, of course was only a looker on I told her it was egregious affectation. — Apropos Lady Henrietta march mont was in grosvenor square; but I Saw no Solicitude in her countenance for the entrance of her Marquis. She no doubt was apprised that he would not be there, and of the cause that hindered him. I was exceedingly provoked at my ungraacus cousin Sir James Westbrook. He danced with
Lord
»
  aoi
Lord osmond’s mistress Some time, and I Sound him afterwards making the greatest ridicule of poor Lady Henrietta, to my brother. Lord Seymour, and Mr. Montague; who, I am Sorry to Say, encouraged him, by laughing heartily at what he thought wit. I reproached Sir James for it; this was his clever reply:
“Now, Lady Julia, you are only angry because you cannot find out what the jest is; but I will be hanged if I inform you. Perhaps a kiss may extort it from Seymour; suppose you try! though, should he tell it you, Pemberton must cut his throat: So you had better not urge the poor fellow to tempt his fare. 1 am Sure my fair partner is obliged to you, for being So much interested in what she says and does \ I thank you for her, and will acquaint her with your kindness.” — You may imagine t was angry with Westbrook; 1 told him So, and that I would not Speak to him again this month. — What an unfortunate Sex is ours! Lady Henrietta, 1 dare say. Said Something very innocently, which her ungenerous partner put a wrong constrursiion upon, and will make it a standing mark of
K 5 ridicule
/•
202 MAS E R A D E S; or,
ridicule agair.st her for ever. Good Heaven! how should every word be weighed before we Suffer it to drop from our lips! else we must be in the power of a Sec of creatures that are devoid of compassion, and endeavour to think as ill of us, as if they were to reap advantage from our depravity!
Pray, dear Louisa, are you So Selfish as not to allow Sir Charles to come up to his osmond for even a few hours or has his adoration of you eradicated those impres sions of friendship that he professed to be So indelibly marked on his heart .^ — 1 did hope that we should have been gratified with a sight of the Baronet on the arrival of my Lord, thinking it impossible that this modern Pylades and Orejtes could be long in the Same land without meeting. But 1 See every other pashon yields to the more powerful one of love.
I flatter myself that this day’s post will bring me a packet from Southampton. In that hope 1 bid you adieu!
Julia Herbert
I

Ta Lady Julia Herbert.
\
I
Southampton.
SIR Charles has taken leave of me — He promises to return in a week; but what an age will that time appear to your Louisa!! — feel So auk ward, — the town
looks deserted! -- -1 endeavoured a few
minutes ago to laugh with Lady Arne, as if my heart was gay, and a tear trickled from each eye — What folly! — I was ashamed' of it, and have retired to my room till I can behave with less emotion. — Only gone for one week, and all this uneasihess — again I repeat. What folly!
1 received, afew days ago, a letter from Sir George Sommerville, filled with encomiums on this amiable man. — He tells me, that, to bestow my hand on Sir Charles, will give peace to his heart in his last moments, and let him descend into the grave without a pang for my happiness after his dissolution.
What felicity is mine, to afford So much
K 6 pleasurg
%
jt04 MAS CLU ERADES; or
pleasure to those I love, by following the immediate impulse of my own inclination!
Sir Charles told me he intended to make Petersfield his road to London, and to pass an hour at sommerville house, there to settle every preliminary to our union according to Sir george’s approbation. 1 fear, Julia, he thinks of making great Settlements; I have written to my uncle to in treat that he will not Suffer it — Never was pashon more disinterested than mine is. I am Sure I may with just propriety Say,
“1 love him for himself alone.”
My stay at Southampton will not be much longer. I have informed Lady sommer ville that my health is established — and that I wish to have an opportunity of kissing her hand -- -- -- -
Your letter is just brought me — I am rejoiced to hear you had So pleasant an evening in Grofvenor square, but lament your disappointment in not Seeing Lord OSMOND.

Why did you not mention Col. Elliot? Is he gone My heart is Sensible of the agonies another’s must endure who loves
hopes..

f
  2®5
hopelessly. -- Ah, Julia! may we neither
of us ever experience Such misery! — You See how mistaken you were in Supposing me Selfish, or that Sir Charles had forgotten his friend. — Thus it ever is to
0
form conjectures in a hurry!
1 am going with Lady Arne to pay Some morning visits, after which I must attend my toilet with much attention, as we dine four miles off, where we are to meet most of the principal inhabitants of this neighbourhood — but what pleasure can I have in adorning my person, when the only object, in whose eyes I am solicitous to appear well, every hour is carrying further and further from me! — Yet ought I not to justify his choice as much as possible in the opinion of others? Certainly! — Farewell till tomorrow
* * ^ * « ♦ «
Morning.
How temporary, my Julia, is every human felicity! — — Where are now the gay prof pccts that gilded yesterday? — Fled! — and in their stead a rueful train of horrors fill
your louifa’s imagination.
I was
%
2o6 mas CLU ERADES; orj
I was this morning at the drawing-room window, when I observcd a chaise and four driving furiousty into town. As it drew nearer I discovered Sir charles’s liveries, and Soon recollected the face of one of his footmen, who preceded the carriage. — I. knew not what to conclude from So Sudden a return, and could hardly credit my sight, till I Saw Sir Charles himself alight from ' the chaise. — What words can paint my grief, at being informed that my dear uncle’s illness occasioned montague’s coming back to Southampton! He arrived at sommerville house as they were about to dispatch an express to me, and, apprehending the' shock it must give my Spirits to be So abruptly alarmed, begged (painful as the office would be) to be the bearer of the melancholy tidings. He broke it to me in the gentlest manner.
How does affliction meliorate the heart! — Dear as Sir Charles is always to me, me thinks he is twenty times more So in the character he now represents of the tender, consoling friend. — I look up to him for comfort like one bereft. — — Ah, my dear uncle! if I lose you — Dreadful thought I cannot bear it,
I write
/
 ; 20/
I write while the carriage is preparing. — Lady Arne and her amiable husband are already waiting to undertake the journey with us to sommerville house. — My next letter will be from thence. Should one arrive this post from Portman square, Clairon will bring it with her tomorrow— — coach is at the door — I am at all times, and in all Situations, my beloved julia,
Your faithful
Louisa Sydney
f
\
/
ft'
t
i
\
s
r
io MAS(: lueradesi or,
V the Same,
Sommerville house,
ONCE more do I resume my correspondence from this place. We arrived here about six o’clock, and though we travelled as fast^as the horses could put their feet to the ground, yet my anxious fears made the journey insupportably tedious. A thousand Severe reproaches did I throw on myself, for having Suffered any consideration to detain me So long from my uncle in his present infirm state; and really thought the painful alarm which called me So Suddenly a just punishment for my unkindness,
1 was met at the great hall door by Lady Sommerville: she embraced me with cordiality, while her Speech was intercepted by tears! — Again did my observation occur, that distress bends the mind, and Softens our Sentiments. — Her Ladyship never before gave me .So great an instance of tenderness. I inquired eagerly for Sir George, and was informed he was still very ill. I
stew
/
  209
stew immediately to his room, where I beheld a Spectacle that shocked me to the
Soul. -- Ah, Julia! what ravages have
been made on Sir George within these few months! I approached the Sofa on which he was reclined, and, throwing myself on
my knees, burst into tears. on hearing
my Sobs (I could not suppress them) he turned, and, reaching out his arms to me,. exclaimed,
“And is my louisa come in time to close my eyes, and take my last blessing, ere my lips are stopped with dust!”
“Oh, what an expression, my uncle!
— Speak not to me thus — I cannot bear it!”
“Not bear to hear me Speak of death, Louisa— — would then divest me of
comfort__was it not on your account, my
poor girl, I should wish to encoui.ter it. this instartt. — But oh I — how must I leave you unproteded 1 — Wteuld to Heaven I had not granted your brother’s request of re maining a year longer in Italy! — Ln express shall be Sent off to him tomorrow, if 1 am in as much danger as I am at present. — — • Are you quite recovered, Louisa?” ?” Said
I wasf
^10 M ASQ, UERADES; or,
I was. He bowed his head as if to express the pleallire it gave him — complained of being exhausted from having Spoken So much, and waved his hand for me to retire; which his attendants obliged me re ludtantly to do, as they Said the sight of me afieded Sir George. As I descended
the stairs I met Dr. j and Sir Charles
going up to my uncle, accompanied by Lady Sommerviile. 1 went into the music parlour, which you know is next the staircase: : I thought without inter ■ I might have indulged my grief. I was absorbed in it, when I found my hand clalped in another’s. I looked up, and Saw Sir Charles kneeling before me. “Wshence is it that my Louisa” ” he, “suffers herself to become a prey to unhappiness, at the time that Dr. J — — begins to have hopes of her uncle’s getting the better of this last attack f* For heaven’s sake reassume your spirits, and prepare to see Sir George, who alks for you! (fompose your fels, dear louisa, and let me attend you to him.”
Flis voice — his expreshons — soothed my
soul;
J •?
• » r
  sii
Soul; I gave him niy hand, — and we both reentered my uncle’s room.
“Sir George, ” cried Montague, “I have been chiding our louisa: she makes herself miserable about you, when we have all So much reason to rejoice at your being greatly recovered.” He led me to a chair near Sir George, and retired.
O'
“And may 1 hope my dear uncle will yet live to biess his louisa? — or does Sir
Charles flatter me ?” -- -
The change I find in myself within this hour is very great. — I ascribe it chiefly to the pleasure of feeing you, louisa — Be that as it may, the paroxysm of my present disorder is passed --! have new Spirits, and life itself feels renovated; therefore be comforted.”
“Merciful Heaven, receive my thanks !’* exclaimed I; and I embraced him.
“I want to have Some conversation with you, louisa, about Sir Charles Montague; but it cannot be now. He has honour, worth, alliance — everything that can make a woman of sense and delicacy happy. All that I desire life for, is to lee you married to him; and, as your brother is not in
England,
S
*
ai M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
England, it would be an unlucky cffcufn ^ stance to lose me before the indissstuble knot is tied. — But no more of the Subject at
this time.” — Dr. J -- -- -- entered, and gave
me very comfortable assurances of my uncle’s doing well for a good while. On his
o o
quitting the room. Sir George related to me Several little matters that had passed in the family way during my absence, and Seemed'more cheerful than I could have expected from the weak state he was in. About nine o’clock I took leave of Sir George for the night, and returned to company with better Spirits than 1 went up possessed of.
My amiable Sir Charles Sought an opportunity of entreating, that, Should the worji happen to my uncle that 1 could dread, in his absence, I would exert a proper fortitude on the occasion, and support myself for the sake of the man who hoped to call me his, and whose whole felicity depended on me. He lamented his being obliged to part from me at Such a time! — and added, he was so. presumptuous as to be very impatient to introduce Lord Ofmond to the Lady whom he ex --
pedfed very flmtly to be connected with by the
dearefi
  213
dearest of all ties; therefore begged I would permit him to seize some early day for bringing his friend to Sommerville house. I told Sir Charles, he was an encroacher; that in my opinion he had no reason to believe himself on jo Jure a foot, till I had heard from Lord Clermont; and that I thought him to blame in touching on such a fubjefl at a moment when my whole attention mujl be wholly engraved by one melancholy circumjiance.
“You hurt me much. Lady louisa !” replied he— — on a Jure foot! -- -- Sir George sommerville’s approbation is obtained — your brother’s I had before I parted from him. — Good God! — how cruel you are! — But I will not be answered in this way — Before I leave this place, those lips must pronounce me Secure of this hand', — it shall be mine — you shall not quit me, upon my Soul, till you promise that it shall — Speak my louisa, will you not consent to bless me with it? “To be thus compelled.
Sir Charles” -- -- -- -« No, Madam! — -
Great as I hold the value of it, I would not owe it to compulson — Make it a voluntary gift — and I am unexceptionably the
happiest of men.” “Well, Sir, ” cried I,
« it
T
i
214 masq_uerad.esj or.
“it is yours, and with it a heart that shall be all Solicitude to make it deserving of you.” — I think it is ridiculous to describe a lover’s rapture on Such occasions. A like ness, no doubt, runs through all; and, if they do not really feel what they would have us believe they do, they have brought art to resembie nature So strongly, that there is no perceiving the difference. He told me, that in a few days I muji exfedi to see him here again., and, in the meanwhile hoped I would not refuse him the fatisfafiion of my correspondence. “I cannot longer, ” Said he, ‘‘de^ lay going up to osmond.* he is not So agreeably situated in Some points as I could wish; and must be anxious for at least the consolation of a friend — elfe, how could I prevail on myself to leave my Louisa!” !”
Charles bid us adieu when we rer

tired. He means to Set off very early tomorrow morning. Heaven grant my uncle a good night’s repose! — Before I conclude, I most mention our worthy friends, Lord and Lady Arne — Their kindness to me has been as unwearied as it was great. They will not be prevailed on to stay longer than Wednesday. From hence they go
wp
  21$
up to London for a few weeks — You will See them, my Julia, and repeat to them the grateful sense I have of their goodness. No words can tell you properly how much I regard them.
I have Scribbled this half hour: it is past one o’clock, and yet no heaviness approaches my eyes. -- -- Malgre I will bid
you farewell, and implore the benevolence of the steepy god.
Yours ever,
Louisa Sydneyi
r
so
. a.
i M A S Q, U E R A D E S; or.
To Lady Louisa sydney
/
man square.
WHAT I Suffered for you, my louisa,
on receiving your last letter from Southampton, is easier conceived than de i'cribed : -- one of your quick Sensibility is a Sadobjedt to meet with Such dreadful alarms! — I am to thank you for So Soon dispelling my fears on your uncle’s account. Few women, distressed on one side by the dan ^ illness of a beloved parent, (Such have you ever found Sir George,) and engrossed on the other by a lover that is more than charming, would have bestowed half an hour to relieve the anxious mind of even a friend: but you are an exception to most of the Sex - therefore I am not Surprised; and with that Sentence I conclude my encomiums.
Though Sir Charles has been in town six days, I have not yet beheld him. How unlucky! He called here yesterday morning, and Lord osmond with him. My mother and Almeria Saw them, I had gone with
Lady
 , 217
Lady Percival and my brother to ride out, ' and was doubly mortisied when I heard what a pleasure I had lost. Lady Pemberton and my sister join the multitude in admiring my Lord; they Say, he is captivating — hut they will not raije my expefla tions too high! — I must tell you a circumstance that Surprised them — yet remember you are not to repeat it to Sir Charles. My mother was alone in the little drawing-room when they were announced. Soon after, Almeria came in, and on her entrance Lord osmond turned very pale : when she Spoke, he Seemed in the greatest confusion, and forgot himself So far as to exclaim, “My God! Montague, can it be !” — — Sir Charles upon this approached him, and inquired if he was ill? — Lady Pemberton and my Sister were alarmed — but he Soon recovered himself, made many apologies for the conjternation he caused. and, ascribed it to a vertigo in his head, to which he had been fubjefly Jince he was so violently tojfed for many hours in the vejfel that brought him from Calais, He ridiculed it amazingly, and diverted them and himself at his
own expense in the most agreeable man
vob, I. L neri
li MASQUER ADES; or,
ner; in Spite of which my mother declares his indifposition Seemed more the effeist of; astonishment than a constitutional failins:.. She ashed Almeria if jhe had ever seen my Lord bef ore? Not to her knowledge she replied. (louisa, I hope there is no Spice of madness in my lord’s disposition!) After visit of little less than an hour they made their baifemains. Sir Charles returns to Sommerville house tomorrow— — w'sh I could see him before he goes! — but he is So taken up witji this osmond! — Would to Heaven he were again in Italy! It is well Sir Charles is not my lover; or it would mortify me to think how much he will be monopolised by him. ^
Next Monday we are to go to a masque fade at carlioe house. I shall not tell you what our dresses will be. Fray prevail on Sir Charles to come up to London time enough to go with us,. If he is in our train, nonci of the party will have any occasion, you know., to dread the ariifiees of a Sir Hargrave pcuerfen; therefore, in pity to us dtfeneelefs jamiels^ let us have a Sir Charles of the group.
May my next letter from Sommerville
‘ liouse
 '
%
house give me the pleasing intelligence of Sir George that I desire! and may every good angel have my louisa in their keep ing.i prays her
Julia Herbert"
I
/
w
Sto Lady Julia Herbert, '
sommerviue house.,
Rejoice with me, my amiable Julia that Sir George is much better! Dr. J" • has left us, and repeated again to
me, just before his departure, that my uncle is yet at Some distance from Setting out ■on that dreadful journey which we ail Soon or late must undertake.
This morning Sir George told me, he was ready to enter upon the conversation he hinted at to me the first night of my arrival; and, previous to it, put into my
hands Sir Charles montague’s letter to him
L 2 from
• / i,
, M AS(LUERADES; or,
from Southampton. I need not describe to you the flattering manner in which he Speaks of your louisa. — Lady Sommerville came in; but Seeing us engaged, offered to withdraw. I took her hand, and begged Jhe would allow me to think her interejied in what concerned me bejought her to attend to the fubjefi of our difeourfe. Sir George nodded to her to stay; and she, with much fatissaiftion in her countenance. Seated herself. Thus he began :
“It would be very needless for me, louisa, to expatiate on the advantages that must attend your connexion with Montague : — you know the high opinion 1 have of him, and how much I love him; therefore, must conclude that the day which will give you to him, 1 shall mark as one of the happiest of my life! -- But I must demand
one question -- How are you circumstanced in regard of Mr. Melmoth? an fwer with your usual sincerity.”
I told him, that no engagement fubjified between Air, ■ Melmoth and me : — that for a time my girlifjo vamty was flattered by the diftinflion he Showed me and I imagined myself hound in gratitude to think favourably ofl
himy
  22ff
him., which I construed into love; but when the addition of eighteen months passed over my head and gave greater force to my reason I was shocked at the choice I had made, and was wretched till I had revoked every encouragement 1 had given that gentleman. I assured my uncle, that he was made acquainted wuh my resolution of never becoming his, and had yielded to my entreaties of troubling me no more with his addresses. He replied, “In that point only have you ever erred, * — the affair was kept a Secret from me” - — “And from me too, ” cried Lady Sommerville, or I should have advised— — “rightly judged, ” Said Sir George, interrupting her, “ic never would have met with my approbation: — but still my fenses could not be confined, tho’ your sentiments were — I heard and saw enough to wound my peace; — yet, finding you determined to place no confidence in me, I resolved not to extort it from you. I knew full well the danger that would attend throwing a constraint on a young lady’s jnclinatiohs — We are all perverse, more or less— — was a romantic age, and, if I had made use of any authority on the occasion, I should have been thought tyran
L 2 nica^
2 22 M A S (UE R A D E S; o rv
nical; which would have been the inevi’i' table means of heightening Mr. Melmotfi in your opinion, and So of converting what was perhaps only a temporary liking into a lasting passion— — did I argue with myself; and, though I Saw you in danger,, concluded it best to leave you to the workings of your reason,. which I trusted would discover your error Sooner, and plainer, than any other method I could strike on. — Thank Heaven, it has answered! and I will never again mention a Subject So disagreeable to us both, but to add, that, had I been disappointed in my expedations of you, and you had absolutely fixed your affections on So unworthy an object, I should then have acted my part, and, hindered you from throwing yourself away. My mortal displeasure would have' attended your marrying him — this should have been told you : and I am Sure my louisa could never have born that calamity; therefore, would not have brought it upon herself.
Upon the death of my first wife, having lost my poor boy nd girl, I determined to Substitute you and your brother, my children, in their stead. I Settled the greatest
part.
4
 ; 2^^
^ \ • part of my estate in Hampshire om Clermont,
and put it out of my own power to take it from him, I also made my will, and left you twenty thotisand pounds, meaning; on the day of your marriage to give your husband twenty thousand, exclusive of my legacy.' If I lived not to See that desirable” event, you were to have'been, at the age of twenty-one, mistress of forty thousand' pounds.. After thus providing for bothy I thought myself entitled to marry; - therefore,. offered my hand to miss Meadows, which she did me the honour of receiving. had heaven blessed us with an offspring, my fortune would have been enough, after the dedudtions made out of it (that I have mentioned), to Satisfy their ambition. It has not; and your brother will be master of what I poffess, which,, added to his own estate, will bring him in fourteen thousand a year, besides the twelve hundred per annum vrhich he will pay Lady sommer ville during her life. 1 have done nothing, further for you, louisa, than I did on the eve of my marriage. I leave it to Cler
ntont«..
*.
jt24 MASCLUER ADES; or,
mont, to make any addition he will think proper to your forty thousand pounds.
And now, my amiable girl, that we have finished with money matters, we will return to a Subject more interesting. Let me advise you to weigh well the Step you are going to take. Partial as I am to Montague, I wish you not to marry him, unless you do it with every impulse of affection: : / hold him the worthiest of his Sex, you may not view him in the Same prejudiced light; — if So, adl an honourable part, and Say So at once.”
I knevv not at first how to answer my uncle; the contending pashons of gratitude, apprehension (lest he thought me still attached to Mr. Melmoth), and love, were at war in my breast, and almost convulsed me. Sir George rung for a glass of water — before it came, I was relieved by a shower of tears; which when Lady some meryille perceived, she exclaimed to her husband“ “agony of grief bodes Sir Charles no good! Lady louisa miist certainly be attached to Some one else! — it is best to own it at once — k will put an end to
the
  225
the affair, and there will be no harm done. I confess it appears not altogether feasible, that another should So Soon Supply Mr. melmoth’s place in her affections! Urge montagues Suit no further. Sir George” - — My uncle gave her one of his stern looks, which never fails to silence her; and which, to Say a truth, she very often requires. I turned to Lady Sommerville — “Why will you be So cruel, Madam? — What have I ever done, to merit a suspicion of my using duplicity in a case wherein my whole
happiness is concerned? -- -1 love no
one elfe, -- Sir Charles Montague is
dearer to my heart than all the world! — yes, my uncle, dearer than you are, — dearer than Julia Herbert is! — Can I say more to evince my attachment to him, since I love not myself So well as I love you both? • — these tears flow from gratitude; \ i glory in them; they show you the feelings of my heart, which no words can da justice to.” — Lady Sommerville reddened her lip, by. biting it unmercifully; — and looked as if she would Say, were my uncle not by, “Fine heroics !'* He was affected. I told him, I had absolutely accepted of Sir
Charleses
#
526 M A S (LU E R A D E S I o Ry
Charlefs proposals, to whom I made no fecref of my affefiion. When I related the manner in which I Spoke to him the night be' ' he left this place. Lady Sommervilte opened her eyes, and assumed a counte -- nance of perfe(5l: astonishment.. Dear Julia how she vexed me during the whole conversation! Sir George applauded me, anfit told me, that., fine the sentiments I et^prejfed. for Montague., were the real difiates of my heart., his joy fell very little short of what sif Charleses mujt bey. at the profpeff of our union»■ He Seemed fatigued, and 1 retired to my' dressing-room, where I have remained writhing ever since..
^ ^
Sfhurfdayy tfclock,.
L it possible, my Julia,, that you can have patience with my continuing So long; the inexhaustible Subject of my passion for Sir Charles? I was just ready to inform you how happy I was made yesterday by letter from him, when that refleiftion occurred : -- but indeed, dear girl, if I must not
write of him, Icannot write at all;. Bear
'with;
\
W If A T Y o 0 W I L H mf'
with my weakness - be assured, that,, when you have bestowed your heart upon Ibme worthy object (and a Superlatively happy one he will be), I shall encourage you to pour forth your admiration of him — to tell me tvrenty times in a minute, that you love him beyond ettprejfion. Never can I forget the transport my heart feels nowy
at being allowed the lame privileges. -- -- -- -
bless me !- — whom have we here? An elegant phaeton and four, with three attendants, are stying up the avenue; their appearance bespeaks Something great. The carriage approaches — it wheels round the ring— — single O is cyphered under a coronet. -- -- -- If my*eyes do not deceive me,.
or my palpitating heart flatter, Sir Charles
Montague is one of the gentlemen, -- -- -- -- -- -
It is he, my Julia! and with him Lord’
osmond: ^ -- -- Now for a sight of this Adonis I:
— -- -- -- 1 am Summoned —
Thursday Night, Twelve o*'clock,
Well, my fair friend! I have Seem this irresistible man. “And what Sort of a creature is he? — does he answer your ex pedlation ?• — I dare believe nov — thought
perhap$j.
e
%
♦
ils  ,
perhaps he exceeds it!” -1 Sancy, Julia,
there is as great a share of curiosity in your composition, as you suspedted there was of parsimony in my lord’s. — I am a fraid of frightening you with this similitude of Vulcan. He was, I think, the ugliest and most deformed of the Heathen mythology; and yet he fell to the lot of a Venus. — The Lo.m preserve yqu from osmond! — — I See Surprise painted in your face. — suppose I now represent an object exactly opposite to the hideous God! — the contrast will but do him justice. — Yet what a task am I about to undertake! A pen like mine must fail extremely in an attempt to draw So enchanting a form as my Lord osmond’s. To please you, I will try for it.
First, let me tell you, he is tall, .and the most elegant figure I ever beheld. I had no idea of a hand Some leg and foot, I find, till I Saw osmond’s. ' His eyes are very large, black, and penetrating; yet they Speak the Softest language in the world — So expressive! — Ah Julia! what cannot they express to a beloved object! You are not easily caught by beauty, but with a heart disengaged, if you withstand the eyes of
osmond
r
  229
csmond, you are “more or less than wo mans— — nose is rather inclining to an acquiline, just enough to give him a very Sensible look. His mouth — mercy on me!
how shall I describe it! Indeed, Julia, I
cannot possibly do it: I will only Say that it Surpasses his other features, which, but for the comparison, would appear perfecst. The redness of his lips Sets off the beautiful whiteness of his teeth. The lily and rose are blended in his complexion, without giving him any effeminate look; — on the contrary, he has a fine manly appearance. His hair is dark, and extremely thick. His add refs is the most finished you can imagine. He does not stir, but a thousand graces play about him. You will be astonished when I Say, that Sir Charles Montague appeared nothing — nay, almost auk ward, when near Lord osmond; So totally was he eclipsed by his friend’s Superior
brightness.
from the portrait I have drawn, and the truth I have jujl allowed to fall from my pen, do you not fear my stability in montague’s favour? You need not, dear Julia t It is true, I viewed Lord osmond with admiration
M A S Q U E R A D E S •; o
miration;; then it was only an admiration that I should feel at Seeing a well executed piece of painting. My heart at the very moment was wholly montague’s, and to have been forced to change Sir ‘charles even for osmond, would have been considered by me as the bitterest stroke that fortune could inflict.
You have often told me, that I am a true physiognomist; if So, I read in Lord ofmond’s countenance a Settled melancholy — yet let me not arrogate too much merit to myself from this penetration : perhaps I never should have made the observation, if Sir Charles had not told me that his Jituation is not a happy one. Good Heaven! what can render it otherwise? His very looks must command his wishes:
I dare answer his heart never formed one, f hat was not dictated by virtue and reason., None but the Soul of a tiger or, tygress could have inssidted misfortunes on him. On my entering the room. Sir Charles presented him to me as the dear Ofmond of whom I had so often heard him speak. He then turned to him, and Spoke in a complimen carry manner of me My Lord bowed to
your
s
N •
  ijt
\
your louisa, and Said Some very gallant things. I made the best return 1 could. My astonishment at Seeing So Superlatively handsome a creature almost deprived me of utterance. We talked much bf Paris, and of Italy. His conversation is Sensible, and naturally inclined to be very lively I am Sure, was not his vivacity damped by the distress his heart wrings at.’^ My harpsichord lay open. Sir Charles ashed, if I had been pradising? 1 Said no, osmond, ” cried he, “is an admirer of,
,, as well as a very great proficient in, music; will your Ladyship oblige him with your favourite air out cf Armida My Lord Seconded his request strenuoussy; and I went to the harpsichord. He Seemed to feel the tender Sentiments I Sung, for he sighed once or twice. I fancy, Julia, Lady Henrietta Marchmont is not the principal, object of his affections. I think it more probable, that he should be attached to some Italian Lady. He once touched the keys after 1 had discontinued from playing; — just founded a dozen notes, and desisted. I begged him to go on. He entreated my excuse, and I forbore to urge
him,
%
132 MAS CLUE R A D E S j c
him, lest it should be disagreeable. Had I repeated the request a Second'time, his politeness would not have allowed him to refuse me.
Very Soon after, my Lord took his leave; he pleaded, as an apology to Sir George, for his not staying to dinner, an engagement he was under to be at Sir Harry Bel,, this night; and, added, that he. had been so happy, (looking at his watch,) that he had Jtolen more time than he had a! -- lotted, in paying his devoirs at Sommerville^
House. He goes up to London the day after tomorrow. Sir Charles remains with us a fortnight — every moment shows him to more advantage in the eyes of
S
Your
«
K
Louisa sydney
\

t END of VOL. I.
4
%


MASQUERADES, OR
WHAT YOU WILL
B Y T H E
I
AUTHOR OF ELIZA WARWICK, 8cci
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
\
VOL. II
i
I
LONDON!
Printed for J. B E W, in pater noher rovr.
WJ>CQLXXX»
»•
%
s

Sir Charles Montague.
Si. yames’s Square.
IOW can I compose my Spirits enough
to tell you that I again live! --
Oh,. Montague! Sympathise in my joy.
The last happy six hours shall be for ever
held auspicious. thou trembling pen!
be less agitated, and inform my Charles -- this.long lost, heavenly fair one is — found— — transported heart will let me Say no more!
• k
t
* % ^ ^ ^
— I
vol. II B Tuef
0
f
%
\
a masi^uerades} or,
I
V _
Tuesday Mornings, i o dcloch.
1 have been in bed two hours, but not a wink of steep approached my eyes. — Such excess of joy is hardly to be Supported.
“Bliss goes but to a certain bound j Beyond, ’ds agony.” ' — —
I will try to calm my Spirits by a recital of what has happened since yesterday morning,
I delivered your message to Frederick Montague, and we both went on your various commishons, which employed us till it was time to dress. At the half hour after four we met at bingley’s; where we found Rainsford, Seymour, and'meadows. Champagne and Burgundy So freely circulated, that each man was inspired with a gaiety of heart that made him Ijpeak his Sentiments. When libations are offered to Bacchus, the Cyprian (i^ieen is generally present at the Sacrifice, We made love our topiclv, and named many objects that might rival the daughter of Jove in beauty. Seymour spoke like an enthusiast, and plainly demonstrated, he best could paint the passion,
who was under its immediate influence,
«
W H A T Y O U WILL. 3
ence. No words could do justice to my feelings on Such a Subject; therefore I Said but little. My silence was construed into an indifference for the Sex — I vindicated myself, and ajfured them that I did not deserve so cruel an afperjton.
“No, by Heaven !” cried Rainsford • “but to you., all women have been Such easy conquests, that you foresee no trouble in Securing the most charming.” I answered, he was mijiakenf -- 'skiih. a fixed Smile, which bordered on a Sneer, he continued his Satire;
“Amorous and yielding as you found the girls on the continent, you may disco vera little difficulty, osmond, in prevailing on those that are here to listen to you : they are nor of Such combustible textures in England as in a warmer climate.”
‘‘ There, ” replied I, “you certainly are in an error. It is true I have not resided in this country for Some years, yet I well knov/ the women of it have given no strong proofs in general of an impenetrable virtue, notwithstanding your high opinion of them, — which indeed may be founded on
ill success.”
B 2 H
•• -
%

4 MAS Q^U eradesj or,
He grew warm, and I, perceiving him heated with wine, let drop the argument. Meadows ashed, id. / had seen Pemberton's Jjjiers? and immediately launched into rapturous eulogiums on their beauty : nor was Lady Louila Sydney forgotten; each man envied you. »^about ten o’clock we parted, and I came home to put on a dress that would make me fit to join the motley crew in Soho square. Before 1 had completed my disguise, Montague entered, equipped for the siime place, and proposed our calling in grosvenor square for a quarter of an hour. I agreed, and we went to Lady X — — ’s, where a crowd of mashs were assembled. About one we entered Caiiisie house, and there by consent separated. In little more than an hour I was pretty well tired of the nonfensc I spoke, and that was addressed to me, to keep up thed.pirit od. the thing; and meditated making my retreat. I was dtfeending the stairs with that intent, when Belfielde and Frederick Montague met me with their malks off— — informed them that I was going; they M'ondered at it, Saying they never Saw more brilliant company than were then assorted,
I
  5
-- I pleaded fatigue — Belfielde declared Such an excuse inadmissible, and desired me to use my diligence in helping him to disca ver Lady Julia Herbert.
“You may imagine how clever a Mercury you employ, ” replied I: “I never Saw her in my life!” Never saw her V repeated the Count, with a look of the utmost astonishment. — In England So long, and not to have beheld that wonder of the creation !” and he turned from me with a look of contempt. I joined Frederick in laughing at him, but he yiould take no further notice of me, and I pursued my way. Montague thoughtlessly called after me, “You had best return, (3fmond !” It made me known to Several, amongst whom
^ O
was Rainsford. He came up to me, and laid hold of my arm. He could not disguise his voice, though his face was hid.
Well, osmond, ” cried he, Is there not an assemblage here of as handsome women as any in Italy V
“Faith, my Lord, ” returned I, “I have given myself no trouble to draw comparisons : I leave that for one of your nice judgement to do.” ^
B 3 “What I
6  ,
“What! — you are prejudiced against them, because they have yet paid no adulation to your fine person! — They have not as much taste here as at Milan. — Let me tell you, my i.ord, the Lady who signalised you with So great a preference — who kept you So long abroad — your Violent — handsome as I once thought her — is but a soil to” -- -- --
“From my long fiay abroad your lord ship may forget my character; else you would know, that I never fail to resent any language that borders upon impertinence, I am ignorant wshat right you have to mark me as an objet that will put up with it — I am equally ignorant of the right you have to penetrate into my motives for staying at any place.”
“You Speak in a very high manner, Ofmond !”
“You deserve that I Should do foi my Lord.”
« No — by no means -- 1 meant not to
offend, and beg your pardon, if I have been So unfortunate.”
“dearrainsford, what a reproach to my warmth! — I must entreat forgiveness for ifupposing it your intention.”
He
t
  ^
He insisted on my staying half an hour longer. After this little fracas I would not refuse him; So we went together into the cotillon rpom very good friends. — rains ford is disagreeable when the least inebriated, and, after his farcasm at bingley’s, I could not So readily pass by his assured manner of Speaking, as I perhaps ought ta have done. — He owes me a Spite for happening to be more in violante’s good graces than he was. Soon after we met at Milan. However, after a little exertion of Spirit, I found him docile and pleasant enough.
On entering the cotillon room, I beheld an inexpressibly elegant form, dressed as a pilgrim. — I was instantly struck with a notion that it was the very identical one I
had met at the Convent of -- -- -- -- -- inparis.
I went up and spoke to her. Her voicfe confirmed my suspicions. I never quitted her, but could not make any discovery of her face, or who she stas, tho’ I invoked her in the words of shakespeare’s Ferdinand,
“I do beseech you,
(Chiefly that I might Set it in my prayers,)
What is your name ?*''
B 4 I alked
M mas(luera0esj or,
L ashed her to dance. She consented. Heavens! what grace did she display! I tom her, I would give millions to see her face.
“That I will endeavour to prevent, ’^ replied she, “lest it should deprive me of the conquest you say my figure has made.” I assured her, she was no stranger to me.
Very probably, ” she answered;; “to Say the truth, 1 never Saw you before —
at least to my knowledge. -- Who are
you, pray .^ -- My curiosity is excited.” “And can you, Madam, ” cried I, “have So little conscience as to ash my name, after this minute declaring you will endeavour to conceal yourself from me? — You desire to know me that you may more effectually do it. — Come, come, I positively must be gratified in beholding the lovely features which that mash hides !”
“Indeed, Sir, you have a very false idea of my countenance. My portion of vanity is immoderate; it bids me not destroy the favourable impreshon I have been lucky enough to make under this piece of silk, — But where did you ever see me before ?” “In Paris.” “Aye! I thought you were mistakenand she turned to leave me.
“Indeed
 , 9
“Indeed I am not; — my imagination has continually dwelled on this celestial image since I gazed with rapture on it in the convent of -- -- -- -- at Paris. Do you forget
your amiable friend the Princess de
'-- -- -- -, ^” -- ‘‘good God! who are you?’*
I withdrew my mask“ “you never Seen any resemblance to this face before ?”
Never -- -- -- but 1 am Sure you are my
Lord osrnond !’*
“And who are you, you angelic creature .^ -- Keep me no longer in luspenfe — I came over with an intention of finding:
t
you out. — Had not Success crowneo ray wishes, I must have died of despair. -- This meeting is propitious! — By Heaven I will not lose the advantage of it, nor quit you
till” -- -- - “Lady Henrietta Marchmonc
comes to free me from the gallantry of her captive -- Haha ha !”
“What have I to do with Lady Henrietta ?- — No, listen to the vows I breathe on this
celestial hand, never to love another.” --
“My Lord, you forget you have not Seen myfiice — and this hand I must withdraw.’'* “hoc till you tell me who you are.” “I am of character and family, my Lord, andj
B 5 as
10 MAS QJJ E R A D E S; or,
as Such, I am Sure you will consider the delicacy due to me.”
“Wshen I forget it. Madam, to any of your adorable Sex, but more especially to you, may I be abandoned by you !• — the greatest curse that can fall on me.” — 1 resigned her hand, as she grew uneasy; but, whilst I was in possession of it, what tumultuous throbs of joy agitated my Soul! Montague, can the libertine’s most sensual gratification yield the hundredth part of enjoyment that is afforded us by the siight est favour from the virtuous object of our love? -- Ah! that Some of our friends, who are plunged in vice, could draw the comparison! Libertinism in their breasts would exist no longer.
I again entreated my fair pilgrim to dance.' She whispered a lady in a domino, on whose arm she constantly leaned; and, when she had received her answer, a Second time blessed me with her hand. After we had finished, a gentleman came to her, and engaged her for the next cotillon. — How I envied him, when I heard her consent to ■ his request! — As she was preparing for the. dance, a person (that Iwas not unacquainted
with.
X
X
  II
with, tho’ I could not recoiled!: his name, nor where I had Seen him) in a lilac domino told her, Jhe muji find it very inconvenient from the heat to dance with a majk on. She replied, Jhe did not mind it. He uttered Some further objection, which the lady I mentioned joined in— — she immediately dropped the envious covering which had hindered a multitude from feasting their sight on the
..... most replenished Sweet
Work of Nature which from the Prime Creation eer she framed.”
I
4 '
/
Ah, Montague! what were my emotions at viewing the very face I Saw at Paris! I gazed with rapture on her, and for Some minutes could not Speak. She looked at me with a blush, and exclaimed,
“Henceforward, my Lord, be more cautious how you raise your expedlations.”
She flew with Colonel Cecil (for he was the happy man), and I stood as near as possible, adoring even the ground she beat with her pretty, well managed feet. The dance being done, I attended her, back to her
B 6
I
12 MA SQ.ISERAD ES; or,
party. I found them all unmashed, and that the lady in the domino was Lady Pemberton, who directly introduced me to Lord Pemberton, and afterwards presented this lovely girl, who has been So long a foe to my rest — whose name I have hitherto thought of with a prejudice bordering on disgust — whom I have vowed to Search every
corner of the globe for -- this admirable
Lady did she present to me under the title
of Lady Julia Herbert. -- -- -- And now,
Montague, I cannot in reason but allow you to laugh at my ablurdities respedting this first of women. -- My heart is So dilated with ecstasy, that I could follow your example.
Under mashs there was nothing extraordinary in the. declaration I had made Lady Julia. It might pass as a masquerade conversation; ^ -- but the disguise once removed, I dared not continue to address her in the Same style, though she must have plainly Seen my heart wished to be allowed Such happiness. Our acquaintance was too short certainly for it to be proper. I ashed Lady Almeria to dance. She is too much like her sister not to be a lovely obieist.
They
  13
They were both habited exacstly the Same, and appeared divinities, though in terrestrial characters.
Belfeilde joined us, and Seemed con sumedly in love!
Lady Henrietta Marchmontand her aunf came up to Lady Pemberton and her charming daughter as I was standing by the latter. Lady Julia looked at me and Smiled — I took no further notice of the ladies than to bow to them. Rainsford and Frederick rallied me on changing my mind, and congratulated me on finding my relish for the masquerade return so surprisingly. Belfieide alked me how I approved of his choice? and whether I did not think Jhe would eclipse all the heauhes of the French court when he carried her over? — What an opiniated puppy! I hate the blockhead for his presumption.
When Lady Pemberton gave the word to depart, and was informed her carriage waited, as I was next to Lady Julia I offered her my hand. Seymour endeavoured to anticipate me: I showed him the prize I had obtained, and bowed. He drew a Sigh and retreated. I was not So lost in my own happiness as not to fed his disappointment.
j4 masqluerades or,
ment — I was vain enough to hope that I might discover Some approbation in Lady julia’s countenance. My aspiring impertinence was punished; — she behaved with an equal affability to all, that mortified me, tho’ I admired her prudence the more for it. She must have perceived the conquest she had made, and most girls would have shown a sort of joyful levity, very flattering to a man’s expectation. Here it was different. — But Lady Julia Herbert is too well accustomed to captivate, to view it in any other light than a thing of course, which must happen when Such transcendent beauty appears.
Lord Pemberton hoped I was informed
that he had left his name at my door. 1
will immediately dress, wait upon the Duke of Westmoreland, whom I have not Seen these five days; and if I can get away from him in any tolerable time, will pay my re specls in Portman square — If not this morning, the evening must be allotted to that purpose; for my heart pants with impatience once more to behold my Julia. — — Ah, Montague! what an ecstatic thought! May she be mine! — Unite with me in praying
 : 15
t
ing for the realisation of it, and I shall be the happiest of men.
kiss Lady louifa’s hand for
Your faithful
Osmond.
To Lady Louisa Sydney.
Portman square*
IN Spite of your assertions to the contrary, I cannot help thinking your description of “Henry, Marquis of Ofmond, ’’ has in it an air of rapture very dangerous to the peace of Sir Charles Montague. — You may be angry, louisa, but 1 declare it as my opinion, that, if you mean to adt honourably, you ought to keep up no further acquaintance with this blazing comet, who came over with no other intention, I aistually believe, than to destroy the hearts of all the English women.
I have
/
%6   cri
have Seen my Lord — Yes, he is certainly handsome — I allow it — but he is yet more agreeable — Such vivacity, — - Such brilliancy of wit, Such delicacy iit his conversation to our Sex, — Such an address, — Such— — short, louisa, 1 am determined to follow the advice I give you, and See
him no more. -- -- Prepared as I was by
your prognostications, how could I do otherwise than be charmed! You half pcrsuacled me into a passion for Lord of mond before 1 beheld him — cruel girl 1 — yet you knew him to be engaged
\vell, my louisa, to leave this nonsenfi cal style, 1 do think Sir charles’s friend, sans badinf comes up to your description : he is a most delightful object - — Surely not So infallible a one at captivating as you imagine. My curiosity has been fully gratified since I received your letter. Last Monday I was introduced to Lord Ofmond at the masquerade. I danced with him once or twice in the course of the night. Before we unmasked, I happened to fall in his way, and he accosted me with the gallantry (adapted to the place) of a Frenchman. He was habited as a Mercury: I
never
  27
never Saw So becoming a dress, or one So well calculated to show to perfection his elegant form but indeed Such a person must adorn any garb; and the tinsel and feathers he appeared in on Monday borrowed the greatest part of their lustre from the beauty of the wearer. In doing justice to the handsome Henry, you are not to cast a Sarcastic Smile on this paragraph, louisa. .... I can admire charms, as well in man as woman, without being in love. I think I shall never fall a victim to that passion.
Yesterday evening Lord osraond came to Portman square. We, had company; a good part of which Surrounded the card tables, whilst others were engaged in little parties. Lady Mortimer, miss Edgcumb, Sir James Westbrook, and myself, had formed one at the lower end of the room. Wc were repeating over the occurrences of the masquerade. Lord osmond jlrglud towards us, and took a seat next to me: he was in admirable Spirits, and gave life to the conversation. An hour and a half flew away before we imagined the third part of the time was elapsed; and it was
with
i8 M ASQ.UERADES; or,
with infinite reluctance we Saw him steal out of the room.
But, dear louisa, where is the melancholy you perceived depidted in his countenance? I see none of it. But I am not the physiognomist you are : and si am glad of it in this cafe; for, though a stranger to me, I should be grieved to behold So amiable a man a prey to wretchedness. I jested with him (under a mash, observe) about Lady Henrietta: he denied his being a lover of hers. So honest a countenance to conceal So much artifice! Fie,
my Lord! -- -- Sophia Neville arrived in
town this evening: she Spends the next fortnight with ns, during my uncle’s tour into Devonshire. Judge how happy my Lord Pemberton is!
The day after tomorrow we are all to go down to Lord mortimer’s seat at Windsor, where we shall stay four days, A hundred beaux are to be of the party; Lord Ofmond will be one of them. Every day is to be Spent in a diversity of amusements. ■.. Oh that you were Lady louisa Montague
! Until you are, we shall never have you amongst us. For my Sake, be expeditious
<•
  19
tious in changing your name you know not with what impatience I wait for the moment that will give you once more to
\
Julia Herbert.
I heard a week ago that Colonel Elliot had embarked : may Heaven protect him 1
Commend me properly to Sir Charles.
r
\
V
i
»
n
i
20
Sir Charles Montague'
jvindfof,
I AM, by an invitation from Mortimer at this place, with his family and Lady pemberton’s, in which I include Lady Sophia Neville : the rest of the lovely Sex are too numerous to particularise. The men consist of nine or ten of your most intimate friends, that belong to our club.
You can form no idea of the happiness I enjoy in the Sweet julia’s company. How complete would it be rendered could I but hope for the siightest partiality from her in my favour! But, alas! Montague, I See not the remotest appearance of it; nor is there the least difference in her behaviour to me and to Budenall, Frederick Montagne, and Seymour, who live each of them on her Smiles. I might have added Westbrook to the list, who adores her, and shows it most by the pains he is at to conceal it. Yet Surely their passions for her are not to be compared to mine 1 ..... But how unreasonable an animal I am! Is it not a greater felicity than I once hoped
for.
  21
for, to gaze on her, -- to converse, to ride, - — and dance with her ^ Assuredly it is; and the Same benevolent genius that led me to a discovery of the object of my wishes, may yet guide me to the possession of her. In that dear hope I will give myself up to my present bliss, nor Suffer another fear to taint the joys which gild the few days that are spent at Windsor.
Can you., my Charles, account for the inconsistency of my heart, which, though it loves to distradtion, will not permit my tongue, in any of the favourable opportunities that offer, to tell its feelings to
Lady Julia?........yet, on ressedtion, I
find the cause: : is a divinity about her, which inspires a reverential awe, and brings constantly to my sense the idea that
no man is worthy of her. -- And again —.
should I be rejected— — horrible! horrible To be divested of hope — distradlion must follow. -- -- Farewei!
Tours ever,
Osmond.
Lo
22 mas(^ueradesjor,
Lady Louisa syonry.
'Portman square,
WE returned this morning from Lord
mortimer’s, delighted with our excursion. Where a vast deal of pleasure is looked for beforehand, in parties of this sort, (as you observed in a former letter,) people generally come back disappointed. Our expectations on this occasion were greatly raised, and fully answered. Every person’s endeavour was exerted to render the time agreeable. The ladies were constantly dressed in Smiles: the gentlemen were gallant and assiduous, and strove to deserve them. We daiiced, rode, viewed the castle and adjacent Seats; — in short, not a single minute hung heavy on any of us. Lady Mortimer Seems determined to inspire us all with her gaiety. She has formed parties for everyday and evening during a fortnight, and means to conclude the round of dissipation by giving a grand ball. Almeria (who is exactly on her model) is in raptures. Thank Heaven, as yet this racketting life Seems to agree with Lady
Pemberton I
  23
Pemberton! I never Saw her look better. But my stupid disposition hinders me from enjoying it to So high a degree as others do. Talready feel tired to death, and know not how I am to manage to keep pace with them in the whirl I am drawn into: and yet the four last: days will appear days of rejt to those I am to encounter.
L am now dressed for the opera, and hear a Summons to quit my pen. Do nor, dear ' louisa, expect me to write again till my senses are a little composed. -- I must inform
you that Lord Budenall has done me the honour of offering me his hand, which, you may Suppose, 1 rejected, but with all the delicacy I could assume proper for the occasion. — — I come, dear Caroline; and
am, my Louisa, your
$■
Julia Herbert,
t
\ '
1
/
0
114 M A S CLU ERADES; or,
✓
To Sir Charles Montague.
tvmdfor.
WAS Lady louisa out of the question,
dear Montague, I should murmur most vehemently at your changing your plan of coming up to town about this time.; but, as fbe is the object who detains you, I cannot sind in my soul to complain, though I never wished more for your presence than I do now. However, I must (as you tell me) be contented to let another three weeks pass over ere I can ' See you; -- but I cannot avoid hoping that you may not lengthen your stay in the country beyond that period.
Pemberton and I are become very intimate. I find him what report Speaks him, amiable, Sensible, and elegant; — but there is a trait in his character that particularly attradls my admiration and esteem : it is, an exquisite delicacy of feeling and Sentiment, which on every occasion ssiines forth in'the most exalted light. In a few weeks hence he presents his cousin to the world as Lady Pemberton. I cannot tell how I |igh when I behold the happiness he enjoys

  2^
joys with his Sophia! — You must judge what my ressedtions are at Such times Were you not, dear Charles, an amatory I should fear that my pen persecutes you with dwelling for ever on my Julia; — but, you are under the dominion of the Same passion that agitates my Soul, though the objects are different; and Sympathy will teach you to feel my situation, and be rather pleased than otherwise with the inexhaustible theme.
Yesterday Lady Mortimer and the two Lady herbert’s were riding in the Park, which was very full, when Frederick Montague and I met and joined them. We had not proceeded a hundred yards before an impertinent Scoundrel, on a Sudden, rushed whth amazing rapidity by Lady julia’s horse, with a view of alarming her. His vile intention Succeeded. She was on a beautiful creature of her brother’s that she always chuses to ride, which having a good deal of Spirit, and finding himself curbed from getting into a race, pranced and reared So violently, that, with all her Skill, she could not keep her Seat, and I dismounted but just time enough to catch her in my
vol. II C arms
/
/
a6
arms from being thrown to the ground : she was near fainting • a crowd assembled, which added to herdistrcss; and it was with difficulty I could Support her, trembling, to Lady mortimer’s coach, that waited at the bar. After putting the ladies in, Frederick and I went in pursuit of the rascal, who was making off at feeing us return; but 1 overtook him, and gave him the chastisement lie So richly deserved. He called himsels a gentleman, and Swore he would have Satisfaction. I believed not a syllable of the former assertion, from his behaviour to a woman; and, as to the latter, was in Some perplexity to know how that could be brought about, as, in my opinion, nothing could sacissy a man who had Submitted to the contamination of the cane or whip : however, I ordered my' groom to tell him who I was, and where to be found, which he did in my hearing. After this I went to Portman Square, and there was informed that Lady Julia was greatly indifposed from the terrorishe had endured, i was quite confused at the profusion of acknowdedgemenis Lord and Lady Pemberton poured upon me, and was about to sty from them, when the heavenly
  27
venly girl came down to add her thanks to theirs. She hoped I received no hurt in ex tricating her from so dangerous a fall as hess mufi have proved,, but for my humane af jijiance. I he beautiful languor which overspread her face, — the melting accents of her voice, — transported my Soul to ecstasy! — I could not fbrbear to Snatch her hand to my lips; — nor was she displeased at my temerity : — the roses, indeed, stew back for a minute to her cheeks, and then quitted again their usual habitation. She appeared a real invalid; and I, fearful of intruding, took my leave : however, she is now so much better, that I am in hopes of finding her presently, with her mother, cat Drury-lane playhouse— — and know me always
Your faithful
Osmond.
C 2 Ta
28
Sto Lady Louisa Sydney.
P ortman square.
An unlucky accident which happened
yesterday morning gives me the leh Sure of an hour to write to my dear Louisa. As I am able to nse my pen, you will not be much alarmed when I tell you that ac cideni was a fall from my horse. It would inevitablyshave been fatal, from the manner in which I was thrown, if my Lord OSMOND had not, with a miraculous agility, jas they tell me, for, you may believe, I had no Senses at the time to observe anything,) Sprung from his horse, and come in time to. Save me from the fate which awaited me. The fright I was in was the chief inconvenience 1 felt: indeed, my Spirits have been Sadly deranged ever since. Mr. A * bled me last night, which has been of Service.
. I know not, dear Louisa, how to express to you the gratitude my heart is filled with towards Lord osmond for his kind solicitude at the moment of my distress, exclusive of what 1 pwe him for my pre
L Servation

Servation. — Such humanity and tenderness as appeared in his countenance! — So eager to Save me from the curiosity of the gathering crowd! — So delicate and respedtful in his manner! — IDO say with you, indeed, ‘‘ How happy will that woman be who possesses his affections!” I think I arn from hence bound to esteem him with the
K
Utmost friendship.
My mother, Lady Mortimer, and alme ria, are gone to the play : I begged to be left' at home, pleading that I was not Sufficiently recovered to go into public. Lady Pemberton was so good as to hold my ex cuse admissible, and grant my request.
When do you intend to give your hand to Sir Charles ^ That event once over, if I d V not see you, I shall at least have the pleasure of hearing from you again, I trust : — at present it appears to me as if you Were entirely lost to every objecl but the One you are so soon to call yours. confi der the length of time which has elapsed since the date of your last letter, and then blame me, if you can, for this observation-
-- -- yet, how unreasonable 1 am, not
to make allowances for your situation!! —
3 Pardon
f
30
Pardon me, my louisa; I See — and hate myself for my petulaiicy.
I fuppose, after Sir Charles enters the matrimonial list, his friend will very Soon fellow his example. Blessings attend him! — But indeed, my louisa, 1 cannot think Lady Henrietta So adequate a match as he deserves in any respedt but fortune; and. Surely, that is the meanest of all considerations! Lord osmond Seems not to like
%
'her: — but are we not taught to believe that men are compositions of artifice? and is it not natural to conclude that they always dress their thoughts in masquerade? How strange!
I shall be.accufed of vanity, if two letters running tell you in each of a new lover — I must run the risk: : — ah, louisa! you know but little of the disposition of my heart, if you fusped: such lovers can give me an idea of triumph.
The Count de Belfielde has made his addresses to me in form: I need not add that I answered him as I did Lord Budenall — but there is no getting rid of him; he still perseveres to torment me. What absurdity!
— as if that would induce me to change
my
/
V
  31
my resolution! -- -•! cannot paint to you
my chagrin the other night, at the opera, when he anticipated Lord osmond in lead ino; me to the carriage.
tomorrow my sister gives her ball: I believe it will be very Superb. After that. Lady Percivasts is to be given; and then niy mother follows their lead. — I never was more tired of dissipation than at present. I Sigh for a few tranquil hours to recover the Serenity of mind which this bustling life has deprived me of. — Good Heaven! what an idle pursuit is that of pleasure! I can Safely avow it is not to be found in a crowd of Splendid people, nor in the pageantry and mummery of Spectacles. I am happy to think that a couple of months will Sec us in the country a change I wish for' with impatience. Would the time were now come! — Ah, my louisa! how this abominable fall has depressed my Spirits! — I will write no more, lest my letter should have the Same essed on yours. — I must just add, that my uncle is returned to London, and has taken Sophia home; but she is still in all our parties. Ever your asseftionate
Julia Herbert.
C 4
\ ■
22 MASQ, uerade'sj or,
To Lady Julia Herbert.
Sommerville houft.
t
Ah, my Julia! — my friend 1 — what a
letter have I from you First let
me repeat my thanks to Heaven for your escape, and again beg eternal rewards on Ofmond for his timely protection! — But fpr him, what a wretch might I be at this moment! My blood stagnates at the idea. And next Suffer me to clear myself from the injustice of your unkind suspicion, by informing you that my silence proceeded from a total inability to use a pen. In attempting to open one of the Swivels of my watch chain, I was obliged to use a knife, wshich nipped and cut my right hand So terribly, that I could neither write nor work till this morning that the Surgeon allowed me to do both. Do not be uneasy; for it is no longer of any consequence. I was fearful of alarming you, or you should have been acquainted with the accident Soon after it happened,
/ But
  33
But what, my Julia, is the matter? — Never did I know in my life more even Spirits than yours. “jdiffipation dijlurb the serenity of your mind V Oh! no, no, no!
-- -- Some other canfe has done that mischief
— Tour fall? — Wshy it might at the time, and for a few hours after; but it goes against my creed to ascribe So great a change to a temporary shock, attended (Heaven be praised!) by no injury. Can a little terror miake you quarrel with amnfements you took delight in a few weeks ago? — Can that account for your being So Suddenly Satiated with them as to desire to leave London, zndi Jigh for the moment that will carry you from it? -- -1 will not, dear Julia, intrude
upon you my conjedures — Let me on ly beg you will Search in your own bosom for the Source of this alarming perplexity and then be as candid as you have ever been in acquainting me with it. I am interrupted -- -- —
* * 'lt « * *
'* » * ^ * *
- “Sir Charles — my dear Sir Charles! could not leave me at the expiration of the fort
c5 night;
/
34
night: he agreed to bless us three weeks longer with his company. Ten days of the time have already nipped away : at the end of it he will go up to London for a week, to see that everything is in readiness against he carries to your gay metropolis the happy woman who will call him hers -- 1 have promised to give him my hand at the altar very Soon after his return. — Julia, how near the awful moment approaches, in which the name of Sydney will be sunk into that of Montague! — Shall I, think you, always find him the Same amiable object that he now appears — Will not the lordly hus band, the despotic ruler, Succeed the tender, gentle, insinuating lover — Unjust surmise— — profanation to entertain a doubt of my Montague! — As much So as to sus ped him of insincerity, or throw a reflection on his fidelity. The happy Sunshine that breaks upon my fate has renovated Sir george’s health and Spirits: he Sees company; nay, ventures to go out to air in his chaiie! -- Therestof us (you know we have an excellent neighbourhood) make parties, visit, dance, have concerts, and
are antidotes to dulness and chagrin. — But
there
 $
there my pen ran into an egregious mistake. immersed as I am in So much g?de ty, a few pangs have found their way to my heart since I received your last letter. Should my Julia be a prey to melancholy, how will my felicity be embittered! — Felicity I — I cannot know an idea that comes near the word, whilst you are unhappy. — No more on this Subject for your Sake and my own till I receive your next, which will either dissipate my doubts, or confirm my fears.
Sir Charles commissioned Lord osmond when he went up to take him a houle (which we both like) in Cumberland street. The instant he proposed it to me, I approved of it, for its near situation to port man sq.uare; and I was not difpleased at being informed that it was the house which Lady Caroline Denley and her niece resided in when I was with you in town. The elegancy of it, you may remember, we both extolled.
Was miss Edgcumb with you at Windsor Poor girl 1 — This question leads to a topic I am much interested in, Lord pemberton’s marriage. May he and his Sophia
C 6 experience
#
36
experience every bliss that attends the state they are So Soon to enter I If my prophetic Soul does not, err, they will be a very happy couple. I hope we shall meet, dear Julia, before you go into the country — It certainly muji happen; for I have already Teen debarred too long of the pleasure I hold most dear upon earth.
Lord osmond is a constant correspondent of Sir charles’s. 1 should like to know the Subject of his letters— — am Sure Lady Henrietta is not — But his friend is very Secret, and, you may fuppose, I do not even cast a curious look at him, when he Speaks of hearing from his Henry.
Last night Sir Charles again expressed to me his regret that you are So difficult to please in your choice, and Said, he would give a great deal to know., if there was a man in the world for whom y ou had a 'predilection. Hiseyes werestedfastly fixed in my face while he Spoke. I inquired his motive — He made no other answer, but “Ah, louisa, I wissi”
“tvhat ?” -- -- I must not tell” --
“I Will be as reserved, Sir Charles.” He was going to reply, when I was called to the quadrille table., What can he mean?
Surely,
  ^7
Surely, Julia, his inquisitivenefs must in
Some measure be on osmond’s account! -- -- -- -
If So, I join hiiti in his I wijp* -- -- -
The conversation after Supper turned on the beauties who adorn our Court. I inquired if Lady Henrietta might be classed amongst them f “No indeed !” answered Col.bingley. “Is she Sensible, Sir Charles?” Faith I am ignorant of it if she is; but I have a very slight acquaintance with her.” “That is astonishing, as she is So Soon to be your friend’s wise !” My friends wife! Lady Louisa— — paused— — “she is introduced to me by that title., I shall then be privileged to a nearer intimacy, and will inform you.”
Sly creature !~ What am I to think? Adieu, dearest Julia! Never doubt that you poffess half the heart (the other half is Montague's) of your
Louisa sybney.
0
%
w
%
38 M A S UE R A D E S; or,
Lo Sir Charles Montague.
St. yamefs squaret
YOU will be Sorry to hear of the embarrassed and distressed situation I have been in for many days pash The morning after Lady pemberton’s ball, I drove to my father’s, meaning to attend him ta Court. At Saluting him, I observed a sternness in his aspedk that boded me no good. He was very silent; and, when he had finished his toilet, we stepped into his chariot; but, before we left the door, he desired, if I was not very particularly gauged, I would dismiss my vis d vis, and re -- turn in his carriage with him to dinner., and consent to Jpend the evening in the manner he Jhculd appoint. I assented to his first pro posal, but declared myself engaged at eight d.clock. I ordered my Servants to go home, and return at that hour. We drove ossi. and, after a short pause, his Grace began with the following inquiry : Pray, my
Lord, may I be permitted to aik what is to be done at eight o’clock, that you are then So indispensably obliged to leave me ?” “I
am
I
  39
am engaged, my Lord, to be of Lady pent berton’s party to a private concert and
from thence to attend her to the Festino.”
/
“Always in Lady pemberton’s Suite !” “Certainly your Grace can find no objection to that; — a woman So universally admired, that it is the greatest advantages young man can wish for to be admitted to her acquaintance.” — “I admire yoiir thufiafm on the Subject; but perhaps your Sentiments and mine differ on this head. However, you can write an excuse from grosvenor square. You must be of my party this evening.” ‘‘ I beg your Grace
to consider” -- -- -- - “Well, I will —
Since the order of nature is to be reversed, — the Son to command, and'the parent obey, — 1 have nothing to do but to Submit -- pursue your engagementbut remember, Harry, that you dine with me again tomorrow, and I expect to have the evening from you.” I bowed obedience, happy to have been So well excused;; flattered myself the gathering storm which appeared upon his brow would be dissipated ere fresh matter could arise for further altercation. He did not condescend to
Speak
A
\
t
40 MAS(^UERADES; or.
Speak another Syllable to me during the time we were confined together in the chariot. What were my ressedions, are best kept to my own bosom : they were not to my father’s honour, — nor perhaps to my own credit.
Lord and' Lady Pemberton, the two Lady herbert’s, Lord and Lady Mortimer, were at the drawing-room, which was a very full one. I directly joined the herbert’s; and, casting my eyes Some minutes after on the Duke, perceived him looking at me with the utmost indignation and passion blended in his countenance. Soon after came in Mrs. Aubrey, and her niece Lady Henrietta Marchmont; the latter lb, loaded with jewels, that she Seemed to totter under their weight, and was a thousand times more conspicuoussy ugly from their glare. I turned my eyes with horror from this hideous object, and rewarded them for though penance they had undergone, by feasting them on my angel Julia, who appeared infinitely handsomer from Such a contrast. She was elegantly dressed, without extravagancv either of fashion or exo
i
pence; her beauty added charms to, instead
V
/
  41
stead of borrowing them from, her attire : every one was fixed in contemplation of her; even my father looked at her with spiteful admiration, and, I believe, could with truth have repeated,
s
\
— -- -- -- -- - “Even /, who hate her.
With a malignant joy behold Such beauty.
And, while f curse, desire it.”
However, he with difficulty left gazing on her, and turned his attention to Lady Henrietta, to whom he paid So much resped*, that one less in the Secret than I am would be convinced he intended her to be my. mother, instead of his daughter.
When the drawing-room broke up, and we were Seated once more in the chariot,
I alked his opinion of Lady Julia and Lady Almeria Herbert.
“They are very handsome certainly, ” he replied. “It is a pity they have not better fortunesbut' they can Scarcely hope to marry men on a foot with themselves in point of family.” ‘V Good Heaven! why not? Is your Grace jeally in earnest?” “Assuredly I am! Ten thousand pounds, which is the utmost they are
each
4
/•
42
each entitled to by their father’s will, fs no object in this age; and our nobility have more prudence than to marry women merely because they have pretty faces.” — “If 1 may judge from my own Sentiments, my Lord, their notions are not So illiberal, — -
they would” -- -- “I have no doubt but
your notions are thoroughly romantic, — and beg you will Spare me from hearing the absurdity of them.” “I beg your grace’s pardon; 1 meant not" to trouble you with my conversation.” I was silent; So was he. When we got to his house, by his desire, I followed him to his library. After we were Seated, without much preamble, he informed me that it was his intention to bring about a match between Lady Henrietta and me. He recapitulated the many obligations I owe him : -- his not marrying a second time, leji it might hurt rny fortune \ -- his trying to gratify every request I made him \ -- the expenftve manner in which he allowed me to live \ -- and, to complete all, the regard he tefiified for my happiness, in providing so eligible a connefhon for me, against my return from abroad: -- - I could have no objefhon to it: — every advantage
conspired
  43
%
conspired to make it a delightful onet -- titley fortunes and merits centred in Lady Henrietta. After a full half hour*s panegyric on So desirable an acquisition, he concluded with telling me, that, unless I consented to obey his commands, I never should possess a shilling of his. I did not once interrupt him whilst he Spoke, but when want of breath obliged him to stop, I Seized the opportunity, and replied — As to your threat, my Lord, it has no Sort of effe<st on my disposition; for I regard money So little, that your Grace is welcome to dispose of your fortune to any object you think more descrving of it: I shall never murmur. But the refiedion that your difpleasure will follow my refusing to marry Lady Henrietta, indeed astiidts me, — penetrates me to the heart: — yet I must encounter Such a misfortune, since honour to the person you approve of, as well as regard to myself, direct me to shun So horrible an union. Some other man, my Lord, may do justice to the lady’s worth -- I am insensible to it; and. So far from viewing her in the favourable light you do, confess she is the most difgusting female 1 ever beheld, ” — He
was
/
44-
was outrageous — Having par malheur caused it, I was bound to bear it. he/ze; r hy Heaven he would abandon me; and added, “In Spite of your contempt for money, thou ridiculous blockhead! you will in a short time know its value, when you are destitute of the means to Supply yoursclf with the common Sustenance of nature then you may too late curse your rashness, and regret the forfeiture you now make of
my benevolence and tenderness- -- you
have been educated to fill the department of a very fine gentleman, I know of no other way you have to avoid for a while the gripes of penury, but by taking a purse, or loading the dice.” — Oh, Montague 1 — What language! I would with pleasure have Sacrificed a limb at the moment, to have had the consanguinity dis solved, that I might convince him, that
“Tho’ I am not Splenetive and rash.
Yet have I in me Something dangerous. Which should his wisdom fear.
L
But nothing could break the tie he was
Jiill With difficulty I confined
my
  45
my impetuous Spirit, and remained silent. He paused, because articulation was denied him — when it returned, he went on thus :
“The expense, the enormous expense I was at during your stay abroad, is well rewarded, my good Marquis, is it not? — Thus it is to pass whole years in planning future felicity for a Son, who proves a disgrace to me -- -- Oh good God! why were
you not So kind as to ordain, that the Same moment which Saw his mother expire, should allb witness his death .'’” — 1 could bear no mores; the recolledlion of his behaviour to that dear departed excellence, sired mv soul —
“I sincerely wish it had, my Lord, ” exclaimed I. “I must be allowed to say, I have had cause to blame Providence for not taking me with that amiable, but most ill-fated woman, ever since I lost her. That event was the unhappiest of my life — it was,
my Lord, the most joyful of yours. -- -- -- --
I have always known that you would not have another wish ungratisied, had the same burial Served us both. It was the wdll of Heaven that it should not; and my mother’s sufferings have been avenged by my
living.
. »
46
living. However, my Lord, in my own vindication, I must presume to contradict your assertion. As yet I have been no disgrace to you; and never, I beg you, Say So again, till I am actually detected stealing a purse, or loading the dice. The obligation between parent and child is mutual — After the words you have Spoken, I look upon mine as greatly cancelled. — I will take this unworthy wretch from your presence, my Lord; — you shall never more be troubled with him. — Well as I may be taught'to know the value of money, I will not Supplicate a farthing from you — and may every other of your wishes that can increase your happiness attend you stst — With an enlarged voice he cried, “Thou rash! — thou passionate boy! quit not the house. — — Perhaps you mean to build your future prospeds on one of the herbert’s Scanty fortune! but I am friend enough to tell you, that Pemberton will not give his sister to a titled beggar.”
“Good God! what a villain, a dark hearted villain am I thought! — Oh! that Such language was delivered from any
tongue
%
WHAT Y O U W I L L 47
tongue but a parent’s! — but here it ends.”
I motioned towards the door.
“Do not offer to leave my house. To retire will be well, that recollection may teach you the impropriety of Such in solence to that parent.”
I mean not to be insolent, my Lord; but whilst I remember what I owe you as a Son — I cannot forget what is due to myself as a man“
“my heroic youth, ” with a cursed contemptible Sneer, “you cannot better show your consideration oiyourjelf., than by entering into this alliance — You shall marry Lady Henrietta.” “I cannot, my Lord.” ‘.determined indeed! — Come, come, Harry, leave your attitudes for the edgar’s, the alonzo’s, the oreftes’s of the theatres; — we are performing no Scene in a play — sit
down and inform me” -- -- -- = —
“Suffer me to retire my Lord, or I shall again be called insolent.” “You may, osmond“ “ever, my Lord -- we shall meet no more! — Think better of me in a calmer moment than you do, and you will not be unjust.” I precipitately withdrew, and heard him ring the bell suri
ousiy.
48 MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
oussy. I met Several Servants running with consternation towards the room; they inquired of me the matter. “Do not be a!armed, my friends, ” replied I: “your Lord is well, but rather impatient.” I made the best of my way towards the hall; but as everything is of moment when one is agitated with hurry to get free, I must mention, that, in crossing the Saloon, I found a difficulty in turning the lock of the door that led out of it; it detained me Some Seconds; and I, not "knowing what impertinent rolighness 1 might experience, from Seven or eight fellows, hired to obey the despotic will of a furious master, all of whom 1 heard coming towards the apartment I was in, drew my sword— — making another effort, I burst open the lock just as they appeared at the other end of the room, and gained the street door unmolested, before the porter was informed that it was his lord’s intention that it should be barred against my departure.
Was there ever a more ridiculous situation — For a few minutes I was in doubt whether my father did not mistake my sex, and imagine me his daughter instead of
his
  49
his Son. I got into a chair as Soon as pof sible, and was brought home, too much disturbed, you may believe, to know what step to take, or where to ssy for consolation. The torments of the damned exceed not what I endured at the idea that my Julia must never be mine. — So far was my father from judging properly of my Sentiments, that, had Lord Pemberton presented her to me. — nay! had she herself made me i a voluntary offer of her hand, I should have had honour enough — affection enough, to
have refused either. -- -- But ah! what a
trial was I on the verge of encountering!. — to bid an eternal adieu to the woman, on whom my soul So fondly doted, that life would be worse than death after the pain,,
Separation commenced! -- You know,
my friend, how much I love, and can conceive what were the struggles of my heart at the time.
I was determined to see Lady Julia before 1 left london. When the hour arrived for the concert, I ordered my carriage and drove to Berkeley square; there I met Lady Pemberton and her group — Kilt's the concert was over I attended them to vol. II D the
I
50 MAS (U ERADES; or,
the Festino. Once, as I was Sitting next to Lady Julia, she asked, If I was indisposed? adding, she thought I was out oj Jpirits. There was Such a melodious harmony in her voice, and So touching a softness in her manner, when she alked the question, that I could Scarce refrain from pouring out my soul to her — from telling her of my passion and my despair. Whether my fancy was all delusion, or that the weak mind under affliction Seeks to catch at comfort from every appearance which might afford it, I know not — but I imagined the lovely girl discovered a greater attention to my conversation, there beamed forth more complacency from every beautiful feature when she Spoke to me, than ever I experienced from her before. I begged her to dance -- She recommended to me not to attempt it., as it might increase my indifpojition. I told her, if I had not the honour of being her partner., some happier man would enjoy that pleasure, and that 1 should suffer more from the envy that circumfiance mujt etc cite in my breast, than I could do from the most violent fatigued
How can you be always Such a flatterer, mv Lord “Indeed 1 am not a flatterer
J u ^
— Speak
k
  5*
— I Speak the real Sentiments of my heart - — Suffer me to lead you to the Set that is forming for a cotillon.” “I would not on any account be instrumental to your lordship’s illness: I should be execrated by all your friends -- -- One lady in particular
would think on me with horror.” I persisted in my request — or at least entreated a better reason for not being blessed with - her hand. To Satisfy me, she pleaded that she was not Sufficiently recovered from her late indisposition, to dance. I had the gratification of hearing her refuse Several gentlemen. The joy 1 felt at this little mark of preference could only be equalled by the torture of ressed; ing that I should probably never behold her after that night. — My blood now stagnates at the idea of what I endured at the time. Lady Pemberton proposed going to Ranelagh the next evening, and desired me to be one of her beaus......every thing combined to heighten
my anguish '■' — I know not how we happened to Speak of Elliot, but Lady Julia expatiated to me on his worth, and lamented his absence. She asked me whether I did not join in her sentiments of him? I
D 2 answered
5'2 MAS (LU E R AD E S; or,
I answered that I did indeed! and compaf jionated his sufferings more than it was in the pojjibility of words to etcprefs; far I believed few miseries could equal his. “What am I to understand by that, my Lord! — I hope Col. Elliot is not So very unhappy as you think him !’* “Surely he is, Lady Julia :
to love Such an object as your Sister, and to know she never will be his, is bitterness of Sorrow not to be born — there is not that curse upon earth which comes up to loving passionately and without hope.” I Spoke unguardedly — and as unguardedly clasped
my hands, precipitately — and sighed. -- -- --
1 recolledted myself, and dared to look up to Lady Julia. The colour had left her cheeks; her eyes were fixed on me with astonishment. “Is not Such a man entitled to pity, my Lady V’ The Subject is a melancholy one, my Lord; we will change it. sensibility is a quality not to be encouraged in Such a place, om modern fine people think — but it is only at present I wish to banish it, as my Spirits have not yet arrived at their usual height: they have been most miserably depressed since the day you afforded me Such kind assistance, and the
admit
  53
adtnittance of So painful a guest would make them as bad as ever.’*
When the dreadful moment arrived that announced their departure, I was petrisied — yet I collected strength enough to take Lady julia’s hand. I found she had. resigned her place in the coach to Lady Sophia Nevill, and that she and Lady Mortimer went in their chairs. The two ladies, therefore, Sir James Westbrook, and myself, fe|'*arated from the rest tv) go out by another way. As I put Lady Julia in, I ssipped down her glove, aiid pressed her Snowy wrist to my lips with ardour, once or twice. I clalped her hand to my heart, whilst I took a lajt view of her heavenly face — Something I Said in excuse for my freedom — what it was, I know not — then threw myself into my carriage, and played the boy — Had I not been relieved in that
manner, I must have been Suffocated. -- -- -
Never more to breathe was the sincere wish of my soul.
My determination was to have gone off with Captain Audley to Portsmouth, and to have embarked with him as a volunteer against the Americans. He is an intimate
D 3 friend
y
54
friend of mine, and I knew I could command him. I intended, after I got home, to undress, go to his lodgings, and lay my cafe before him — No time was to be lost -- I purposed leaving London (and for ever) in four hours after.
On alighting, Souville met me with bu finess in his countenance —
“My Lor, Monsieur Freebourne has been here dese two tree times, sin you
hab been gone...he fay” — I desired him
to have a little patience till I got to my jtuiy^ and then tell me what he said. I did not chuse that my footmen, c. should be privy to my father’s and my quarrel, though I had no doubt but it was well known to every Servant of the duke’s, When sou ville’s tongue was at liberty, he told me in his own language, (finding he could make, no way in English, though he is fond of showing the proficiency he thinks he gains in it,) that Freebourne (my. fathers butler) was much dijirejfed at finding he could not see me: he fufpefied for a long time that I was at home and had^given orders to he denied to him. He waited till two d.clock, and then declaring that his Grace would be difirafled,
called
  55
cdkd for pen, ink, csr. and. having written and carefully sealed a letter, put it into his hands, conjuring Mm, as he valued my happiness, to delay not a minute to deliver it to me at my return. I tore it open, and found it enclosed one from the Duke. The contents amazed me. I perused it three times before I could prevail on myself to believe £ was awake. — So different a style from what
V
I expected — Surely, thought I, the Duke is not inventing Some new method of ’ being yet more crued! His letter contained accusations of himself. He did not (it laid) deserve my forgiveness of his con dufl; the barbarity of which Jtruck him with remorse the infant I quitted him. He was anxious for me to return, that he might tell me so, and beg my pardon; therefore sent his servants to prevent my departure. As he took this method of informing me of his motive for causing them to behave in all appearance to me so insolently, he hoped I would forgive it, and of my own accord go to him the in fiant I had read his letter: that, from any other man, he would despair of obtaining the request, after such vile provocation as was given in the morning; hut when he thought
D 4 on
56 mais (ltjlradls; or,
/
on my fenfibiutymy generqfity.^ and henevo^ Jence., he had not a doubt of my relieving the heart of one who had even injured me’, efpe dally as that heart was so much attached to me, that, Should Heave England with an intention of going on any hazardous employment, which he feared might be my purpose)) would surely break; and Ve wai persuaded I ■could not enjoy peace when d recollefled that 1 had shortened his days. He concludes with bemoaning his unhappy temper, which carries him into such improprieties that he is not fit to live. ' ‘
Unfortunate man! at the time I condemn, I pity him! — Strict as our friendship has ever been, dear Montague, I have always veiled, as much as poshble, this failing of my father’s to you. You often questioned me about it from your own Suspicions. The whole truth could not be concealed — yet, as well as / could, I Screened him from censure, and, though I deceived you, thought myself justified from the motive. It is to no purpose to carry on the mask any longer, and I will reserve nothing from your Sympathising bosom. As Soon as I considered a little on my father’s letter,
I re
  57
\
1 resolved to attend him the moment he would be visible in the morning — But I doubted his protestations: I supposed the greatest advantage I should reap from them, wouldbe a six months change of conduct. During that time I should be at liberty to go where I pleased without control, or enter into any pleasures my heart approved — .but then — yet to proceed -- -- -- --
Honest freebourne’s letter was to this purpose: After apologising for the liberty, See. che Says,
That he muji give me a piece of information which concerned me nearly. Two years ago, the Puke mentioned to him, in ftribt confidence, that my mother's filler. Lady Anne Skefiey, left me at her death two thousand a year •, which 1 was to he put in poffefiion of at the age of one and twenty, and to hold it entirely independent of my father, whose name she execrated for not having been the tenderefi of hujbands to the mofi deserving of women.
As my father always had it in his view to form a connefiion between Lady Henrietta and me, he judged it proper to conceal from me this circumfiance; left a knowledge of my having resources, exclusive of what centred in
D 5 his
, P   or,
w
hts Jortune., might lead me to be refrafiory to his will: to effect which., he thought it fjeceffary to keep me abroad., till on the very eve of the time that the marriage Should be consummated fearing, amongst my numerons acquaintance, the generoftty of Lady Anne in my favour, Jhouldy in spite of his vigilance, become public, and, through feme blunder or officiousness of theirs in conversation, reach my ear prematurely ft he secret, he adds, Should never have escaped him, had he not dreaded that I should be persuaded to marry against my inclination, from the apprehenjion of being thrown dejiitute on the world if I refused obedience to my fathers harjh commands y ^or, if I had resolution enough to ref eft the unnatural authority, he trembled with horror to imagine, that in all probability I might put myself in the way of danger, and be in hajle to quit a world that I was injtrufted to think contained nothing hut dependence and poverty for me. His timely breach of confidence he hopes will save we from either fate; and he Shall bless the hour in which he gave up so ungenerous a truji. He urges me to be reconciled to my father; fears I behaved with more impatience to him than I ought to have Shown and pours forth
through
  59
thro’ the whole Such a warmth of affection, as Softened me more, a million of times, than my father’s fubmijfive., artfulxttxtxi artful I fear, is the just term.
Many a time has Freebourne Hiked being,, turned out of my father’s employ, lest “hs Should spoil mev He has been my monitor — my champion — and my consoler — In short, I have experienced more tenderness from him in one hour, than I ever did in my whole life from the man who was author of my birth. And let me own, my Montague, there was a time, which, memory will never permit me to lose sight of, that he was far the dearer to me of the two. Once (when six years old) I incurred his grace’s displeasure most Severely, by Saying, in the innocent frankness of my heart, “I wish my Lord you had Some other Son in my stead, and I was free bourne’s! I should dwell at his house below the westward copse, and go as plainly clad as a shepherd’s boy. I would lie awake whole nights studying how to give him pleasure: he would be So kind to me, no one would ever see me cry, my Lord, as long as he lived — I should be the happiest
D 6 boy
(
9
6o M ascbuer^ades; or,
boy in the world.” After being cliastifed for testifying io grovelling d. disposition, and So little gratitude for his fondness', I was dragged from my mother’s arms, where I. had Sought refuge from his sternness, and banished her presence for Some days. Pardon this puerile anecdote : his meant to give you a Specimen of the man, on whom, Heaven be praised, I no longer hold myself absolutely dependent.
When my unfortunate mother died -- -- --
Oh, my heart I — how freshly do the wounds Heed which that horrid incident first
caused!! -- -- I had received her last
kifs, wetted her cold hand with my tears — and heard her last fervent recommendation of me to Heaven — when I once more clasped my arms about her neck, and, with a voice choked with sobs, implored her not to Jeave me to my unkind father’s care, but
still to live and guard me from him -- -- -
in that agonising moment I heard her groan — I called her — All the reply she made was “Ah, my unhappy child !” Again I called on her — She could not .answer — the breath fled with another heartrending groan. -- -- -- Such a Scene was too dreadful

1
r
  6i
full for a boy of nine years of age to contend with, who had no fortitude to Support him, whose disposition was Sensibility - and gentleness combined, which was naturally inherited from, and strengthened by, the example of the best mother that ever existed — In the shocking instant that she expired, I shrieked and fainted. When I recovered, I found myself in my apartment in freebourne’s arms, who wept with me — who comforted me — who, in short. Supplied her place to me till I was Sent abroad, — excusethis digression; my tears will yet fall at this dismal recollection.
^ ^ ^ i ^ ^ ^
You will wonder how a man, So much my friend should be chosen my father’s confident. -- -- His long residence in the family,
which occasions his being treated more as a companion than a Servant — his astonishing worth and tried honour, unite to make him a respectable person in every one’s opinion. My father loves him, I am persuaded, the best of any creature breathing; therefore your admiration will cease at the
duke’s
I
6a
duke’s lodging Such a Secret in his breast, when these circumstances are considered.
I blessed my good fortune for giving me a few more opportunities of conversing with my lovely Julia — Her condescending behaviour was thought on with transport — My enraptured imagination fabricated a hundred airy structures in consequence of it— — this exclamation frequently passed my lips: If she loves me but well
enough to give up more Splendid offers, and be Satisfied with an humble two thousand a year, how Supremely blessed shall I be !” In this pleasing train of thought, instead of going to audley’s, I went — to bed -- --
About the time that I thought the Duke. would be up, I repaired to Grofvenor square. As Soon as I entered the hall. free bourn met me with joy Sparkling in his eyes. “Now, my Lord, you ad like yourself— — on your amiable, noble heart! We shall all be happy yet, and no cursed Lady Henrietta prevent it. — I am Sure it will be needless to caution Lord of mond against Saying a word of the information
  6i
mation that I gave; at least, that I wa the person you received it from.”
“suspeft me not, dear Freebpurne, ’* clasping his hand, “of turning the obligation I owe you, to your disadvantage — depend upon me! — ^ — All that I fear myself in, is in never being able to convince you properly of my gratitude and affection.” We reached the duke’s apartment before he could answer. My father embraced me cordially; and I, without giving him time to Speak, thanked him for his condescending letter, nd entreated him to overlook whatever errors I committed the preceding day. He Seemed confused, and generousiy exclaimed, “You have no errors, m amiable boy — I never treated you well — repentance fills my soul. I knew not how dear you were to me till on the brink of losing you. From hence I will Subdue my faults, and be more worthy of the happi ness I possess in Such a Son.” Again he threw his arms around me, and desired the past unhappy quarrel might never recur in our future conversations. I bowed assent, and we changed the topic.
After breakfast he ordered his chariot,
purposing
$4 MAS(^UERADES; or,,
purposing to pay Some visits, and then attend the house. “Where do you dine, Harry V “Your Grace forgets that I am engaged to you.’* He Smiled. “1 am glad you remember it; but I fear you will have no one to meet you.” J paid him the common compliment, that I dejtred no other company than his. As I went with him out he assced, if he Should Jet me down? I thanked and refused him. At parting he told me, / must oblige him sofar as to go with him in the evening to pay a viftt; adding, “I will not deceive you — ’tis to a lady.’^ I started“ “I cannot make you marry her, Harry, if you are determined against it; — but I think there will be no vtry great matter in gratifying me sofar as just to accompany me on a common visit.” - “On a
common vijit^ my Lord, I will attend you there.” He Seemed rather inclined to be agitated; but, catching himself, turned it off in a jest. Saying, “cjpon miyfaith you are afraid to trust yourself with women! I suspedt that you have found them too fond of you hitherto.” He got into his carriage and drove off, and I proceeded to the spot of earth that I most venerate — Portman
Square.
  65
\
Square. I felt less pleasure than usual when I rapped at Lady pemberton’s door, as I went to excuse myself from meeting her in the evening at Ranelagh.
I found the two Lady herbert’s waiting for Lady Percival and Miss Edgcumb, who were to accompany them in a walk in Kensington Gardens. On my entrance, a deep blush diffused itself over Lady julia’s cheeks. — My timid soul (where she is concerned) Suggested it Sprang from anger at the liberty I had taken the night before — She was reserved to me — Lady Almeria expressed concern that I was not to be of their party, and alked “what could hinder it ?” Her Sister told her, I must think her very curious! “Why should Lady Julia be So unjust ?” “It is natural for your Lordship
to draw that conclusion from the freedom of my sister’s question.” I begged her pardon, and answered Lady Almeria, that I was indispensably obliged to attend my father on a visit. The conversation turned on music. I Spoke of Lady louisa sydney’s performance with the praises it deserves her friend’s eyes beamed with pleasure, and she again Smiled on me; but, recolledling
herself
66 MAS(^UERADES; or,
herself Suddenly, drew up her pretty mouth, and resumed her gravity. ladyalmeriapro posed Spending the time they had to wait - for the ladies in the music room: my Iweet Julia assented, and thither we repaired. I will not expatiate upon the execution of these two charming girls — you have heard them, - and are a competent judge of music. I could not prevail on Lady Julia to sing: her Sister favoured me at the first entreaty; yet I hear mia cariffi -- ma is not inferior to the oblimnjs; Almeria
td O
in that excellent accomplishment — Superior I do not believe it possible for her to be. Lady Almeria went up to her closet to bring me a Song that she adrnired much, which Sir John Benyon had that morning given her. I Seized the moment of her absence to entreat to know the cause of Lady julia’s ferioufness. She blushed. “If, Madam, I unfortunately incurred your displeasure by the liberty I presumed to take last night, I shall be the most miserable of men; yet Suffer me to Say in my vindication, that, at the moment I yielded to the temptation of Saluting your hand, I meant nothing but the highest resped to you. — i
Perhaps,
f
  67
Perhaps, were you Sensible of the situation of my heart at the instant, instead of being thought to merit your displeasure, which I cannot endure, I should meet with compassion from the most benevolent soul that ever inhabited a human form.” Her confusion encreased. “You meant not to offend, you Say, my Lord.” “No, Madam — Heaven is my witness — Your anger would be the greatest torment that could
be inssidted on me; — a man who” -- -- -- -- -- -- -
“Well, my Lord, there is an end of it — I own I thought you too free — for the future you will be less So.” “And do you promise cordially to forgive me ?” “Certainly.”
“Nay I it must be Sealed by a permission of the very adt for which I have been condemned, or I shall think you still continue offended.” And I carried her hand (no cursed glove to intercept my happiness) to my lips. She blushed a deeper red than ever, hastily withdrew her hand, but. Smiling, called me “a strange creature !” -- Whata critical situation was I in! Had not Lady Almeria at that moment entered, I should have made a full avowal
68 MAS Q_U ERADES; OR,
of my passion, which I have reason to hope would not have been disgustful to her.
Soon after, the ladies came in, and by their invitation I accompanied them to the garoens. Lady Jul ia’s Spirits returned, and her manner towards me was all condescension. -- -- Montague, if I do not flatter
myself, I perceive a dawning tenderness; — yet, what an arrogant wretch perhaps I am, in giving way to the delightful conjecture!! — I can Say is -- If I am indeed
So Superlatively blessed — if Lady Julia does bestow on me a favourable distiric tion' — I ask no more of fate; — let it dis pofe of me as it will; — and, tho’loaded with every calamity that human nature can Support, 1 would not exchange conditions with an Emperor.
I returned to St. james’s Square just time enough to dress, and be with my father by his hour of dining. He had brought Budenall home with him. Belfielde and Montague were there before me; So instead of a dull tete a tete^ as he taught me to expect, we passed an agreeable day.
When they left us we stepped into my visavis,

  65
Vis, and drove to Mrs. aubrey’s : she, as well as her niece, were in expetstation of us I am Sure.
I endeavoured to be polite, but very distant to Lady Henrietta. The conversation was general: we went over all the chit-chat that is worn threadbare by So much use. The aunt directed her discourse entirely to the Duke, leaving me to entertain Lady Henrietta, who, to Say the truth, gave me So much encouragement, as, were I inclined that way, would have made me very happy. It is a delicate Subject: we get upon, when we venture to arraign a lady’s conduct— — I will whisper to you — and you alone, that her advances were very plain, — — There appeared not the least of that Sweet modest diffidence in her behaviour which is woman’s most captivating recommendation; and which is So resplendent in every .turn, in every look of my divine julia’s — And what gave the finishing stroke to my prejudice against Lady Henrietta, was a Sort of contented air she assumed, as much as to Say, “I am Sure of you; you must either marry me, or become indigent.” Indelicate, hateful creature! — how
rejoiced
I
4
70 MAS CUE R A D E S; or,
rejoiced I am, that I hesitated not to declare my Sentiments of her to my father! — Amongst many other questions ridiculous enough, she ashed, If I was not very fond of dancing? “No, ” I answered;; Seldom found amusement in it.” She was surprised forjhe always observed that I danced at every public place, which could hardly be the cafe, unless 1 liked it. “When one can obtain, my Lady, the happiness of an almeria’s, or a julia’s hand, it makes a ^reat difference : then a diversion, which is rather unpleasant than the reverse to me, becomes delightful — and a whole night with Such a partner appears but a short hour.” - — “What, you are an admirer of the i.a dy herbert’s, my Lord 1” “I am indeed
• — England must glory in producing Such women. Does not your Ladyship admire
them V- -- -- - “think them very well — but
Surely not So exquijttely fascinating as you and a few more of your Sex suppose them, — It would be better if Lady Julia did not laugh So wide to show her teeth : it diverts me, when I See her, I confess.” “Is that all you can lay to her charge Happyjulia! — But, Lady Henrietta, were you of our sex,
you
  71
you would not fail to experience the effects of Such beauty as the three Sisters possess, particularly the two youngest. Ladies cannot be as good judges of female charms as we are.’* We were interrupted by Sophia Nevill and Her father’s appearance. I rejoiced at the relief, and changed my seat to one nearer the fair visitor. After Spending Some minutes in rallery on a trifling jest that had passed between her and Sir James Westbrook, I ashed her Jhe was not at Ranelagh f and Said, the sight of her in such a dull Jet as I was found in was as great a happiness to me as it was unexpected. I forget what answer she made, but she gave me the most penetrating look I ever beheld; and shortly after exclaimed, “Surely, my Lord, you will never more be angry at our mentioning Lady Henrietta as your future” — “What do you mean, dear Lady Sophia!” “Nay, this is too palpable a dishniulation! — you cannot throw a veil over my eyes, though you made us deaf to reports; — but me thinks so much Secrecy on the occasion is paying a bad compliment to your adora hie /” and she laughed heartily. How devilishly
t
72 M ASQ^UERADES; or,
vilishly vexed I was at my awkward situation! Lady Sophia, turning to the ladies, (whose curious eyes Seemed to wonder at and not much relish our Speaking apart,) joined in their conversation, and left me to brood over my ressedtions, which were not the most agreeable in the world. I thought my father would never have quitted the theme he had got upon (politics) with the Duke of Northington (whom by the bye he hates heartily); but, when my patience was entirely exhausted, he at last made his bow, and I with rapture left a house I Solemnly vowed not to enter again Soon.
The Duke took it into his head to look in at the new farce at Drury-lane. I was obliged to attend him, and, after Setting him down at home, I went to Ranelagh. It was past one o’clock when I got there. In vain did I Search for Lady pemberton’s party. At last I met Seymour, who told me he had jujt that minute put Ijady Almeria into her coach; but that I should find Lady Mortimer and miss Edgcumb waiting for the former’s carriage in the outward room. I flew to the place, and related to the
laughing Caroline my disappointment. She
Said,
  73
Said, 7 deserved it, for not giving up all other engagements to make one in so cheerful a group as theirs was.
“And have you passed a very agreeable' evening
“Oh, exceedingly So! — pleasure danced in every eye but Lord seymour’s, ” who at the instant joined us. — “I would advise you, my Lord, ” in a half whisper, loud enough for him to hear, “never to be in love — you cannot think how it Spoils a
young man! -- -- -- What a lively agreeable
was this, till he received a hurt from coral lips and black eyes! — now, he is so melancholy — I have not patience with him. Do pray give him Some remedy for his disease;; — travelling makes the heart callous! — Does it, my Lord ?”
Seymour caught hold of one hand, I of the other. — “Stop, ” cried he; “pity, but do
not ridicule me; -- -- -1 am very unfortunate.

“No, indeed you are not, ” she replied:
a man of your person, understanding, and degagee manner, to give himself up thus, because a capricious girl is blind to merit that would engage the hearts of a
vol. II E thousand
74
thousand of our other young women, not inferior to her in beauty or sense!! — my Lord !’*
Mortimer and Budenall returning, the Ladies got up. I led Lady Mortimer out, and whispered in her ear, “I understand your Satire; you have discovered that I love;
■ — but if the amiable object is equally in sensible to all, what will become of me V “Travel again, my Lord — good night!” — “Cruel Lady Mortimer!” and she got into the coach.
I had no further inducement to stay at Ranelagh, and agreed to Sup with Budenall and Seymour at jenkins’s club.
I called yesterday in Portman square, but was not admitted. Pemberton will be married in a few days, I am told.
I expect to See you very shortly now in town. — Ycu will judge this letter to be more than Sufficiently long, if I add no more,
than that I am,
I
Faithfully yours,
V ^
Osmond,
  75
^ ^ '
Lady Louisa Sydney, '
Portman~squaret
YOU will condemn me for not answer
>
your letter Sooner — I condemn myself for it — but my candour shall claim your forgiveness, and you are too humane
to refuse it. -- That letter, my friend —
what truths has it revealed to me 1 — It should have been acknowledged long ago, but for a backwardness I felt to confess a weakness which you have discovered. — Yes, louisa, I love : -- unfortunately as my ' last attachment turned out, I have dared to give place to another in my bosom -- -- Le
nox’s name is no longer prohibited your utterance “talk of him — represent his Sufferings to me; — bring back to my recollection, with all its force, the time when I was on the brink of being united to him by indissoluble bands. — Paint his agonies at quitting mefor ever — my own distress at being obliged to inssid those Sorrows which
E 2. 1 could
^6 MAS CLU ERADES; or,
I could not relieve. -- -- -- Ah, no! —.
Speak not, write not of him : — I must not be unjust -- -- what I now endure, convinces
me that I never loved him; — and to my better genius I am thankful, who Snatched me from an alliance on which my Soul looks back with horror. Again I say write not of Lenox — but let a better sub jedl guide your pen; and, if you wish to gratify my heart. Suffer the name of of mond to appear in every Sentence of your letter. Blame me not, Loiiifa; -- if it is my fate to adore one whom I never shall be entitled to call mine, 1 stand in need of the Sympathising sigh of friendship to con foie me. To be a frequent witness to So accomplished a person; to listen to Such amiable Sentiments; to be daily informed of Some relplendent trait in So exalted a character; to observe a thousand unspeakable tender attentions in his manner to me— —
else could happen? -- Yes, louisa, I See
my misery in its fullest extent; — I See that I ardently love Lord osmond, and -- that he is destined for another.
^
  77
And yet I Surely received marks of a predl lecstion from the Marquis, that might easily have been supposed to originate from a more Substantial cause than mere gallantry— —! constantly distinguished by him — his address Spoke the language of passion — the Softest passion in the world. Several times has he Seemed ready to pronounce, “I love you to distraction, Julia! but, from an apparent timidity, the expression has died away upon his tongue beforeshe could give it Sufficient utterance to reach my ear. Is it possible that my vanity could have So far missed my senses as only to have fup posed this! — I fear it did.
Many nights ago we were at the fef tino — Lord Ofmond appeared dejected — he was indisposed. He never left my side, but his conversation was quite general. Undoubtedly Some happy foreigner is in possession of his heart— — his distinction of me proceeds from a ssight resemblance I, bear her f — or, perhaps, as I am of a graver turn than either of my sisters, or Sophia Nevill, and sitter to attend to a person of a melancholy difposition, he may prefer my conversation to theirs,
E 3 V But
78 M ASQ.UERAD E S; OR,
But this I know, that, until that evening, I never discovered the gloom on my lord’s countenance, which struck you So immediately on your first meeting. Once he exclaimed, with warmth and inadvertency, “There is Surely no torment equal to that of loving passionately and without hope!” — — My God! can osmond love without hope! — I looked at him involuntarily : Surprise must have been in my countenance — dismay and horror were in my heart. -- His hands I Saw were clasped; tears stood in his eyes. He caught my looks — and recovered himself. What amazed me most was, that, as he led me to my chair, he was agitated, and in a tremor. — — We were obliged to stop near the door for a minute, from the numerous crowd that Surrounded us; he slipped my glove almost off my hand, and kissed my arm with fervour : at the Same moment exclaimed,
“Heaven preserve the loveliest of its works! and inspire my Julia with cornpas flon for the most ardent and unfortunate of lovers! Pardon the liberty I have taken. — Oh, Madam! how thankful should I be, were this instant to be the last of my existence S’
  7^
ence !” As he ended, he put me into the chair and disappeared. — — I looked for him with impatience whilst there was a poshbi lity of my feeing him — he was not to be Seen — then burst into tears, and was overwhelmed with a grief equal to his, from whatever cause it Sprang. The terror I was in all night is not to be told — I felt as if 1 was not to behold Lord osmond any more— — God! what a time I passed! The distress of my Soul must have been
9
discovered, had I not complained the next morning of Suffering from a headache— — ^ judge what a joyful transition there was in my bosom from grief to happiness, when, as I vras sitting with Almeria, in expedlation of Lady Percival and miss Edgcumb, (who had engaged us to v/alk with them,) I heard Lord osmond announced. I felt my cheeks glow as he entered; 1 hardly knew how to behave. — As anxiety fled, resemment took its place for the liberty he had taken the preceding night; and I held it incumbent on me to let him see that I was displeased.
He came to apologise for not meeting us at Ranelagh. An indispensable engage
E 4 - Kinent
So MAS(5^UERADES; or,
ment presented it. We agreed to go into the concert room, and while away the minutes we waited for the ladies, at the harpsichord. — I fear that I appeared perverse and disobliging in refusing to sing; but indeed, louisa, I dared not trust my voice, wdiich I apprehended would too plainly reveal the stuttering emotions of my heart. What an admirable proficient in music is my Lord! Every touch of his finger produces harmony itself.
My Sister left us for a few minutes, and Lord osmond entreated me to pardon the freedom he had used the night before, which, it was evident, he Said, had drawn on him my displeasure — He offered Some excuses — but, to Say the truth, I was So confused as to be incapable of paying much attention to them.
It certainly would have been ridiculous to have made a Serious matter of a circumstance So trifling, that, once apologised for, became of no further consequence. — He accompanied us to Kensington Gardens; and never appeared more agreeable or in better Spirits. Strange contrast to what he was a few hours before! — We have Seen Lord osmond
  fi
mond frequently since; — have made many parties with him, and he has been each time more charming. This evening he is to Sup in Portman square, with his friend Mr. Montague, and Several others, — Adieu for the p re Sent!’
* i?; it? ^ ^ »
I
^ ^ *
Wednesday Morning,
And now, dear louisa, I am indeed inexpressibly wretched !- — credulous — arrogant fool that I was, to Suffer an idea of Lord qsmond’s giving rne a preference to make its way to my imagination! — Good God, how amazed at myself I am! — No, my friend — it is to Lady Henrietta he sighs in private! -- his inattention to her in public is the effect: of artifice — I am the deluded creature with whom he trifles before a crowd — whose happiness he wishes to make a Sacrifice to his vanity — Perhaps he perceives that he Succeeds to his most Sanguine hopes -- exults with his Henrietta at his triumph, and laughs at my weakness -- -- -- -- -
Cruel -- ungenerous Olshond i
E 5
9
Sz MAS(^U ERADE S; or.
As Sophia and I were sitting together on a Sofa, Lord osmond came to us, and desired to divide us. — He was uncommonly vivacious — She inquired, in a very Sarcastic manner. Where Lady Henrietta was? He threw down his eyes and blushed. “What is the meaning, my Lord, that you take So little notice of her in company i— — you never Saw any one play the lover better than Lord osmond does!” “I
dare Say his Lordship acquits himself well in every character.” “He does indeed most particularly well in that line. I had an instance of it, more than a fortnight ago, at Mrs. aubrey’s. My father and I paid that lady a visit rather mal d propos one night: as we entered the room, I perceived Lord osmond Seated at a distant part of it next his Cara^ to whom, no doubt, he had been Saying ten thousand fine things; — but, on Seeing us, he left his place, and approached me with no little confusion in his looks; and the first Speech he made was to inquire why I was not at Ranelagh with Lady Pemherton and her family F” “Dear Lady Sophia, how can you carry your raillery So far I Lady Henrietta is the most
in
4
WHAT NO U WI L L 8j
insupportable of” -- -- “Hush! my Lord,
you niay remember I told you, that I hoped you would no longer deny your attachment to her after that night. — Upon ray word, Julia, what I tell you is a fact— — should never have mentioned this circumstance to my Lord Ofmond; or jested at all with him upon the topic; had he not taken Such unwearied and unnecessary pains to convince us there was nothing in a report So common in every mouth. — But why make this senigma of it, my Lord? — ^ The Duke of westmorland’s frequent and familiar whispcrs with Mrs. Aubrey irs public — the attention you pay her niece— — homey — all declare that we shall Soon offer our congratulations to Henrietta Marchioness of osmond. — Surely, as I reminded you that night, you pay an ill compliment to your mistress in using So much fecresy! — She is well entitled to your adoration, amiable — accomplished — talkative — very rich — not handsome indeed, but what then !: You know
It is not a Set of features, or complexion,
the
Tincture of a Ikin” -
£ 6 i do
#
84
I do believe you will be the envy of our British youths.” My sister Caroline joined us. “For heaven’s Sake, my Lord, what have these girls been Saying to embarrass you So much ?’* My cousin was beginning to repeat what had passed, when I, hurt at the ungenerous osmond’s confusion, prevented her: “Stop, my Sophia, — you are always delicate and good; — do
not deviate” - “I have told you my
reason, Julia; Lord osmond deserves not to be Spared : — my friendship for his future wife leads me to condemn his conduct to her, in So much ambiguity., Lady Mortimer, Send Julia to comfort Lord Seymour, — or one of her many lovyers now in the room; - and 1 will repeat the whole to you.”
“Go, Julia — Sir James, my sister has a party to propose to you, for the exhibition tomorrow.” Westbrook took my hand, and endeavoured to draw me away. “Be quiet. Sir James! — I will not leave my place, if it is to give an opportunity for infiicling a momentary distrcss on anyone" " — Lord, why do you not Silence them? One retort to the person who has shown you
So
%
  85
V
So little mercy, will, in an instant, make her dumb.” “Thank you, Julia !” cried Sophia, and walked off. “Now, my Lord, that I have rid you of one tormentor, I will leave you to manage the other — and I joined Sophia, who was looking over al meria’s cards. Lord osmond and my sister had a long conversation : what their topic was I am ignorant. My mother and the Duke are busied about this approaching marriage; — they were in close conference together most part of the evening before Supper. Sophia went to cards at another table from almeria’s; and I had no other amusement, than fixing my eyes alternately on njy knotting, and on Lord Olshond and my Sister: — Several times I caught them looking at me with attention; complacency and Smiles adorned Ladyr mortimer’s really handsome face, and the fire of her eyes yielded to the Soft beam of compashon. What could they have been Speaking of!
My brother came home but just time enough to meet us going down to the eating room. An engagement, that he could not put off, had carried him abroad.
Our
86 MAS Q, U ER AD E S; or;
1
Our company did nor fepit Te lili three o’clock this morning; — nost of them thought the time deighifully Spent — I confess 1 war not of tnc number — thorns were planted in my breast, and 1 longed with impatience for the hour, when, reclined on my pillow, J might give vent to my sighs and tears, without causing suspidon or anxiety in any bosom.
So far, my louisa, all is well. I have not been imprudent in giving, to Lord osmond much encouragement — though more than ever i bestowed on any man in my life. At first I feared he was no stranger to my partiality towards him; — but, ail things calmly considered, 1 find it impossible he should have ever made a discovery so flattering to him, — So degrading to me.. — I am to thank Providence for opening my e5’es in time, — that 1 might be discreet enough to hinder the world from diving into this Secret,, which it concerns my pride to keep inviolable from all but you. -- Vet, Oh my
louisa! whilit I Stand unimpeached in the opinion of this world; — a world I despife beyond everything; — how — in what manner shall I conceal from mjy/e// the agonies
of
  87 of my Soul? — When Lord osmond has
paid his vows at the altar to another, and put it out of my power (without deeming it criminal) to love him as I now do; — where am I to find consolation? — To meet Henrietta, the wife of a man who commands every wish of my heart; — to behold him paying her stridb attention, authorised by duty to do So 1 — Agonising re
fiedlions I -- -- why do ye haunt me! -- -- -- -- -
My tears blot my paper; — pardon this weakness! —
ifi * iff ^ * iff
0
From hence, I give up every flattering prospedl — each gay hope; — those that I once formed, — involuntarily formed. Seem to me reversed : — ali the happiness that awaited me has ^
CC -- -- dissolv’d, and, like
The baseless fabric of a vision, left Not a wreck behind T
f
Ah, my God! — how unfortunate I arn? • — but I should not munnur: — if I recall
to
0
8b MAS (UE R A D E S j o r,
to my remembrance all that has passed within these sive or six months, I must find that I have much reason to lay the blame of my present uneasiness to my own imprudence. No one else can I in justice condemn. Lord osmond never professed himself my lover; — I was warned, from every voice, that he came over, as the destined husband of Lady Henrietta : — he was So universally regarded in that light, that his compliments excited no jealousy in the breast of Lord Seymour; his constantly dancing with me did not make Lord Budenall change colour, or become peevish; his particular notice drew on me no reproaches from the Count: — how plain a demonstration that they were Sure of his engagement 1 — Yet I, blinded by his vaguc' denials of tiie fact— — ready to believe what I too ardently wished might be true, gave up my reason to an infatuated credulity, which has for ever destroyed my peace. His flattering distindtion gratified my vanity; — and I forgot that he was just arrived from a court, where a man impresses favourable Sentiments on all, by the most fimihed gallantry he can display. He
could
  Sg
could not then of a Sudden throw aside a character that custom had rendered So familiar to him, — and which, no doubt, had made him the idol of a Set of women entirely devoted to coquetry. What dismal effects has it produced on an artless, un suspedling heart! Certainly he deemed his assiduities nothing but what were becoming un gal ant homme who meant no Serious consequences should accrue to himself from them; — and I, poor silly girl 1 ought to have regarded them in the proper point of view. — 1 will not See Lord osmond : — ' it shall be my study to avoid him : I will go no more into public; — when he comes to the house, I will frame excuses to keep my apartments. — How ridiculous! — Oh, Heaven! — shall error always lead me by the hand! — Who will not form fulpicions from Such an alteration } — Who can fail of discovering the right cause 1 — Yes, yes! — I must behold him; — but it shall be with So much caution, — 1 will afford him So few opportunities of conversing with me particularly that he shall have reason to think, were it his fate to change the object of his love, and, instead of kneeling at
Lady
90 M AS Q.UERADE S; or.
Lady henrietta’s feet, prostrate himself and sigh at mine, I would discard him without hesitation, and recommend to him to Seek an humbler mistress. My haughty soul tells me, that I owe Such behaviour to my Sentiments and education. — This pride may be arrogant to many, who would throw re fiedlions on the Scanty provision my father thought proper to allow me. — Illiberal creatures! — It is true, I have not the twentieth part of Lady henrietta’s fortune; — but that consideration does not lower me in the leash I despise all who plume themselves on a quantity of shining metal, which industry can as Soon put the mechanic in possession of, as places, pensions, or tin selled honours can the peer. You know me enough to be assured, that 1 have never once regretted that it was my father’s pleasure to circumscribe the portions of his daughters: I knew his reason, and applauded it.
“Never, ” would he siiy — I was too young when we lost him, to remember him; — but my mother has often repeated his Sentiment to us — never will 1 make my girls fortunes objects for the other Sex
to

to court them. With beauty they will at trads, — their merit must Secure conquests,
• — and their birth will be an incentive for their connexion being Sought after by men of rank: therefore, by giving them a genteel competency, and no more, I leave them a better chance for happiness; since the men who marry them — must marry them from love alone.” — Mylord Pemberton carried this notion So far, as to make my brother liable (by drawing and Signing instruments of writing, proper for the purpose, and depositing them in the hands of the ld C*'*^***’^'*^) to the forfeiture of two thirds of his fortune, if he added a shilling more to the sum he allotted us. — In his last moments he informed my mother and Lord Herbert of the disposition of his will. — They remonstrated — entreated of him to recall what they termed an injustice to his girls: — it was in vain! — my father was absolute;; for the sirst time regarded them with sternness, and injided, that his mandate Should be obeyed; and he not dijturbed in his dying hour. They
were silent. -- -- In a few minutes after he
inquired for us; -- -- -- we wer brought to
him. -- -- -1 cannot dwell upon the Scene
— he
V
92 MAS (LL E R a D E S; o r,
- — — he died, and left a wife to regret
the fondest husband;; -- -- -- to
weep for the tenderest parent; — and Servants, to lament the kindest master in the world. — This irreparable loss was occasioned by the working out of a ball, which had entered Some where in my lord’s chest, at an engagement in the last war. — We will leave this melancholy part of the subje(5t.
If you should arraign my father for that one circumstance of not doing more for us; — turn back to the motive which actuated him, and he will stand acquitted in your opinion. — You will rejoice with me at the interference of Providence, by considering, that, had it been otherwise, how much more miserable would have been my fate. Lord Pemberton, from his immensc possessions, and quantity of ready money, might have left his three daughters sixty thousand pounds apiece (it was expected that he would do So). Such a Sum would have been a great object; for even an avaricious
young man. -- -- -- Perhaps Lord
osmond might have Sacrificed a few thousands, and given up Lady Henrietta to a greater gratification of his fancy! — Perhaps,
from
% N
WHAT YO U WI L L gj
from his notice of me, - — I should have been the person he chose to offer his hand to it would have been accepted without hesitation; — nor would a suspicion, that, had I less money, I could not have been his choice, corrode my breast:. My poverty is the touchstone — it proves him unworthy of my attachment; — yet, unhappy as that attachment makes me, this ressedlion brings comfort with it. I fear he is very consigned in his Sentiments. With the expectation of a fortune of thirty thousand pounds a year,
. to think himself obliged to accumulate it, by marrying merely from lucrative views! — Unworthy osmond!
Almeria Said last night, “I am Sure, Julia, the Marquis loves you; but will not declare it, because you are destitute of money equal to his desires.” — How I glory in my situation! — Do you not perceive the good effects that Spring from my dear father’s judicious foresight? — Indeed, louisa, I do not wish to be richer than I am; — my most ambitious wants are Satisfied, and I have it in my power to relieve in a moderate degree those of others. What more can I desire?
In
94 MAS Q_U ERADES; or.
In the mood I am, I think, were I to see my Lord Qfmond, I should regard him with contempthis invading me with compliments, I would hold to be officious arrogance; — any particular distindion must be deemed insolent presumption; — his fixing his eyes on me with the tenderness he always assumes, would be construed into incorrigible Samiliarity. — Ah, louisa! what is become of your Julia! — Is this unhappy passion to alter her disposition? The Duke of Northington for ever tells me, that my greatest merit with him is gentleness. He will tell me So no more! — Were he to behold what I have written, he would blush as much for his niece, as she does for herself. As a punishment for a fault my heart already disclaims, --! will expose it to you. — But ohjlouisa! -- pity and forgive me! With that Supplication 1 conclude; first hoping you are at this moment in the enjoyment of Such rest as my pillow no longer affords me,
^ *
* * ^ * sit *
^ ^ ^ ^ *
friiaji^
t
  95
Friday Morning,
I am Sure you will rejoice at being told, what I am just made acquainted with, that next tuesday is the day fixed on for my brother’s wedding: may it be ever held an auspicious one by the happy pair!
Fi-om St. george’s church, (my uncle will admit of no Special licence, though Lord Pemberton is almost ready to murmur at his refusal, J the bride and bridegroom, Lady Pemberton, the Duke, al meria, and Sir James Westbrook, go down to my brother’s Seat in Hertfordshire. Westbrook whispered me, that he would he hest f leased not to be of the party., which he fore r saw would be stupid enough; and that he had some thoughts of being indtfpofed on luep day. I declared I had a mind to inform them how much obliged to him they were. — He turned it off in a jest, but I believe he was a good deal in earnest at first. The mortimer’s cannot leave town, and have entreated my mother to allow me to stay with them during the fortnight they will be absent; — my mother, all goodness, has
consented. -- -! shall not be missed from the
party,
N.
^6 MASQ, ueradesj or,.
party, and it is a great gratification to me to be lest for a while with my Sweet amiable Caroline, whose worth you know as well as I do.
Lady Pemberton Send to desire I will attend her to pay Some visits. — Adieu, my ever dearest -- my much loved louisa! — In thy orisons fail not to Supplicate the pity
of Heaven for the unhappy
\
Julia Herbert.
/
>>
. *
♦
5
/
  97
/
To Sir Charles Montague.
'St. yamefs Square,
Y heaven, Montague, I am undone!
^ — curse on my presumption, that led me to hope I Saw a dawning partiality in the eyes of Lady Julia! — curse on my vanity, that Subjected me to her Scorn! — and ten thousand curses on the day that brought me to the sight of So unparagon’d — and So insensible a beauty! — Oh, for breath to vent a million more of curscs! Had you been witncss to her treatment of me for the past week, — you must have condemned her haughty conducf; — you must have hated -- -- whom— — Herbert
! — Ah! no — you could not have a voided admiring — nay, adoring her as Ido.
Whence comes it that she is thus superlatively lovely — thus amiable. — thus Sensible — and thus cruel — Is it possible that she is a stranger to the. Softest of passions — ■ Indeed, angel as she is, she Seems fornr.ed ' for love. And does a person, Seen but to captivate, imbibe none of the tender im
Voll F pitshcns
cjs
pressions she inspires? — 1 cannot believe it. Yes she loves — certainly she loves! —
'but of this I am Sure, that it is not one of the many declared lovers who daily throng
around her, -- -1 am apt to think my as
fiduities must have made Some way > to her heart, were it not prepossessed in favour of a happier man! — Heaven and earth! who can he be — Ha! Montague, have I not heard, that Ladyjulia was once engaged to a gentleman abroad? — Too Surely I have; ■ — but my deluded Soul would never Suffer me to pay any attention to a report So repugnant to my inclination. Now the shocking truth strikes on my imagination; — on my Soul, to him her affections are devoted, and my doom of wretchedness is Sealed. — May furies blast him 1 — may destrudlion involve him — and make him feel pangs as keen — as those I at this moment endure! I must sty directly to Lady Mortimer, and know more of the matter. I am So agitated with contending passions, I am not myself— — lovely — infatuated Julia! • — Oh Charles! — —
Um
1 am
  99
I am just come from dover street, more composed than when I left my pen. — From Lady mortimer’s lips I am assured that Mr. S enox V as rejected by the most incomparable of women for an indelicacy of behaviour which totally dilgusted her. — The whole affair, she tells me, you are acquainted with. IS there was room in my breast for further admiratfon of Lady Julia, her conduct: on the occasion would excite it.
You will start at my application to Lady Mortimer for this intelligence; — but cease your wonder when 1 make known to you that she is my confident. Ten nights ago, at Lady pemberton’s, 1 was most unmercifully rallied by the young Lady Pemberton, before the charming Julia, for being met by her, in one of my ambiguous vijits (as she phrased it) at Mrs. aubrey’s. Some plaguy Demon inspired me to put on an embarrassed air, which I could nor, in Spite of my endeavours, Shake off. She would have persisted in torturing me, aided by Lady Mortimer, (who joined in the latter part of the conversation,) if the amiable Lady Julia had not inteifercd, and res: ued
F 2 me
loo
me from them. The surmises which sophia’s exaggerated anecdote must occasion in the breasts of the sisters, I knew would be prejudicial to my hopes; I therefore Seized the moment of Lady mortimer’s being Separated from the rest, to explain the whole affair to her. — I discovered to her my ardent passion for Julia; — related how, when, and where it Commenced; r informed her of my father’s views for me, and the manner in which 1 was circumstanced with him. Burr, lest I should be thought presumptuous in daring to hope for Lady julia’s hand in my present situation, I extorted a promise from her, mot to reveal, fill I authorised it, a Syllable of what 1 had uttered, excepting just as much as she thought was proper to exculpate me in her sister’s opinion from the blame that Lady pemberton’s relation must have thrown upon me; and even in that respedl I begged her to a(51: as appeared to her best for my interejv, either to Speak in my vindication if necessary, or to be silent. She listened to me with pleasure, and assured me, nothing would make her so happy as to see Lady Julia my wife; — to facilitate which Jbe would spare no pains.
After
 , loi
%
After that night Lady Julia gave me no room to flatter myself that I was in the least distinguished in her favour from the herd of gentlemen that Swell her train, and offer adulation to her charms; nay, site treated me with more distance than any of them. In company (and only then could I see her) she Seldom Spoke to me; — 1 could never lead her to her carriage; — always found her conversation addressed to another if 1 approached her ear: — and yet all this she made coincide So exactly with the strictest politeness, that I had it not in my power, were I ever So well inclined, to arraion
her civility. -- But there was a fortof
dued haughtiness throughout the whole, very perceptible to the penetrating eye of a lover.
On pemberton’s wedding, the amiable Carbline proposed to her to remain, and to Lady Pemberton to leave her in London, It was assented to. My intimacy for many years abroad with Mortimer, gives me a Sanction to be frequently in dover street: I did not, you may imagine, slacken my visits on the arrival of their beautiful guest; — but she continued to avoid me. I called
F 3 a few
102 M as(ltterades; or,
I
a few mornings ago, and found her on my entrance putting a letter in her pocketbook: : — appeared confused, and, on examining her countenance, I perceived that she had been in tears. — 1 was shocked, and checked myself from renewing her distress, and adding to her embarrassment, by inquiring the cause of her uneasiness, which was the first impulse of my soul. What felicity is his, that is worth pearly drops from those starry orbs! She instantly rang to acquaint her sister that I was below, who came down immediately with miss edg cumb; and Lady Julia Soon after retired under a pretence of writing,
lirst night at almack’s 1 asked the lovely girl to dance: thanked me, but pleaded
an engagement to the Duke of Suffolk, who is lately arrived in England, Is there a man on earth, whom I could So Soon dread as a rival? — Insinuating — amiable — hand sofne! — If indeed she looks on him within difference, - — it is beyond a doubt that she has bestowed her heart already. She had Scarcely Spoken, when he appeared before her, dazzling in his figure, — Still more captivating in his address. His eyes paid her
the
  103
the homage that is the tribute of a stricken heart, and due to So enchanting a creature.
-- -- He gazed on her with rapture; — he
Spoke to her in the voice of love: — she answered him with the thrilling tone of a Syren. — I could have called him out, — and was ready to dispute Such a prize with him; — butreason for once exerted her dominion over me. They stood up. “Heavens! what a divine couple! ” reechoed from every part of the room : — they were Surrounded by a crowd of admirers, who thought they could never See enough of them.
“Now, ” Said I to Lady Mortimer, I am lost !” “Not quite she replied. ‘‘ Be not So diffident. fvhd.s afraid V “Ah, Madam !” “Indeed your apprehensions are ridiculous; — take my.word for it, Julia is not So easily caught: — any ocher woman, I willallow, might give you causeto tremble.” ‘‘ I have no right to hope anything from her; — stranger as she is to my passion, what may I not fear ?” “Well, if you are resolved to be uneasy, I cannot help it; — but. Surely, I should know the girl’s disposition.”
F 4 I hovered
V
104 mas CLUE R ad E S; or,
I hovered near the envied Suffolk and his bewitching partner; — I listened to them, and heard him make absolute love toj^ady Julia : she answered him with the coolest reserve; checked his ecstasy, — and restored a momentary peace to my bosom. I came home Satisfied that Suffolk was not the man whom she at that time preferred; — but altogether as miserable at the idea of Some person being the barrier to his and my success, that I little suspefied. .Dady Julia is thus attached, I am persuaded, though her Sister does not believe it. — — It cannot
be to Lenox -- -- -- -- 1 would Sacrifice
more than I can mention, to know who the blessed fellow is! Lady Julia did not appear this morning whilst 1 was in dover sttreet : — tormenting girl! — I could almost rail at her! -- Would she but afford me a quarter' of an hour of her conversation, 1 should no longer hesitate to reveal to her the situation of my heart, since to know the worst is Some degree of ease.” And I cannot be more wretched than 1 am, unle ss 1 were to
see her in the arms ofanother. ^ -- -- insupportable
thought! — It makes me mad! -- -- -- --
Every ray of hope is baffled, as Soon, as
formed
  105
formed, by her shunning me So unaccountably. This very night, I will deposit the Same trust in mortimer’s breast that I have already done in his wife’s: he will advise me how to adl, and possibly find an opportunity of indulging me with a conference with the loveliest of women.
On Saturday I shall hope to see you: ifi the meanwhile, I am, much yours,
4.
p
s.
Osmond.
/
I
V
\
w
F 5 To
\
.0*
♦
%
io M A S du E R A D E S; 0 R,
Lo Lady Louisa syonev,
Dover street,
The agitation of my mind receives
no alloy, my best louisa, by concealing from every breast but yours thecircum*
stance which causes it. -- -- 1 wear a placid
countenance, — I go into public, — I affect a gaiety foreign to my heart; all accumulate to render the Suppreshon of my grief more poignantand when I am alone, and at liberty to ressedt on my wretched infatuation, — the inundation of distress that pours from the recesses of my Soul, So long choke ed up, overwhelm, and almost dest&oy me.
Is it not dreadful to be necessitated to use dissimulation? — — Is it not a trial to, be for ever in the sight of the beloved object
who is the origin of it? -- -- an object that
I ought to shun, — and would, -- could I pursue my inclinations.
Oh merciful Heaven I sure, I am the weakest of creatures, to continue my attachment to a man So unworthy of it! -- -- -- --
_ .... ^ w
jhq^
., 1^
 07
A
How much reason has Lady Henrietta to dread a connexion with Lord osinond, who can act So falsely to her, when within a few weeks of their marriage I Had you been a witness, my louisa, to his behaviour
to me ever since the fatal -- -- ah, my misguided
pen! -- -- -- fortunate that
Sophia So openly discovered the duplicity of his carriage, -- you would have lamented the fate of his future bride, and trembled for
my danger -- -- -1 cannot, I dare not recur to
past Scenes; — to describe the last will be necessary, — and, as it was the most essential one, will be Sufficient.
1 am just returned from Ranelagh; -- -- --
Lord Mortimer, his wise, and myself, took miss Edgcumb up, about eight o’clock, in our way thither. — We had made but two turns about the Rotunda, when Lord of mond and Sir John Benyon came in, and joined us. I perceived that the too charming Henry Sought for an occasion to walk next to me, which I avoided, by seeming accidentally to get in between my sister and miss Edgcumb; and I continued in that Situation till we procured a box to take tea in. Sir John gave his hand to Lady ^
E 6 Mortimer,
I
\
*
io M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
Mortimer, on entering, and placed himself next to her; Lord osmond presented his to me, and divided tis; my brother led miss Edgcumb, and took his Seat between her and me. -- ' — Whether the mortimer’s did it through intention, or whether chance directed it, I know not; — but they kept at a distance from me, and engaged the attention, one of Sir John, the other of miss Edgcumb, So effedlually, that Lord osmond had full opportunity to attach his conversation to me without confcraint; a circumstance which I had studiousiy avoided for many days. I was both provoked — and pleased. Good God, — how captivating he appeared! -- -- -- -- -- -- He fixed his
eyes on me attentively for Some, minutes; then, throwing them down with a diffident air. Spoke as follows:
“Whence comes it. Lady Julia, that I have for this age been treated with So much cruelty? 1 cannot but imagine that Some part of my conduct has drawn on me the displeasure of the most adorable of her Sexwhat agonies does it excite in my breast! — You are above caprice, — and, I am convinced, have cause for the change
of
  109
of behaviour I So unfortunately experience, ...But as you are jush -- I am Sure,
Madam, you will be merciful; — and, when I entreat to be informed of my fault, you will not withhold it longer from my knowledge. -- -- -- For god’s Sake acquaint me
in what I have been So miserable as to offend 1”
“You apiaze me, my Lord! — My behaviour must indeed have been reprehensible, if it taught your Lordship to suppose
me offended. -- -- 1 have no right to arraign
you of any fault; — and you jest, when you tell me of cruelty, -- when you call on me
to be merciful. -- -- 1 beg, my Lord, you
will not think of amusing your moments thus, at my expense.”
“Nay, — this is too much! Can
it be amusing. Madam, to one who feels more than he can express, — to describe pangs hardly to be born, the consequence of your
unjiift displeasure I -- for, since you will,
not account ^ for it, -1 must be allowed to term it unjust. You little know the fidelity, the ardour of that heart you hold in So much contempt. — Believe me, when I Swear by all that is Sacred, that it is devoted
110 M AS clue RAD ES; or,
voted to you by the strongest ties of love. • “You only — hear me. Lady Julia, ” — “I will not hear you. Lord Osinond; — you mistake, — Sadly mistake the object you
throw away So many pains upon. -- 1 am
not accustomed, my Lord, to receive the adulation, or listen to the vows, of a man contracted to another. — I take it to be as great an insuit to offer them, So circumstanced, to any but the woman you mean to call yours, as if you were lawfully her husband, and to adl that part.”
“Contrafied to another I — By heaven, Madam, I am as free from engagements
with any” — -- -- -- “You have often Said
So, my Lord; — the truth you best know yourself— —; — let me insist that you address me no farther on this topic: — there is no end to be answered by it; — and it must inevitably hurt you in my opinion. May you have every happiness I wish you, whether married, or unconnedted! — Your friendship will give me pleasure.”
“I See, Lady Julia, that you have fixed my unhappy doom: — but, after all mypror testations that my hand is absolutely free,. — that there is not a woman in the world I
/ love
I
N.
  nr
love besides yourself, — may I not be credited? — My father indeed wishes” — “No
more, my Lord, I beg! -- an explanation
is unnecessary — — If you are engaged, Sure
there is no crime in it!..nor in your
choosing to conceal it, as long as you do not deceive any - one into an error that may make them unhappy by your ambiguity. — Be persuaded that it is a matter in which I have no curiositylady Henrietta is a girl of worth; — she is Spoken of exceedingly well; and, if you marry her, your choice will be applauded. — I desire to remain ignorant of your situation refpe<5t ing her; —! am by no means interested in it, further than to wish your felicity complete !”
“Too plainly. Madam, do you convince me of your contempt! — So plainly am I made acquainted with your indifference about what concerns me! — Yet, re je61; ed, " despised as I am, -1 must presume
to implore one. favour of you think it not impertinentand Oh! for pity’s sake, exert your humanity, and grant it through mere compassion!”
“What is it, my Lord ?”
You
4
%
m2
“You must condescend to promise first, — that it shall not be refused : — as a man of honour I Swear, if you will repose in me the generous confidence I alk, no ill consequences
shall accrue from it. -- To a
despairing wretch. Madam, — abandoned to deitrudlion, afford the Small relief I beg. • -- Asa friend, it must be So, I implore
it; — it is but to answer faithfully a single question.”
“I will, my Lord, comply with the entreaty of a friend: what have you ro demand
“On your honour, you will be sincere.”
“Sincerity is my charadteristic : — depend upon it.”
“Ah divine Julia! — before I make the awful interrogatory, — be prepared not to call me insolent. Is not your heart engaged to Some happier man .?”
Your question is indeed a strange, and rather an out of the way onebut my word is passed. No, upon my honour, my Lord; — the man does not exist to whose merit I am more sensible, — or whom I feel more for, than I do for you. — — Still, you remember what I have Said: if you agash repeat
this
  113
\
this subjc(5t to me, I will never forgive its ’ Great God! — what a destiny is mine! — Can no consideration plead in that (to all but me) gentle bosorn? — Your heart at your own difposal, — why may not I
offer myself a candidate for it? -- Are
Budenall, Seymour, and a hundred others,
under the same restridlion? -- They love
not with the ardour, the constancy that I do, ^
■ ■ ..-1 have undergone a probation of three
years; — absent from you almost the whole time; — your image never left me: — the first moment my ravished eyes beheld you, decided you the arbitress of my fate; — absolutely unknown to me, I ceased not to idolise the most charming woman in the universe my unwearied assiduity to discover you, — the fervency with which” -- -- -
“Now, my Lord, you Speak in mysteries far above my comprehension, and it is
time to have done with the topic. -- Mr.
Montague, ” who just then entered the box, “shall 1 give you Some tea ?”
The conversation became general whilst we were Seated; — my Lord osmond, indeed, did not join in it; — he looked shocked, — agitated, — and as unhappy as — I felt. Can men be really Such dissemblers, my
louisa!
II M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
louisa! — Oh! wherefore should this too charming creature take Such trouble to
wound my peace! -- -- -- Whether or no he
loves Henrietta, is what I cannot determine. The world Says he is to marry her
very shortly; -- my brother’s wife Saw
enough to convince her, that it is his intention to do So; — and should I not ad: dishonourably and ridiculousiy to allow of his addresses.'’ — The question answers itself.
I should be blessed far beyond the limits of - a mortal, was the fascinating Henry destitute of title and fortune, and in that situation to choose me the partner of his heart. To be banished forever to the deserts of Lybia, or to any other desolatc place, with Such ahushand, could be no punishment, nor excite the least horror in my breast— — he will never — ah! never be mine; — and I have made up my mind to endure wretchedness.
Immediately as we quitted the box, I missed Lord Ofmond, and Saw him no more. I leave you to judge how well I relished/the Scene of amusement I was engaged in after his departure. Lord Mortimer, I believe, guessed that Something made me
uneasy; for he alked me Several times, why
I
  115
I looked dejefled, and was so serious?? have rather an unfortunate countenance at discovering the emotions of my heart, as my brother says; though I have of late taught
it a little to dissemble. it is full time to
take Some rest; so adieu, my louisa.
* * * * * *
VI

'^^ *******
Fuefday Afternoon.
This racketting life is not calculated to make me very healthy : — I am actually more indifposed than ever I remember to have been in my life; but, as Imogen says,
“So sick I am not, yet I am not well.
But not So citizen a wanton, as
t0 Seem to die, ere sick: ’’ — ^^
therefore 1 shall not make Caroline tin easy by complaining: — indeed I know not what to complain of, - and should be puzzled for an answer, if alked where my disorder lay. We are to remain peaceably at home till tomorrow evening; a longer
Spell
/
4
ii  .
Spell of rest than I have had for Some time. But is it not astonishing, that 1 should be So much disturbed by the Same Saiigue that Lady Mortimer goes through without feeling — My constitution is by no means more delicate than hers: — her peace of mind receives no wounds; -- it is always free from agitation, and Sne has better Spirits to Support the rota of dishpation she enters into with Such avidity. Alas, my louisa! why is it not my case The eternal anxiety I labour under, unnerves me, and renders me incapable of enduring corporal inconveniences : — even at this moment what tortures wring my heart, at not having Seen ' or heard of Lord gsmond since last night! — Foolish — inconsistent, fond girl! — would to Heaven thou hadst never Seen him!
^ # * # # Tuesday Nine dclock,
How intolerably weak! — But am I for ever to entertain you with the imbecility of
my heart- -- -- is in vain to direct my
pen to any other Subject at present: I am immediately under the defpotism of folly
and
  Try
and error: — — Lord osmond is below; and my sister has Sent Mournies to inform me of it— — go down; — my knees tremble — Ah, louisa! pity the most oppressed bosom in the world!
% ^ ^ ^
^ ^
Thursday Morning.
I did not chule to play last night at Lady percivai’s assembly : after my sister was Seated at cards. Mils Edgcumb and I went into the room where the company entered, and placed ourselves near the door, that we might see them come in; Lord osmond followed us. After Some time Mrs Aubrey and her niece were announced. I did not look at my Lord, from motives of delicacy. They curtsied to us in passing; — he nightly bowed, and continued Speaking to me of Venice. I was at liberty to observe henrietta’s countenance, as she did not remove for half an hour to any great distance from us. — Her eyes were constantly on her too sickle Henry : at last she followed her aunt to another apartment
very
i
%
ii mas(^ueradesj or,
very Soon after Lord osmond left us, and
disappeared. -- -- -- Good heaven! — how I
siuffered at the idea of his then addressing her in a language he is So thoroughly a master of, — and which she may listen to,
and answer him in without a fault! -- -- -
I had not a doubt but he pursued her to atone for the little notice he had taken of her when she was in our view. The pen of a Cicero could not convey to you the pain these ideas excited in my breast; but I acquired deceit enough for a while to Seem composed. I wonder where Lord osmond is gone, Julia 1” “Are you uneasy,
my dear, about Lord osmond? “Poh! net I indeed.’’ — “Then, my good Emily, I may venture to remind you that Lady Elenrietta Marchmont is in one of those rooms; — and now do you wonder ?” “Oh! no, I had forgot.” Her ready coincidence with my conje<5lure, that they were together, — gave me a new pang. So liable am 1 to the most painful of all Sensibilities! The Duke of Suffolk took the Seat that had been just vacated by a more irresistible object: he made me many complaints of tbs codnefi with which / his paf
fton'i
t.
  119
fton; begged I would not be deaf to his pro -- fejfions^ or think them injincere. He ended not here, but my attention did; — for I was ignorant (though he had my ear) of everything else he Said, So engaged was I in looking for the marquis’s return, and fancying, at a distance, every man I Saw of his height, with a coloured coat Similar to the one he wore, to be him. — The illusion of my Senses ran to an extreme indeed, when, a amongst the many my erring eyes raised to a resemblance of him, appeared Some very awkward figures, that, as they drew near, shocked me for my comparison. The hand somest man there, or I believe in Europe, thought like Lord osmond, must be flattered. I was at last drawn from my reverie, (if it may be called one,) by the a larm I received in hearing the Duke beg my permission to offer proposals to my mother and Lord Pemberton : — the thing upon earth I most dreaded, from a conviction that I should not be allowed by either of them to refuse Such a man. A chilliness came over me; -- he looked at me with tenderness, and impatient for my an fwcr. for a few minutes I could make him
none;
%
t
120
none; my teeth chattered, — I shuddered — At last 1 cried, “For god’s Sake — if your Grace has the Sentiments of humanity you
are proclaimed to poffess if, my Lord,
you regard the unhappy object— — eyes grew dim! — I could only utter, I am very
ill — where is Caroline? my Sister!” —
and 1 fainted on miss edgcumb’s shoulder. I was restored by volatiles; but what was my confusion at feeing Such a crowd around me, the Duke standing on one side, bending over my chair, and Lord osmond before me, with both my hands in his. I withdrew them instantly, and whispered Caroline to let us depart On looking up, I Saw Lady Henrietta regarding me with Scrutiny, and laughing heartily with her aunt. How inhuman she appeared! “Mind her not, my love, ” cried miss Edgcumb, who was equally shocked at her mirth. “The mere effect of envy! — 111 as you are at this moment, she would give worlds
r ^
to wear your form, and exchange places with you, ” “Truth by heaven!” exclaimed a gentleman who was near, and whom I am unacquainted with. Lady Henrietta turned the colour of Scarlet; her features
  lai
tures Swelled with passion. She advanced towards miss Edgcumb, and was about to make her Some reply, when her aunt Spoke low, and led her off. — What a wife for osmond! — “A cursed fool!” cried the Puke, and offered his hand to lead me to the carriage, which one of the Servants pronounced ready: at the Same instant Lord osmond presented his. — I was distressed which to accept, and about to obey the impulse of my inclination, when I re colledted, that, if I did So, I should probably give my rival Some further uneasi ness, and doubted not but she was chagrined Sufficiently at her lover’s assiduity about me a few minutes before. I therefore Suffered the Duke to be my escort; in consequence of which, I observed Several angry looks flash upon him from my Lord ofmond’s eyes. He followed me to the stairs, and, as I stopped to give Lady Mortimer the whispered, “Ah, Lady
Julia! how miserable have I been! — I did not think So much tyranny dwelled in your Ibui!” He waited not for my answer, but folded his arms, and returned to
the apartment I had quitted j and proba
ypl. IJ G bly
122
bly joined his indelicate mistress in laughing at an accident, that by her behaviour she must have supposed absolute affeclation. His duplicity of conduct draws on him my contempt— — I could say my aversion! — I have forbidden him to address me on a certain Subject— — positive terms forbidden it, on pain of my lasting displeasure- -- am convinced, from every authority,
that he is to become Soon the hus band of Lady Henrietta. — I have mentioned this before, — but I am still further assured of it; — and notwithstanding, — when he is absent I am wretched' in the highest extreme. — At the Sound of a carriage stop ing at the door, my heart palpitates: — if he does not appear, I am cruelly disappointed; if he enters, my Spirits sink, and I whsh him gone; — I fly the rooin, and fancy I should regain my former quiet, was I never to see him more.
r
* * * * » ^
Lady Mortimer was miserable at my indisposition, — and was urgent to Send for a physician. — I, who never was ill enough
to
«
%
  123
to be in the hands of one, became alarmed at the mention; — and entreated she would' at least wait till morning, and, in cafe I was not quite well, promised to comply then with her desire. When Lord Mortimer (who had been at boodle’s) came home, and heard of my unlucky fainting, he Seemed terrified, and imputed it to the right cause (though I would not allow it, lest Caroline should reproach herself, as being instrumental to it). He Said, he was convinced I Suffered from going out so much, and dancing so incessantly. My Sister answered, she was afraid, he spoke jufily, and that we muji Pe more domefic for feme days. I cat! assure you this resolution of hers does not difplease me; — though I am perfectly well at present.
I received a letter yesterday from my mother; — they are all joy and happiness in Hertfordshire. On tuesday the whole party are to be in London. My brother and his wife are to be Lady pemberton’s guests in Portman Square, as their'house in grafton street is not quite ready for their reception. At the end of ten days we
all go down to Lord mortimer’s at Wind
G 2 for
^ -
124 M A S CLUE R A D E S; or,
for for two months : — there is to be every sort of amusement instituted there, to entertain us, plays, masses, balls, concerts, cc. See. Then we are to ramble about, first to my brother’s in Hertfordshire, next to my uncle’s in Kent, and I suppose finish our Summer at my mother’s in Hampshire. I dare answer that we shall be So happy as to have you and Sir Charles with us in a short time after our residence at Windsor. Heaven grant it! — I did hope we should embrace in London first; — but you keep Montague So long dangling after you as a lover, that you have crushed the prospects I had raised. — I am Summoned below, This impertinent indisposition brings many who call themselves my friends, to inquire after me. observe that denomination is confined entirely to the male Sex; — my own are contented with the etiquette of sending to know how I do. Lady Henrietta has not forgotten that piece of cere" money, 1 assure you. — What a burlesque to keep up Such a mere appearance!
% * ’tft * * m
— V
Sunday
  125
. I
4
Sunday Noon.
You think me to blame, dear louisa, in not mentioning how Emily Edgcumb bore my brother’s marriage. — Why, well — very well: her good Sense operated properly on the occasion. I believe the bare idea of yielding him to another, was at first worse than death; — but by degrees she reconciled herscls to her fate, knowing that inevitable evils must be Submitted to: — and, as reason never refuses its aid when sincerely invoked, it has So far ashsted her, that she Sees and talks of Pemberton and Sophia with composure and esteem. What an example for me! — Why cannot I follow it? — 1 have Some reason to hope, that in a little while Sir James westbrook’s assiduity will make him, what my brother was to her, — very dear— — now, mour nies
“A gentleman begs to see your Ladyship.”
“A gentleman legs to see me Who is this gentleman ?”.
y Sir Charles Montague.”
G 3 Sir
126 mas(^ueradesj OR,
‘‘ Sir Charles Montague I — I am impatient to See him !”
^ *
* ^ ^ ^ ^ *
I
Yes indeed I am delighted at this long wished for pleasure; yet I could almost, reproach you for not making him the bearer of a letter : — but I recohedt; — the moments prior to your parting were of too much importance to have been devoted out of his presence— — no longer blame you. He tells me that he left you well. .For my Sake, louisa, expedite his and your happiness, and let me partake of felicity in the Secondary instance, by thinking that you enjoy it in the fullest extent.
Sir Charles is to meet his friend here at dinner. I must repair to my toilette — not with any design against believe me: and, having made this a tolerable., or rather
intolerable long letter, conclude myself
%
V
Your ever faithful
♦
Julia Herbert;
»
N. B.
  127
N. B. A letter, in answer to this, from Lady louisa Sydney, is omitted as unnecessary; and another also from Lady Julia Herbert, before site left London, for the Same reason.
/
* /
sco Sir Charles Montague,
St. Jameses Square.
I Regret incessantly, my dear Montague, your Sudden departure from town, and the melancholy event that called you from it. A heart excellent as yours must sustain greater grief at the imminent danger of your worthy uncle, than any joy one of our libertine young men of fashion would feel on their near possession of So noble a fortune as you will inherit by the calamity that threatens you. To be abruptly Summoned to attend him on So avv^ful and unexpected an occasion, was doubly shocking! This day’s post will bring me a letter from you, I trust, to say that he is out of danger.
G 4 The
i
128
The latter end of next week, I go down by invitation to mortimer’s for a fortnight or three weeks. The herbert’s, you know, are there; — I think they left London the day before you quitted it. I am too Sensibly affected with your present affliction to bend my thoughts on any other Subject, whilst addressing you. To tell you they are always occupied by your present distress, would insincere, — there is one, and only
one, wo sh ares them with you; but I Sympathise in your Sorrow as much as man can do. — It is too painful a subject to detain my pen longer on, since, if the worst I dread has happened to my Lord Beaumont, a melancholy letter can afford you no consolation; and if (as I sincerely hope) he is better, it will only carry you back to the dreadful ressedtions you experienced, when you imagined him near his last hour. Adieu then, dear Charles 1 and believe me, in every situation.
Your faithful and affectionate
Osmond.
To
what you will; it
Tip Lady Louisa Sydnet.
ffn* _
r ^
mndfok '
WE arrived here this day Seshnight, '
and are preparing for the reception of much company; — much indeed will it take to fill this noble mansion, not an apartment of which is to be unoccupied in a few days. The recollection of the blessed moments I passed here not many months ago, endears the place to me : — not a room — not a walk — not a ride in or about it, is there, that has not witnessed Some happy Scene, which are all brought back to “my my mind’s eye” with accumulated charms, from being now beyond my reach. Ah, Ofmond! origin of all my pleasure and misery! — but for you, the shades of Windsor would never have been So delightsulv — but for you, I could now wander through' them with as much gaiety of heart as I was wont to feel in traversing the woods of
G 5 Hamp
%
iso,
V _
Hampshire or Hertford! — alike indifferent to all places.
When I parted from him, Louisa, I behaved with fortitude; — 1 evaded the opportunities he sought of Speaking to me : — but when he bid us adieu — when I Saw the door shut him out, — and heard the carriage roll off, — convinced that I had Seen him for the last time an unmarried man, — judge— — my louisa! judge what I endured! I flew to my closet; — I was almost delirious; — I applied to him, who alone could give me power to Support So Severe a trial — On my knees I preferred the request; — and it was granted. I returned to the
O
drawing-room composed : — 1 played a rubber of whist; it attradfed my attention out of myjelf: I was not once accused by my partner of heedlessnefs to the game; a reproof I never before failed of incurring. Was there not Some Supernatural ashstance that sheltered me from the form of of mond at the time — Ah!! to heaven at this moment, it would lend its benevolent aid, — and, pouring in the balm of insensibility to my Soul,, Save me from
the
I '
'i- -- -
'
 ; 131
the torturing remembrance of the blessed days I have known, which “are gone, northeast > — ah never! to return.” Sweet oblivion! to you I bend; — you I implore to relieve a poor Suffering wretch! — Put forth your lenient h^nd, and Scatter on the most faithful votary you ever heard utter a wish for. your dominion — rhfe power of forgetfulness! Alas, my lduisa! how 1 wander from my Subject!! — tranquillity I now invoke, continued the whole evening, I cannot say it was a pleasant one, (though a heaven to what I Suffered prior to its visit,) for I felt like a person in a state of stupe fadlion: 1 mechanically did everything that I was bid.; — listened, and answered properly; — but had no fenses that Seemed to originate from myjelf. I believed a poniard through my heart would have given
me no pain -- -- -- i got above Sufferings of
any kind.
The next morning, — my Situation dwindled to mere mortality with the day my agonies returned, — and brought in the strongest light to view all my miserics, — About eleven o’clock we left town.
G 6 To
k
$
132
"S.
To complete the measure of my woes, -- the Duke of Suffolk has proposed to my mother and Lord Pemberton for my hand: — they are as strenuous for the match as I expected. Lady Pemberton came into my closet two mornings ago, and acquainted.
me with his generous offers. 1 implored
my mother to let me hear no more of him. — vshe looked grave : “What, Julia!” — “I beseech you. Madam, to oblige me — On my knees I beg the Duke may be instantly informed that I can never love him, — that he must never again address me on”
-- -- “Julia, you astonish me inexpressibly I
— “If my dear mother consults the happi ness of her child; — if. Madam, I deserve the indulgence 1 always experience from you — you will immediately dismiss my Lord duke’s pretensions.” — I do consult my julia’s happiness V — she is every vvay deserving of my indulgence; - — but indeed I cannot So hastily impart your present Sentiments to his Grace, - — Sentiments that must be given up, after allowing your reason to ponder on the advantages that will attend Such an alliance: — nay, I will be
be
  133
candid; — I am in Some doubt whether I can ever prevail on myself to Suffer your re fusal of his addresses, unless you allege to me a Sufficient motive why I should do So; as I shall be criminal in my own opinion, if I permit you to trifle away your felicity thus unaccountably. — r~you are Satisfied, Julia, that I am not of the number who imagine happiness centres in a high title, or monstrous fortune; I proved that when 1 consented to Mr. lenox’s overtures, who, at the death of his father, will possess Scarcely four thousand a year : his worth was my principal objet, and made me zealous for the match. You never loved him enough, that his image should steel your heart against a Second attachment. In a few days after the affair was broken off, you were as gay as ever; — I Saw no traces of anxiety concealed under your behaviour. — Lord Seymour proposed;; —
was instantly rejected- -- Budenall
shared the Same fate he Count de Bel
fielde, a man of the first distindion at the court of -- -- -- -, besought your hand; —
you would not hear his name mentioned 5
yovi
134
— you were indulged in all your caprice and not a question ashed, why one of these men (each of them a desirable object) should not call you his. — Of late, you appear distressed; you have no gout for
amusements— — sty as much as poshble Society; — you conceal your grief. — Well!
• — I will not press to know what it is; this
is foreign to my Subject. the Duke of
Sustblk, of all the young men I ever beheld, or was acquainted with, ” -- (ah, Louisa!! not my mother make a mental reservation of one? Undoubtedly!) — “is certainly most calculated for you. Is he not amiable, polite, and Sensible? answer me, Julia.” “I believe, my Lady, he is all that you Say: — burr, alas! I am unable to do justice to his merit; — though I admire, I cannot love the Duke.” “I have no fear of your remaining long insensible to, So agreeable a person, if you will but consent to let him plead for himself. My God, what fault can you offer against Suffolk!
< — Beware, Julia, of Suffering perverseness to make its way into your disposition. — Oblige me lb far as to allow the Duke to
pay
.t
t
'. -
  135
;
pay us a visit at windsor.” Ah, my mother ~I perceive that I am destined to wretchedness; — but be it So, — dispose of me, Madam, as you please; — I will, at your command, become the wife of Suffolk— — oh, merciful God! — if that miserable fate awairs me, -- let me not endure.it long!” “No, Julia, you shall not complain of your mother’s forcing your inclinations! — Heaven forbid! — but promise me to behold the Duke with chearfulness— — after giving him an opportunity of attaching you to him, your disgust continues invincible, we must then adopt measures agreeable to your will. — Yet, if you can conquer your disiike, let me assure you, that nothing can afford me So niuch delight, as to see a union take place between you and him.” — My tears prevented my thanking her Ladyship, and I withdrew.
Several times during this conversation I endeavoured to Summon up courage enough to tell Lady Pemberton how unhappily and improperly my heart was already bestowed; — but even to the best of mothers I was too great a coward to give
the
•,
136
the unfortunate Secret utterance. — My brother was dess gentle on the Same topic that had So much distressed me with Lady Pemberton, than ever he was in his life. It is evident that this dreadful attachment will deprive me of the affection of all my friends. The Duke of Suffolk is expected down amongst a concourse of guests in a few days hence. Lord Ofmond is not one of them, I am convinced; — his name is Scarcely ever mentioned. — Ah, my God! I shall see him no more till he is married — louisa, withhold your Sympathy — I love you too well to desire that you should participate of my uneasiness
* # »
Evening, ^
I do not think I told you that miss Edgeumb is with usyou know not what an amiable engaging girl she is. This morning she followed me on the terrace next the river, where I was walking: she begged me to permit her to join me; I readily assented. She laid her arm within
mine
k...
/
«
 37
mine. “I believe, Julia, Something hangs upon your Spirits! — You appear more melancholy than usual— — I observed an alteration in you in London; but the cause I assigned for it was, the fatigue that must consquently ensue from the hurrying life you led for the last three or four months of your residence there. — I flattered myself, when you came into the country, and was restored to rest, you would of course be restored to vivacity.” “And So I shall, dear Emily.” “Then why do I not find at least a beginning? — It is full time for it! — I hope, dear Lady Julia, nothing has induced your thoughts to cross the Channel; — forgive me, — but I almost fear” — — — “Fear nothing of the Sort, my Sweet friend! — Mr. Lenox has no interest in my thoughts: — whole days pass by, without once bringing him back to my memory.” “Come, if you are generous, you shall treat me with confidence; — for I will reveal an affair to you, that I would hardly trust myself with the knowledge of, for a long while.” “Not with an expectation of my repaying the Secret, my amiable Emily; — I am a bankrupt, — I have no” * — “No
matter
138 M AS (LUERADES; or,
I
matter, you shall hear me — and she unfolded to me the passion for my brother, with which her gentle bosom had been oppressed for near two years; — but calling reason to her aid, it showed her the impossibility of his being hers, — and instruded her to vanquish the merciless tormentor that embittered her hours. She owned to me, that sloe felt for Sir fames Wefihrook the tendereji sentiments; volo on his firs ad dr effing her (which happened twa months cgof informed her, that he offered her a heart just weaned from a strong attachment., which would have continued during his existence, had he not combatted with his inclinations by force, -- and representing to himself that the objebf would never return it. He added, he could not so well have fd.cceeded in his attempt, had not his good fortune introduced him to an intimacy with her, which effectually accomplished the work he had undertaken : that, as a man of honour he thought this a vowal necessary, and, if she deftred it, would give up the lady^s name, but ccnfeffed he had rather (for a time) be excused doing that I admired her good fense; congratulated
myself on the near acquisition of So charm
ino"
t
  139
ing a relation *, assured her of the high opinion weall entertained of Sir james’s worth; and thanked her for the proof she had given me of her friendship. — But I did not dare to expose to her my infatuation; certainly there was illiberality of sentiment in my Silence I — I have So long “backward trod those paths I sought to shun, ” and am So habituated to at wrong, that I can only now cast a despairing sigh on every fresh error I commit.
«
*
%
Sunday Night, Eleven.
So! — every incident that can poshbly, does happen to give new perturbation to my mind. At Supper, my brother Said, he supposed that Jix weeks more would add Lord Ofmond to the liji of married men. My sister Caroline contradidted him, and declared, Jhe was very Jure, that, when oj'mond did marry, it would not be Lady Henrietta: — that it was very odd people Should run away with such a notion! — To her certain knowledge, my Lord was re/olved not to facnfice his happiness to accumulate greater riches than
hi
\
A
140
he pojfejjed. Lord Pemberton answered, thaty fmce Jhe was so poji'tive, he would not presume to dispute with her; — elfe he would aver, that the Puke of jvejlmorland told him., two days after his return from Hertfordshire., that his fon would very shortly, he ei^pefled, follow his etc ample in becoming a Bene die. He turned to me: “Julia, you had many conferences with the Marquis, and I dare believe you are informed of his intentions; if you may divulge them, tell what they are.’* “Indeed, my loro, I am ignorance itself of them; — but, if I may judge from what every one says, your lordship’s conjectures arc right; — 1 believe Lady Mortimer thinks too favourably of Lord osmond.”
“You are a wrong person to apply to in this cafe, ” cried Caroline: “you are prejudiced against the Marquis; therefore’* — — — “Prejudiced againji him V repeated my brother, “He has given us no cause -- why should she be prejudiced “Nay, 1 know not; but 1 believe she is against your whole Sex.” « lord Mortimer immediately changed the conversation, which in my heart I sincerely thanked him for. He Spoke of a Superb pavilion he had erected to Serve for a theatre, where he means to have plays enacted
as
*
#
  141
as Soon as his visitors arrive. He intends to cast parts amongst Such of them as will like the proposition; and entreated we would accompany him tomorrow to see whether we approve of the building and decorations.
When we retired for the night. Lady Mortimer followed me to my apartment; and, after giving full Scope to her vivacity on different topics for Some time, Sent Mournies out on an errand to her woman. She thus began :
“Julia, it is necessary you should know, that it is agreed you are to appear in the first play that will be represented.’* I sup posed her in jest, and humoured her. “Pray what character is allotted me?*’ “Statira.” “Very well adapted to my dilpofition! — I can have no objection - — “! no certainly; — if you had, — ■ it would direduy Subfide, when insormed who your Alexander is to be“ “tell me !** — “I do not believe I will So readily as youexpedl; — yet I pity your impatience 1 - — Well, supposel Say Budenall.**
“I will not have him ‘‘ Seymour Nor him, **
« You
• .f
\
\
• • •. •
142 MAS (U ERADES; or.
You shall not then; — but you must not be So laconic when 1 name the Soft, insinuating, charming Suffolk : — he will become the hero admirably! — Oh, how he will glory in appearing as conqueror of the world, conquered by you I — What Spirit will be Seen in his performance !”
“Cruel, — inhuman Caroline! — Were you in my Situation, should I thus Sport with your distress ?” “What, refuse to be suffolk’s Statira? — Amazing! — Well, if you are So barbarous to Northwest, — my poor friend — — the man you defpise and hate the
most in the world, -- the handsome— —
graceful -- the elegant osmond, Spite
of his bewitching address, can stand no chance of being nominated to the character.” -1 felt my face glow, — I sat down.
You reject him also, Julia, no doubt!’’ I have no intention, sister, of undertaking the parti have not abilities for it ■ and, if I had, Statira is the one of all others I would last appear in — But, was I obliged to perform it (1 Speak of a thing that can never happen), I should prefer playing with Lord osmond to either of the three you have mentioned : they have Serioussy addressed me, — and, as 1 do not mean to accept
  14j
cept of Lord Budenall, — Lord Seymour, - — or the Duke of Suffolk, it would be highly improper to give them any encouragement : — 1 look upon Lord osmond as a hiarried man, — and that makes an essential difference.”
“Then you would prefer showing the Marquis a prediledtion, my Sweet girl!” “As Lord osmond cannot be mine, sister,
the world” -- -- “And why may he siot be
yours, my dear — What obstacle can prevent it, if you but consent to his happiness “Dear Lady Mortimer, how you Speak What my brother affirmed a few hours ago is not to be doubted; — he is Soon to become the husband of Lady Henrietta: — osmond deceives you if he denies it— — Supposing, after an engagement with her, he should have levity enough to declare a passion for me, — would you not despise him for it, Caroline? — Could you think him a man of honour .?” “No certainly, if he
was engaged : — but, my dear Julia, do not entertain that idea, — depend upon it, be is as free from any ties to Henrietta, as I am at this moment bound by the most Solemn to my excellent Lord Mortimer.” “On what proof, my Caroline, do you ground
this
\
144.
V
- this assertion? She paused — “On his as furances.” “Oh, my Sister! “meps vows are womens traitors V Do not, my dear Lady Mortimer, place So unlimited a confidence in what Lord osmond Says; — he has frequently attempted to impose in the same manner on my credulity. — Believe me, from all I have heard of him, from what I have Seen, he is a compound of deceit — But what thenit concerns not you — or me, Caroline: So let us Say no more of him.’’ — Mournies returned, and my sister took her leave, as I will of you, my louisa, for the night.
* * * * * *
* * Hi %

Monday Noon.
Upon refleduon, I wish I had told Caroline what passed between the Marquis and me at Ranelagh. She looks on him in a favourable light, — and would put a less; censorious interpretation on his behaviour, than my mother. Lord Pemberton, or al meria, would do, were I to inform them of it. — I cannot bear to lower him in their
opinions j and, though I can freely condemn
him
  145
him myself, it would hurt me in the highest degree to hear any one else do So.
We have been to See Lord mortimer’s magnificent strudture; — it is really a noble building, admirably adapted for the purpose he intends it. — He has had this Scheme of amusement in view these two years past it Seems; in which time people have been constantly employed, and have now completely finished the pavilion, as they call if, ' entirely to the Satisfadrion of all who behold it. I never aim at descriptions of this sort; therefore, will only tell you, that, like the opera-house, it can be occasionally thrown into a number of beautiful apartments; — otherwise it is a very neat theatre, calculated for the advantage of the performers, and the convenience of the audience : it is Situated on one side of my lord’s park, and is about two miles from the house. Mortimer is busy in ordering and disposing of necessary furniture in the dressing rooms and greenroom: : — persons are already arrived to Superintend, and give directions about dresses, which are not to be entirely completed till each gentleman and lady fix on their characters, vol. II H and
N
r
/
146
and they can be made to fit exactly. They are now employed in preparing the following : the dress of Elizabeth, in the Earl of Warwick, for Sophia; margaret’s of Anjou for Almeria, anti warwick’s for my brother. It will be the first play represented : the next I believe is to be the Provoked Husband. Lord Mortimer will do justice to Lord Townley. We tell Caroline it Suits
him better than any that could have been
0
thought of; for he will walk in his own line: — but to render the thing complete, Ihe must certainly do Lady Townley. We Seldom gain any goodbye playing with her at her own weapons; she Soon Silenced us: -- however, she declares off the part; for though she knows she could merit great applause by performing it, yet there is, she allows, too great a similarity in her own character and that of the dissipated fine woman’s of quality, — to undertake it; and she has no inclination to be called Lady Townley for life. I am as ignorant as you are, how the other parts of each play will be filled, and must remain So, till the expected guests assemble. I am very wary. Jest they should tah me ittbut I am resolved

  147
Solved not to be a performer, unless my mother absolutely insists upon it; — and that ' I think she will not be unkind enough to do. — I See a carriage on one side the lawn;
— whose is it I wonder! -- Lord and Lady
Percivasts liveries. -- They are come, my
louisa, and I must hasten to welcome them — they are, no doubt, replete with news from London. Adieu!
* * * * m
m * iff
^. #
Monday Night, Twelve o'’clock,
The evening was insupportably hot, — and for the benefit of the air 1 strolled out: — they were all amusing themselves differently; Some playing at cards, — others in an adjoining room on musical instruments; — the rest were engaged in conversation, (for a good deal of company came to dinner,) and I, fearful of interrupting any person, retired alone. I walked into a wilderness on the South side of the park, which is a heavenly Spot the hand of Nature has been lavish to it beyond expression in her donations, and, with the assist
H 2 ance
148 M A S Q, U E R A D E S; o R,
ance of art, has rendered it perfectly a paradise: : eye is delighted; every zephyr wafts Sweets equal to those breathed in a rabia Felix; -- the melody of birds forms more enchanting harmony, than we are invited to hear, in a high arched resplendent dome, from the voices of our most capital singers. The evening was beautiful, and I continued my walk through the labyrinth upwards of two hours.
✓
“There was room for meditation even to madness, ’till the mind burst with thinking.”
J grew tired, and Seated myself in an alcove : a few obtrusive tears had strayed down my cheeks, which I was wiping away when Lord Mortimer Suddenly entered— — started, and exclaimed,
“Fla, Julia! — How is this? — Good heaven! what difeomposes you thus — - — Speak, I beseech you — So unhappy, my sister !” “No, my Lord! — Why should I? — I beg — ^^ptay take no notice of this weak— — cannot account’^ — — “Oh! — this
must
  149
must be accounted for.” He Sat by me, and took my hand.
“Inform me, my dear Julia, what occasions your distress; — impart it to the sym,, breast of friendship. — If it can be removed (and Surely it might), you shall find my assiduity unwearied to effect: it: — do not deny me your confidence.” My. tears gushed forth afresh— — could not Speak.' (
Is it the idea of your mother’s and pemberton’s urging you to marry Suffolk? — Be at rest, they will not persuade you against your inclinations. — No, you are not destined for Suffolk. — Ah, that I could impute these tears to another cause!! — Soon should I dry them !”
“What do you mean, my Lord ?” '
“You shall know; — but you must be very candid with me — no evasions to a question I first shall alk: — will you pro mise this ?”
*,
“It is but of late my sincerity has been ever doubted; — what have 1 done to be So sunk in your opinion, my Lord ?”
“No one thinks more highly of you, my Julia, than I do; — yet for reasons you
H 3 may
150 MAS(^UERADES; or,
may hold good, it is not improbable (without laying thestightest reproach on you), to suppose you might use a little reserve but in this case you must promise to banish it entirely, before you are entrusted with a Secret that concerns you.” His Sensible eyes Seemed to penetrate my thoughts; — > I imagined he looked Severely on me.
“My God! why am I to be terrified thus? — What mystery is there that needs this prelude? — My heart cannot long bear the conbidts it has of late Suffered, and still endures. — — Yes, my Lord, I will answer with truth whatever you propose to me, be the consequences what they may; — I am indifferent to them, — or what becomes of the ill-fated Julia.” He embraced me tenderly.
“You are unkind, my lister — Think you I come to alarm — or take an improper advantage of the confidence I Solicit No, Julia; — I have no motive for claiming your sincerity, but from the hope of relieving the distress which seems to overwhelm you. — If you suppose it beyond the reach of my endeavours or abilities to accomplish, — if it gives you pain to reveal the Secret
to
  151
to a very faithful bosom, — be Silent: — I will not tear it from you; — nor shall even Caroline know that I have the mortification of suspecting you to be unhappy. — Dry yours eyes: — what has already passed in this short time shall from henceforward be mentioned no more.”
Forgive me, my deaiest brother, — my best friend! — I would rather die than offend yoli: — Your goodness strikes on my Soul, and I am all acknowledgment for it, — Pardon my petulancy, and demand what questions you please— — — will be truth ic self.”
“Then tell me why you So positively refused the offer of osrnond’s heart !” “Ah,
my Lord! -- -- did you over hear the” -- -- -
‘‘ I heard not a Syllable but from himseif, the day after his declaration to you at Ranelagh; when, in agonies not to be described, he related to me the cruel return you made to his ardent professions. Never was there a couple created, since the time of our first parents. So formed for each' other as Julia Herbert and Lord osmond: — I think it wonderful that you can find one objection to him. Good heaven! how
H 4 plainly
t
j52 M A S Q, U E R AD E S; or,
plainly does it demonstrate, that erring mortals Seldom fail to dash from their lips the cup of happiness presented to them! — Where, my sister, will you again behold one to compare with the amiable Ofmond V. “Take him hut for all in allv no
where my Lord; — his equal in many great virtues, — in every charm, does not exist. — Ah! my God, am I insensible to them 1 — You, who know every Sentiment, — every movement of my heart, can best judge hovv’' much it is devoted to him! — these tears you behold, my brother, are witnesses of the interest I take in the fate of osmond; « — my life is So embittered by my unhappy attachment, that 1 look forward with impatience to the time that will rid me of the burden.”
“You shall not thus make yourself wretched. — Admitting you acfted rashly, in dismissing him inconsiderately, all may yet be well; — my Lord will again Supplicate your pity, I dare aver, and” - —
Again be rejedfed with Scorn and indignation.” —
“Why how the devil r you blow hot
^ ^ w
and
%
  153
and cold in the Same breath! — What am I to understand by all this
“I should hold it, as I did thatnightatra nelagh, the greatest insolence to address me, when he is undoubtedly the property of another. at the moment he is ordering preparations for his marriage with Lady Henrietta Marchmont, to presume to make me the ob je<st of a licentious pashon! — I cannot re ssedl on it with patience. -- His behaviour
to his real mistress, which plainly evinces his infidelity, and his desire of deceiving me, are great, but, I am convinced, the only blemishes in his character; — and where is that mortal upon earth who is perfect?? — we have all Something to be forgiven for. — miscrable as I am on his account, yet I can pity my rival; — Lord Osinond loves her not; in that cafe what a
s
situation will hers be
'“Good God, Julia, — how you injure
osmond! Make you the ohjefl of a licentious pajfton? — What an error! — Hark! — I am
called— — voice -- 1 have not
time to Say more than this, tomorrow morning early, I will entreat my wife to find an opportunity of conversing with you
H 5 alone:
/
154 M AS CLUE R ADES; or,
alone; she shall Set your doubts of my friend at rest, by informing you of what he told us both at different times concerning yolirfelf and the Lady you have just mentioned; — the manner in which he is situated. I would chuse you should receive this intelligence from her. — Farewell! be corriposed — and all will turn out to your
satissadion.” - — By this time Lord Pemberton appeared in sight: he flew to him, and turned his steps another way, to prevent his discovering the traces of the tears that I believe remained very visibly on my
countenance.
What will tomorrow produce! — Tomorrow! — This morning I mean, for it is near two o’clock. — I am lost in expectation — in doubt -- and hope.; — Adieu, my dear louisa.
^ ^ ^ * *
* ^
Ni In the few following pages Some repetitions are obliged to be made; burr, as they give a more connected detail, and
of
%
  155
of course let the reader better into the story, they may not be found tedious.
^ iff ^ * iff m
#
Monday Woon.
No more do I chant forth doleful lamentions!! — note is tuned to livelier strains! The intermediate Space between this and eight o’clock, — have been the only hours of my life worth recording;. — nay, I
never lived before I -- -- -- -- -- My louisa,
with what extasy do I tell you, that I am at liberty to listen to the impassioned Sounds of my henry’s love! — No one has so good a right to his heart, as your transported Julia! -- -- Take the matter briefly,
as related by him to Lady Mortimer ancl her excellent Lord en confidence', but first I must repeat my sister’s prelude to her information.
I cannot but condemn Mortimer, for making me rather over step the limits prescribed us by the Marquis, in revealing, without his knowledge, the following little piece of private history : — but, as my Lord has Said So much to you prefatory to
H 6 the
t
156
the discovery of a Secret; — ashe has promised to inform you what an exclamation of his alluded to; — and as he has insisted on my keeping you no longer ignorant of the subject of Some conversations Lord of mond has held with us both; I certainly cannot avoid making you acquainted with it. — And it will be as well, after all; — foq 1 suppose, if I do not tell you. Lord Mortimer will. — But I have given a proof that a vwonnan can keep a Secret; — else you would not at this moment require the knowledge of what I am about to impart.” — I could have excused her wasting So many .words, before she gave me the intelligence my heart panted for. The Substance of it ran thus :
The Duke of Westmoreland determined from the time that his Son was twelve years old to endeavour to effect a match between him and Lady Henrietta, — whose extraordinary large fortune was the chief inducement to his grace’s Seeking the connexion for the Marquis. -- -- A resolution
once taken by him, no earthly motive can corhpel or persuade him to give up; — more especially when it regards the
“lucre
u.
f
-»
  157
“Uicre of gainv He proposed the affair to Lord Davenport, who readily agreed to give his daughter to one whose veins boasted of Some of the most noble blood in the kingdom; — to one, who would in a course of years be an English Duke (a principal charm in the eyes of a late created Irish Earl); — and one who promised to be So completely perfe<5t in manners and personas Lord osmond, Everything corroborating to the wishes of the avaricious Westmoreland, he hastened his Son, at the age of eighteen, from Oxford, to send him abroad, that he might the Sooner return, and crown his father’s hopes, by consummating the desired marriage. In two years after Lord osmond’s departure, his aunt died, and left him two thousand a year, at his own dif posal, from the age of one and twenty. The Duke, perceiving that the ugliness of Henrietta increased with her years, and that she had not wit or address to compensate for it, began to fear that his Son, whom he always called a romantic boy, would not come into his plan So easily as he at first flattered himself with the expedlation of. — He thought, should the young Henry
know
s
158
know he was independent of his father, it would render the task still iiiore difficult:
-- -- he thcrtfore omitteil to inform him
of Lady Anne skestey’s bequest, and concealed it as much as possible from the v/orh. Moreover, as we are always timid and sus picious, when embarked in a wrong undertaking, the Duke was apprehensive that osmond might by Ibme n cans arrive prematurely at the information So studiousiy kept fi-om his knowledge, if Suffered to come over before it was time to celebrate the union his father's heart was Set on; wherefore, and lest he should meet with a too communicative acquaintance nearer home,
-- -- he was ordered to remain entirely,
for the four last years of his residence abroad, in Italy.
Lady Anne h id, for a great while before her death, resided at Abergavenny, for the benefit of her health— — Sar remote from all her connexions, she was (as is generally the case) Soon forgotten by them. — That it should be the consequence— — her desire; -- for, after the death of a tender and amiable husband, and a much loved sister, she grew disgusted with the world, and
kep t
 , 159
kept up no intercourse with any one. Her liberality to the Marquis was unexpected j — she had quarrelled with his father, and for that reason would not condescend ta see his Son, though the child of her lamented sister. -- In Wales she died little or
no mention was made of her; So that the Duke had every circumstance in his favour to aid hjs concealment of her last gift ta Ofmond.
The Marquis, at the end of two years after this injunction of his father’s, tired of the place, — hurt at the constraint im posed on him, and unwilling to part with his friend Sir Charles Montague, who was going for a few weeks to Paris, resolved to accompany him under a fictitious title. Both the gentlemen were introduced by letters (from an Italian Lady, who was the eonfidente of osmond’s intention) to our amiable Superieure; they visited her often. And now, louisa, let me ash, whether you remember, that one day I returned to our apartment quite enchanted w'iih a very V bandsome young Cavalier I had Seen in madame’s jaloncaroline recollects it, - — and what a fright you and she put me into
io
to, by threatening to tell the Nun Soeur teresa, who had the particular care of us, that I fallen in love; -- an expression that shocked me then, as much as it would have done her, had you repeated it to her. This circumstance never dwelled further on my mind : — nor should I the next hour have remembered the person who had excited So much admiration in my bosom for a few minutes; much less could I have suspedt ed, when I Saw Lord osmond at the mas querade, that he was the Same beautiful objefl I had beheld at Paris. Lest the silly adventure should not occur, I will assist your memory by mentioning the consequences of that meeting, V
The next day my mother was informed by the princess, that a gentleman (and she mentioned the borrowed name he went by; — a name Lady Pemberton was a stranger to) bad been urgent with her to discover who I was, and seemed much captivated with me. God knows for what! On receiving this intelligence, my mother carried Lady Mortimer and me twenty leagues into the country; and we were Separated from you for three months. Wc little
 ; 162
tie suspedted the cause; — indeed it was right to keep Such an affair from meit would have turned a young brain of not quite sixteen. — Yet I doubt whether 1 should not have hated him for being the' means of my absence from my Louisa: : — it is, I looked on it, as the first misfortune that ever happened to me — But my ill stars have pretty well accustomed me to repetitions of the Same malheur. To return, — this accounts for the words he uttered in the latter part of our conversation at Ranelagh, — words So inexplicable to me at the time; which for ever recur to my imagination. Lord Ofmond wearied thesuperieure with his inquiries, — and was at last in treated by her to drop his visitswith difficulty he prevailed on himself to go back to Italy. — — He could bear no longer to remain abroad, after Sir Charles montague’s departure, — and writ to beg his father’s permishon to come to England; which, through the interposition
of his friend, was obtained. some time
after his arrrival here, the Duke made known to him his purppse of connedt ing him to Lady Henrietta. The Marquis
/
i62 masduerades; or,
quis positively refused to think of her as a wife. — His father was violently enraged with him, and my Lord was at last obliged to quit his house, — with an intention of feeing him no more, — and, as he was ignorant of the fortune in his own power at the time, determined to Set out with a friend of his the next morning, and embark as a volunteer for America. The night after this fracas happened, was the one I gave you the particulars of, at the Festino, where I told you he Seemed much. indisposed, and, as 1 thought, behaved strangely when leading me to my chair.
At Lord osmond’s return home he received a letter from his father, apologising for his conduct in the morning;, and begging to See the injured Henry (as he acknowledged him to be) the next day. His Summons was readily obeyed; — and the Duke met my Lord with an embrace of cordiality, which immediately dishpated all unkind remembrances, and restored each to their pristine serenity.
vvestmorland engaged his Son to dinner, and to visit with him in the evening; -- • that very evening he had promised the
night
«
, WHAT YOU WI.DL. 1^3
night before, if it was in his power to attend my mother’s party to Ranelagh — He came to make her his excuses, as Soon as he parted from his father. — You know, my
i.ouisa, what followed; -- that I received
him with resentment. -- -- Oh!! I been
informed of what I now am! -- -- how different a reception! -- -- -- -- -- But no matter —
to proceed.
The place the Duke wished Lord of mond to accompany him to, was Mrs. aubrey’s. After reiterated requests of the Duke, all made with gentleness, — he con consented, - — first premising that the visit should be looked on by all parties as a mere common one of ceremony; it was the only one he determined ever to'make the Ladies. This point being fettled, they repaired to burlington street. The aunt and father Sought opportunities to leave the Marquis and Henrietta to entertain each other; — my Lord addressed her with as' much distance as it was in the power of a. man to do, who could not be absolutely impolite to any of the Sex. Mrs. Aubrey called the Duke to the lower end of the apartment, to view a beautiful commode that had been presented that morning by
Lord
i64 mas clue rad esj or,
Lord idavenport to his daughter: — whilst they were thus engaged, and the embarrassed Henry, for politeness Sake, was still sitting by Lady Henrietta, the Duke of Northington and Sophia entered the room. T heir presence was doubly welcome to osmond— — flew to a chair near Lady Pemberton \ -- his thoughts., ever wandering after the Portman square familyy prompted his question to her \ -- nor did he feel dtfconcerted at her Light from the ccnfti&us integrity of his intentions., till Jhe raided him on the suspicious appearance his p artie qu ar re made: — even then — he foresaw not the uinfortu ttate consequences that might accrue from it; • -- which, when they did really happen, almost diftrafied him : — they were the inferences drawn by Sophia from this vijit, which she imparted in his presence to me as I related to you); and it was no longer to be wondered at, that he should difeover so much confujion at finding appearances., -- looks- -- words, so totally changed from their true colours to those of the mojt fallacious hue; — yet hedould not condemn Sophia for uttering what jhe thought fasts— — he presumed to contradict her, and vindicate himself, would Jhe or I believe him ^ — No certainlyfhould naturally

  165
turally suppose the same artful deceiver who prevailed on us to be deaf to the report of his addrejfmg Lady Henrietta was again fpe -- ^ doujly employing his dissembling talentsy to gloss over so glaring a proof of his intended connefhon with the Lady.
Thus did he argue, and nearly ipoke in those words to my sister.
When we left him at liberty that evening, he unbosomed his Soul to Caroline, but desired her, in the most fervent manner, not to divulge what he had depojited in her breafi.^ without his coincidence with it \ ~lefi I Should shun asa juji punishment) the presence of one whose presumption and temerity mujl appear great., in daring to look up to me without a fortune adequate to what 1 was entitled to. He entreated her pardon for detaining her attention so long : — it was a relief to him, to make her acquainted with his situation; to receive her confolationy -- and behold her sympathy— — he muji yet lean on her indulgence, he added, and beg that Jhe would endeavour to remove the prejudices I could not but have imbibed againji him, from what I had heard Lady Sophia repeat a few hours before with so much plaujibility; — that
0oe
i66 MASCLUKRADES; or,
Jhe would ajfure me (if jhe thought it right) he was entirely free from any engagement; — .And he was satisfied that what Caroline averred,
Lmujl BELIEVE. He doubted whether
there was not a degree of madnejs in the re
quejl: -- inconjijtency and ahfurdity there
certainly were •, — feras he could entertain so little proffeft of my hand.i what purpose would it nnfwer to fet me right in my surmises F— — it was worse than the mcft malignant tortures to be for a Jingle infant lowered in the opinion of a beloved object.
Lady Mortimer encouraged him to expect much from his merit and my Sensibility; and told him^jhe was convinced that., with a man I loved., I Should think myself happier in partaking of a very small fortune than in poffejf ng millions with the poignant reflection that they were the gift of a person indifferent or hateful to me. He kissed her hand with transport. -- -- 1 well remember thot circumstance; -- it Surprised,
as much as it perplexed me to ascribe the caufe but 1 believe I never told you, nor can I now, how great was my amazement at observing the marquis’s more than usual cheerfulness at Supper; ' — the Summons
  167
mons to which put an end to their tete-a-tete.,
“I should, ” cried Lady Mortimer, “have exculpated Lord osmond, according to his desire, from the censure Lady Pemberton threw on his sincerity by the description she gave X t ieir interview at Mrs. aubrey’s,
had you given me an opening for it; — but you were reserved, Julia, — and I had no mind to be ashed, what it was to you how he behaved
Some weeks after this conversation with my sister, the Marquis Spoke to Lord Mortimer in the same strain,, with this difference, that I treated him so cruelly he was in despair;; — could not be more desperate— — 'it would free him from all obtrude ing doubts, to receive his condemnation from my lips : he therefore resolved and besought Lord Mortimer to furnish him with a few moments for the occajim) to declare his fen' ' to me,, and know the worji at once
Thus, my louisa, have I accounted for many circumstances, that, had I known before, would have Spared me many miserable hours.
My dear brother ..my admirable
Lord
i68
i.ord Mortimer! — what effusions of gratitude overwhelm my heart, for this proof of friendship! How have you relieved the distressed soul of your Julia! — My Caroline too! — my acknowledgments to both
are not to be told.^ oh, louisa! can it be
poshble ^ — Dare I credit my senses? -- Is
it reality that I am the beloved, — the only entitled female to the affections of osmondi’ — the most amiable — the loveliest of mea!
- — It is! -- it is! and lam the happiest of women.
* * * * * * *
jit * *' * » ^^ * ^? *
I
I Saw Lord Mortimer but during breakfast; — immediately after he rode out with Lord Percival and my brother, and I was obliged to attend Lady Percival, my mother, and Miss Edgcumb, in an airing, from, which as Soon as I returned, I Sat down to make you a partaker of my joy. I will now go and try to express my thanks to my Lord for the favour he has bestowed on me; — and at the same time beg him to dispatch this packet with his letters to the
post
I
  169
postoffice at windsor, after addressing it to my louisa, and embellishing it with his title. A strange medley, it is certain, you will receive : IHAVE rung the changes of grief and felicity in truth. — No matter; that the latter has entire dominion over the breast of your Julia, will amply repay you, 1 am Sure, for the “tears you have been beguiled of, *’ by the distress and anxiety which you have known to disturb hitherto the repose of.
Your ever faithful,
J. Herbert.
P. S. Lord Budenall, Mr. Montague, Sir James Westbrook, and Sir John Benyon, are expected down this evening.
vol. II I To Lady
i
lyo MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
^0 Lady Julia Herbert.
\
C A.
Sommervtlle house.
Yes, my much loved Julia! — you have
indeed “oft beguiled me of my tears.’*
How have I commiserated your sad fated
0
attachment! — What nights have I pasted in grief Surpaffing yours if possible! — Oh,, how have I wearied heaven with my prayers to extricate you from what 1 deemed the most ill placed passion that ever invaded a human breast! — nav, — I have been im pious enough to arraign its decrees, in af stiding So greatly its best work; and have been shocked to think what little encouragement human nature had to be good and virtuous, when the model of persedion, - — the most amiable of mortals, was given up a prey to anguish and misery. I own myself reprehensible beyond the power of expression, ever to have admitted Such un christian like reflections to intrude on my imagination; - — but Spare your chidings, — and be Satisfied in knowing that I have been
Susticiently
>
  171
Sufficiently punished in my own reproaches. — At the time I Suffered So much on your account, I received your last letter : — the beginning of it added to my uneasiness;; — more I read my distress encrea sed, until I came to the part dated “Monday Noon.” -- -- Jtidge of my transports at
what followed! — judge of them by your own feelings; for my pen is not equal to a description. --! congratulate you, my charming Julia, on your felicity. — Well does Lord Mortimer think, that “there never was a couple created so formed for each other as my sweet friend and her incomparable of mondp How clearly now do I understand the meaning of Sir charles’s questions and ambiguous manner, whenever you were the Subject: of ourdiscourse! — Artful creature!
^ — Had he been more candid, — perhaps his Henry at this moment would be much, happier than in all probability he is. — — What would I not give to know whether Lord osmond is to be one of your guests 1 — I cannot doubt it — Hasten to me every information : — your situation becomes critical, — and it will be impossible to be too minute in your accounts. — Yet, So engaged
I 2 as
172 M A S Q, U E R A D E Sj or,
as you are by this time, is it not unreasonable to desire it ^ — Ah, no! — my Julia is Sensible how interested I am in what concerns her, and will not repine at affording me one half hour in each day.
Sir Charles Montague is at my Lord beaumont’s, who is dangeroussy ill: he lest Jiim for one day to See me. He told me that you are handsomer than ever, but not So cheerful as you used to be, he thinks. — Was he to behold you now he would Soon revoke his opinion, I hope. I hear from him every day which is the only means he can find to make his absence Supportable. I bear it So ill, that I consented to his and my uncle’s importunity of fixing a day for our union. lasttuesday. month will be the important one. You will tell me I adopt the style of romance, if I say my heart forebodes Some disaster, -- Some unforeseen calamity. — But away, all
painsul ideas! -- my Julia is happy, and I
will not Suffer your intrusions at present.
I cannot dear girl write more; Lady Sommerville torments me with her ccnti iiual presence. -- She is grown astonishingly
fond of me within these few months;
nay
  173
nay, most unnaturally So." -- What can it
portend ^ — Nothing favourable, I fear. — This strange tenderness gives her Sufficient reason, she supposes, to invade my retirement; -- -- for without the ssightest notice
she is in my dressing-room, and hurries me to accompany her to Mrs. waulmstey’s — Ridiculous, vain woman! -- -- -- 1 have no patience -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Adieu, my best Julia.
Louisa Sydney.
P. S. I admire miss edgcumb’s character more than ever. — I am Sure 1 should not have had firmness enough to have acted as Sensibly as she has donebut the more I consider my own weakness and folly, the less right I have to name my sclf in the Same Sentence with So exalted
a girl,
I 3
\
\
\
/
174
^0 Lady Louisa svdisrey.
Windsor., Wednesday Evening.
slince my dearest louisa So justly con 1 demns the very great fault her extreme partiality led her to commita partiality that cashes you to regard my imperfections in a false light; — I will, as you desire, “Spare my chidings, ” and only entreat my amiable friend never to fall again into a like error. I deserve more — — much more, than those slight Sufferings, which my weakness magnified to Such a height as to appear insupportable; — even for the impatience 1 showed under So short a probation. But remember in future, my much loved louisa, that, when you see a worthy object labouring with astiidtion, (I am entirely out of the question,) Providence is not to be censured by shortsighted mortals for its difpensations; and the hand which “chastiseth those it most loveth here, ” will amply recompense them with exquisite and lasting happiness for what is
Scarcely
  ijs
Scarcely regarded as uneasiness by a better
world. -- -- -1 anticipate your exclamation.
“What excellent lectures a mind at ease can deliver! — Were you So moral, Julia,
when your heart wrung at distrels? -- Or
have you been contemplating Some of seneca’s leaves, to enable you to bear your turn of good fortune with philosophy and moderation ?”
God knows what “turn my fortunf^ is yet to take. — At present its prospedt is not So very brilliant as when I wrote last; — but I do not complain, — all is tolerably well.
1 am Sincerely glad that you have at last fixed Sir charles’s day; I wish to God you had done it many weeks — aye, months ago. — You would now be of the Windsor party,
which is really a numerous one. -- -- You
must indeed give me leave to laugh at your foreboded misfortunei, — Why, in the name of wonder, my Louisa, will you Seek for wretchedness So unaccountably \ — Summon your extraordinary good sense from the nap you have permitted it to take; enjoy your happiness, and, not only for theprefentp but for ever, banish all obtruding, anxious, and unnecessary fears. It would indeed be
14 strange.
176 MASCIUERA DES; or,
strange, were I to think any request of yours unreasonable; much less one that will give inch infinite pleasure as complying with tmur last must do. — I will appropriate, not hals an hour, ^ — but many half hours at different times in each day to my pen, — and be as minute as you can wish me. A Sort of bashful timidity hindered me from ashing Lady Mortimer whether Lord osmond was expelled at Windsor?? — curiosity on this head was very inferior to mine; still I could not conquer the pundilio that kept me silent, and I underwent the most
disagreeable of situations, that of suspence.

I think I told you that Sir John Benyon, Lord Budenall, Sir James Westbrook, and Mr. Montague, were expected last Monday evening. Between eight or nine o’clock, as we were all Seated in the Saloon, a rattling of carriages and galloping of horses were heard. “They are come!” exclaimed Mortimer, and ran cut to meet his friends, for whose arrival he had Seemed impatient Some hours. After Several minutes had elapsed, he returned following six gentlemen. The first that appeared was a tail elegant figure,
whose
  177
whose height and air resembled the Duke of suffolk’s. I was convinced it must be he, and my Spirits Sunk, — but were quickly revived by hearing my mother cry, “My Lord, I am rejoiced to See you !- — How does your Lordship ?” As it was dusk, and I placed at a great distance from the door at which they entered, I could not distinguish plainly the objects: : — when I observed the inimitable grace with which he addressed my mother, and heard his voice, — my Lord osmond could no longer be mistaken. — The other gentlemen were the four I mentioned, and Mr. Bishop. As the Marquis approached the place where I Sat, which he did as he made his bow to the ladies in turn, I thought 1 should have fainted — My heart throbbed, — my knees trembled, — and I could hardly stand while our visitors paid us their compliments. I was glad the lights did not appear directly— — my confusion must have been but too perceptible. My Lord took no particular notice of me; he was all vivacity. I overheard him tell Lady Mortimer,, that Jhe had much to answer for. She ashed he meant ^ ‘‘ In distreshng many hearts by
f 5 your
iys mas'q^ueradesj or,
your own and Sister's absence So Suddenly from London, ” he replied. “Suddenly! why I am Sure you knew of our intention.” “True, — but poor Fermor, Belfielde, and Conway, were quite ignorant of it, and most probably have hanged themselves by this time.” At Supper, my Lord of mond Sat opposite to me. My brother ashed him for Lady Henrietta. “She is well, ~I Saw her last Friday at Ranelagh, ” was his answer. — His eyes were fixed on me, as he Spoke. I blushed, — and he threw them down. Lord Mortimer mentioned his theatre, and intention of becoming manager of a playhouse— — all approved the Scheme; and osmond told him, he desired he would make what’use he pleased of him in assisting any of the performances: — the rest followed his example, which gratifies my good brother not a little. The next day, the gentlemen dined with Mr. Freeman, a neighbour of ours; and the Ladies were taken up in getting their parts: al meria and Sophia were particularly engaged in that province, as their play (the Earl of Warwick) will be performed tomorrow night. A miss johnson does Clifford; —
bir
  iyg
Sir James Westbrook, Edward: — the other characters will be Supported by Mr. Montague, Lord Budenall, and Sir John Benyon.
At night when the gentlemen returned, ' they were in high good-humour, and endeavoured to render themselves perfectly agreeable. They were Soon followed by the Duke of Suffolk, and Mr, Ainssey, ’ who arrived from London : and to dinner this day, came, from the same place, Mrs. and the two miss pelham’s; — the former is an absolute fine Lady, — 'her daughters two pleasing young women. — Hark! — ^ sophia calls, — I must go to her.
%
Never was man So changed in his car riage as Lord Osin on d is to me! — no Ion oro
^ O
er ashduous to engage my conversation; — • no apprehensions now of my bestowing that heart on another he once So earnestly sollicited— — convinces .me, that he can be happy, though I refused him. — Where are all his vows, - — his ardent assurances of not Surviving my indifference, So frequently re
1 6 peated
lo M A S (U ERADES; or,
peated to Lady Mortimer? — Forgotten! — * and I have the misfortune of experiencing, that the woman who depends on the constancy of a man, leans on a broken reed. — I'said, in the beginning of my letter, all was tolerably well: I observed Lord osmond’s nonchalance — but flattered myself he affeist ed it, to convince me he was piqued at my Behaviour; — that he would Soon drop it, — andin Spite of my prohibition. Seek an opportunity to address me once more on a subject I had reason to believe very near his heart. — I must confess, at the moment I formed such a hope, — 1 trembled at the idea of such a conversation, and rather a voided an occasion for it; — but was he the Same tender Olmond I left in town, he would, ncit with standing my reserve, have found a time to renew the topic. Surely, Louisa, there is no deviation from delicacy in what I write! — I was prevailing on myself to be Satisfied with his behaviour, and wait patiently the denoument of it all day; ' — and should be in the same disposition now, — but for what I am going to mention, which has convinced me my Lord has
con
/

  ii
conquered his pashon as Suddenly as he
formed it.
Sophia called to me, to desire I would accompany Lady Percival, miss Edgcumb, miss pelham’s, Almeria, and herself, to See a grotto in the hermitage. For a great while the Ladies were averse to any beaux attending them; — however, five of them declared, they zvould presume for once to disregard their commands, since they clashed so violently with their happiness, and. Snatching up their hats, went out with us. — The five gentlemen were, the Duke of Suffolk, Lord Mortimer, Lord osmond, Mr. Bishop, and Mr. Montague. As we quitted the hall. Lord osmond presented one arm to Lady Pemberton, the other to Almeria: — the Duke of Suffolk walked at my side; — but my hands were tpo well employed in carrying Bijou, and holding my hat, to follow the example of the other Ladies in leaning on their escorts. His Grace entreated me to let him take the dog; — but you may fuppose I did not consentfor many reasons. As Lord osmond followed close with my two Sisters, I overheard him Say to one, ‘‘ Hist! — you go too fast! — I believe we
must
i82
s
must keep a greater distance, or we may interrupt the lete d tete, — and that would be very cruel, you know, to both pa’^ties, — more especialiy to Suffolk.” I h.dtily turned, and beckoned to miss Edgcumb, who came to me directly — After putting her hand through my arm, I looked at my sisters and their companion, and with a "Smile thanked them aloud/ijr their conjidera tion. “I should have blessed you for it, osmond, ” cried the Duke, “had you expressed it lower.” 1 thought the Marquis Seemed angry, — he reddened, — his eyes Sparkled, — and he bit his lips. suffolk’s countenance reproached me also; but that
I little regarded. lord osmond and I
took no further notice of each other du ring our walk; — and I gave his Grace not a minute of my conversation unattended by a third person. — Is it not strange that osmond should be So zealous to furnish a professed rival with an opportunity of declaring to me the Same Sentiments 1 So lately heard
from his own lips? -- The Duke is a man
very capable of inspiring the most tender inclinations, and I observe his particular distindlion of me often makes two of my good friends look grave, yyhich I endeavour
to
WHAT YOU WI LL. isto
dispel, by convincing therrf he is not more esteemed than they are. You must know, that I mean Lords Budenall and Seymour: — Belfielde cannot be Serious; — his love, though teasing to the object, will never, I think, be prejudicial to himself. The gay, laughing Henry appears as much composed as if Suffolk was a difgusting creature, from whom he had nothing to apprehend; — or, rather, as if he took no interest in the disposalofmy hand, -- which is certainly the cafe. — — I might still hope this mode of conduct is assumed to try me, did he show a preference to any female in my sight; — but So Sar from it, - — that it is impossible to Say which Lady he is most gallant to.
When we r^urned, and were assembled in the Saloon, Lord Ofmond stepped to a Seat next me. “I must beg your forgive ness, Lady Julia, ’’ cried he, “for the unfortunate interruption I was the cause of giving your serviteur juiit now; — I was unlucky — — but my meaning good.” -- -- I
easily pardon it, my Lord; -- our conversation was not So important as to make either’* — — — Oh !- — I do not presume to inquire what it was, -- though it may be easily guessed;
ig4 M A S O.UER ADES; OR,
#
ed; -- -- nq^man can Speak to yon without
mechanically making love the Subject— — exquisite beauty inspires even the lowest of our Sex; - — and when thecaufe is considered, their arrogance should be pitied
at the time it is condemned. but I must
compensate for the mischief I have done; Suffolk comes this way he shall have my place. Sure my generosity excites your admiration! — What a pleasure I do resign! — Happy Suffolk! — Must I go. Lady Julia “As your Lordship pleases, ” replied I, rather haughtily I believe. “I will gratify your Ladyship and away he flew. The Duke did take his place, and with all the ardour imagihable painted his love, and hopes of being one day entitled to call me his. Do you think, my Louisa, I was not distressed? » — ...Indeed I was 1^ -- 1 could Scarcely restrain
my tears. osmond’s cruelty in giving me up So palpably shocked me Severely : — yet 1 deserved it. — I had no right to treat him with the little compassion he experienced from me, when his Soul Spoke to me in the bitterness of anguish. — Burr, my God! did I not at from honourable principles? — Be it as it may, he is amply revenged! — The only man with whom I could be happy,
thinks
 85
thinks me capricious, — no longer worthy of his affe<5lions, — and has for ever banished me from them : — he will never — ah, never, my t.ouisa, touch upon the grateful theme, that could allow me to convince him how erroneousty I judged a few weeks ago; — he abandons me, — and I have little, very little comfort left!
* » ^ ^ »
* * * * * iff * *
I Soon disengaged myself from the Duke, and went into the mu sic parlour with al meria. Lady Percival, and two or three gentlemen. Most of the company Surrounded the card tables. Some playing, others looking on.
“Come, dear Julia, ’* cried Lady Percival, after my sister Jiad obliged Lord bu denall with her finger and voice; “give me, Sv: eet girl, my favourite Song, out of II baciop — “I will play for you, my Lady, but I forget how to fing.” “I cannot excuse you, — be as good as you used to be. Lord Seymour — and here is Lord Mortimer too” — he just then entered — shall accompany
you
186 MA sq^ueradesj or,
you on the flute, and Mr. Montague on the violin.’’ — They took up the instruments, and I Sat down to the Pianoforte. From the time my Sister began to play, the room filled; — as Soon as I finished, I heard these words from a mouth close to my ear, “Oh, thou inimitable, lovely creature! with what rapture do 1 gaze on you, — with what ex tasy hear you! — Why do you Seek to destroy the peace of so many ?” On turning my head suddenly to See who Spoke, my lips touched Lord osmond’s; -- -- 1 blushed.
“Blessed accident! — what a reward! — Oh,
_ ^ _
my J ulia, were you less cruel” — “I beg, my Lord, you” — “Say no more, — 1 will not offend; — but you know not the heart you despise, — you have so contemptuously rejected.” He retired from my chair, and, to avoid being particular, I was obliged to continue playing and singing for sometime longer.
At Supper, — I Saw not the Marquis till then, — he again was distant to me, and cheerful with every one else.
This evening Lady Caroline Denley, Mrs. Ashley, and a profusion of beaux, arrived
  i8y
rived here. to enumerate their names
would take up too much of my time and paper.
********
♦ ♦-**-* i *
••
Thursday Afternoon.
I have been just down to welcome the Duke of Northinpton, Sir Thomas and Lady Walpole, Captain and miss Walpole, to windsor, — You know them all, my louisa, and what an acquisition they are to our agreeable Society. I have been busy most part of the day in assisting Sophia and Almeria in preparations for their appearance presently : their timidity encreases as the time draws near; — I have strove to dis sipate it, for there is no doubt but that they will acquit themselves well.
The audience each night will be a Small one; — on that condition only, the Ladies consented to play: and though riiy Lord Mortimer has been Sadly teased for tickets, — he has had the address to refuse all a above his fixed number without affronting one creature. He will not inform us how ■many are to be admitted. Every inhabitant
i88
tant of the house is regarded as a privilege edperfon to be aspedlator, but not entitled to introduce a soul into the theatre; --! in cliioe domestics, as well as their Superiors. All my lord’s tradespeople about this Seat, his tenants, their wives, grownup Sons and daughters, have leave to fill the pit and gallery, and are presented with tickets for every night that the company performs. Such as gain admittance to the boxes, are blue, — to the other parts of the house, yellow; both sorts are Sealed with mortimer’s arms, and marked with his own signature. I am told Several persons have travelled Some miles, in expectation of ridiculous
cmamufement; and hoped their trouble would have been repaid, by food for laughter
in that they would be disappointed; for our tragedians are very decent performers, to Speak, in the style of the Morning tossed. If their curiosity does not really take its rise from So illiberal a motive, I am Sorry it cannot be gratified: though I think my brother very right in Suffering no innovation on the fettled plan; that once to happen, adieu to all decorum, and regularity
I
%
  189
rity in condu(5ting the affair: — besides,, it would indeed be acting for the public.
After the play, we are to have the Rival Candidates: Almeria and Lady per cival Support the women’s characters; the men’s as follow:
Byron by my brother; — General Worry, Mr. Dacre; — Sir Harry Muff, Sir James Westbrook; and Spy, by Mr. Bishop. There is a delightful band for the orches tra from London; and you cannot imagine anything So pretty as the Scenery, or more Superb and elegant than the dresses are..
My sisters wait for miss johnson, to repair with them to the theatre, and there robe themselves in all their pageant attire. “Our Clifford of to nighv is the daughter of a very worthy clergyman, who lives two miles from hence. My mother accompanies the Ladies to their dreshng rooms, to direct them in placing their ornaments : you know what an excellent judge of dress she is. She will meet us in the box (which holds twelve people) before the play begins : Lady mortimer’s accommodates the rest of our party, that are no performers. — I am Summoned to coffee; — in an hour the
carriages
190 MAS QJJ ERADES; or,
carriages will Set off. miss johnson is
come, -.. -- ■and I see the coach driving up
to the door that is to convey them to the theatre. — Ah, poor Souls! — how I pity ye!
^ ^ % % % % ^ Thursday Nights half paji Eleven dclock.
We are this moment returned. — No, it is impossible, — I cannot attempt describing Lord mortimer’s happiness at the extraordinary success of his favourite project— — See everything managed with Such pro priety, to observe delight and admiration painted on every countenance, — to listen to the plaudits bestowed on the justly deserv ing actors and aftresses: -- he is in raptures,
^ — and it will require Some days to inure him to his present felicity, ere we can hope to find him a little composed. — To Say the truth, he has reason to plume himself on his cleverness and taste; — no performance could go off better.
My mother’s coach carried Lady perci val, Lord Oliiiond, Captain Walpole, and myself, to the theatre (I am ignorant how
the
  191
the rest were marshalled). On alighting, we delivered our tickets to two stewards, who were appointed to receive at the front door those for the boxes. We then proceeded through a long lobby to a side box, which was called for in Lady pemberton’s name, a box keeper condndting us to it; — I really thought myself at drury-lane. On entering we found miss Edgeumb, Mrs, and miss pelham’s, Lady Pemberton, the Duke of Suffolk, and Mr. Temple, already seated. We were struck with the profusion and disposition of the lights, which formed a fine coupd.ceil', — but there were twice the number of people I imagined we should meet, which accounts for Lord mortimer’s not telling us how many tickets he had given out. I he Marquis, with great adroif ness, placed himself directly behind me, and bore much resemblance in his behaviour to what Lord Osinond was in London, when we have been engaged on Similar parties. After we had been Seated ten minutes, the curtain drew up. Almeria and miss johnson appeared exceedingly confused: the latter repeated the first Speech So low, that we could hardly catch a word; — but,
by
A
I
/
192
#
by the time she had finished it, — my sister recovered herself Sufficiently to go through hers with Spirit, -- and was astonishingly great in the character; - her pronunciation very clear, ^her action just, and graceful to perfection: she worked up the passions the author meant to excite very admirably. miss johnson discarded her fright, and acquitted herself to Satisfaction. Sophia discovered no apprehension, 'and excelled in her line. Lady Pemberton and Almeria looked like angels, and had abundant homage paid them. miss johnson is genteel, but not handsome. The gentlemen performed
delightfully; -- a prettier Edward, or
handsomer Warwick, I do not believe was
ever Seen. -- -1 question whether the real
Monarch (who you know was remarkable for his charms) was So lovely as our fictitious King. Sir John Benyon, Lord bude nall, had but little opportunity of
displaying their talents, as their chara<sters were rather trifling; — however, they made the most of them, — and were graceful and easy. When Mr. Montague gave out the Provoked Husband for next Monday, I imagined the house would have fallen, it
shook
  193
shook So violently with acclamations. But how shall I express to you the excellent performance of the farce !- — or convey to you an idea of the humour with which each person entered into their part! — Clever as they all were, Mr. Bishop, in Spy, surpassed them we thought the Spirit of poor Weston was Suffered to tread the stage, with ail its human drollery, to assist Lord mortimer’s wishes. Every creature bore the marks of pleasure on their countenance during the whole representation. — On Saturday next we are to have a ball.
^ k'
Friday Mornings Two fclock,
When we were all assembled at Supper (for the Ladies were not fine enough to plead fatigue, after the exertion they had undergone, as an excuse for their not appearing at table), Lord Mortimer mentioned that Tancred and sigismunda was to be the
vojl II K third
ff
194 M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
third play; and, addressing himself to the Marquis,
“You know, osmond, I told you two days ago, that you are to personate the young Sicilian hero.” He gracefully bowed, “You did, my e.ord; and I have made Some prosiciency in my lejfon.^
He turned to my sister, “Is Lady alme ria preparing her part, to be my sigis munda ?” “Oh! no, my Lord; — I have already done my party“ “entirely I hope. — Then, Mortimer, who mwplay the heroine? — which of these Ladies.” Lord Mortimer directed his eyes to me: “Our Julia must undertake it.” “Certainly !’' cried the Duke of Suffolk. “Certainly !” echoed every voice, but my good caroline’s and osmond’s. — I wou’d not hear the proposal“ “” Said Sophia, “if my sister will not oblige us, she tacitly condemns us all who have performed.” “By no means, ” answered I : if I owned talents for the purpose— — should not hesitate to comply with the request but, destitute as I am of them. Surely my friends will not wish me to expose myself!” They paid me the compliment they could not without being
impolite
\
4
\
  195
impolite refuse to a person who expressed any diffidence of their powers. Lord Pemberton declared, it would be cruel to refuse them. The Marquis interrupted Something he was going to add, by the following inquiry : Is your sister’s disposition a ct^uel one, Pemberton? — I am inclined to believe you mistaken, if you imagine So.” “I never thought so till nowp replied my brother. But I See plainly that it is, — else she would not deny us a favour our hearts are Set on.”
“My Lords and Gentlemen[ cried Ofmond, in a ludicrous tone, and acting as he Spoke, “hence let me watjn you never to truli to appearances. — Behold this example — who would imagine cruelty could be concealed
under So fair a mash .f- -- you hear
her brother has confessed it, — and I hold his veracity too highly to entertain a doubt of it.” ' -- - “Though you bestow your ridicule on me, ” Said I to Lord osmond in a low voice, “I will readily forgive, aye thank you for if, since it changes a Subject that pains me exceedingly.” “Not so, my Lady; — it was far from my intention — Think you I am not the most anxious of any for your
K 2 performing?
i
/
196 MAS U ERADES; or,
«
performing- -- -- I am! — I may
then, ^ under the Semblance of fiction, be permitted to utter the real Sentiments I feel, which I am So positively forbidden to breathe in earnest : -- nay, under the same difguise, I shall have a return of passion expressed
-- -- How delicious will the Sound
be! — Would to heaven the illusion could last for ever!”
“We will Say no more of the play, my
Lord; — and then” -- -- -- -- - “What then?”
demanded he eagerly. Louisa, my delicacy was alarmed — I could not for my life have completed the Sentence my heart first dictated, and which an unlucley — I must call it unlucky pause, prevented me from speaking!! to have Said, “And then you shall not find me So tyrannical as you think me.” — But to utter it, was impossible. —
What then?” repeated he still more impatiently, with the most imploring eyes I ever beheld, yet illumined by joy, fixed on my face.
“i shall think myself much obliged to you.” — Oh Louisa!! — a reproachful look he gave me !-! — He raised his voice, and, turning from me, exclaimed,
“Oh,
%
  197
Oh, your Ladyship must pardon me, for disobeying you. — Lord Mortimer — Lord Pemberton — do you let this matter rest? — Must not Lady Julia perform sigis munda? I was again overwhelmed with entreaties: — athsc, lord Budenall declared,, he lojked upon rny coytfenting as a thing of course; and proposed that it Should be the fourth pray injiead of the thirds as 1 might not be prepared so soon. This was readily agreed to, and the Subject concluded by Lady Caroline denley’s and my uncle’s telling me they were determined Ifbould comply, and there was no more to be [aid.
I make myself easy about the matter, be cause I know Lady Mortimer will be So indulgent as to undertake the part for me. Sleep weighs down my eyelids— — nuist drop my pen.
^' *******
* * * ^ * * ^
As Soon as I was drestthis morning, I went into my mothers apartment to make my inquiries after her health'; she Snatched the
K 3 opportunity
w
198 M AS QUE R A D E S; or,
opportunity of Speaking warmly in the Duke of suffolk’s favour, — I started at the ungrateful theme, and begged her to expatiate no further on it. ah! with what
a stern look did she regard your poor Julia! — I did not think Lady Pemberton could look So sternly.
“Romantic, — nonsensical girl!” “Forgive me. Madam; — how have 1 offended, ^ — Have you not taught me to be ingenuous? - — I disiike the Diike — I cannot conceal it.” “ingenuousv repeated my mother vvith a milder aspedl; you will prove that when you declare the obstacles that prevent suffolk’s fucceeiiing.” Let me beseech you, my Lady, to grant me a few weeks respite from ericouraging the duke’s Solicitations; - — but a Sew weeks and then, if I do not urge reasons that must Satisfy you I ought not to give him my hand; - if, aster hearing them, you continue to persuade me thus cruelly, — a method far Surer of gaining a
point than harshly commanding; -- -1 will,
as I have done all my life, yield obedience to your wishes, — and become the most unhappy of beings to gratify you, since my mother can have pleasure in my misery.”
Could
  199
Could I have Spoken more to the heart, my louisa.'’ — Lady pemberton.paused; — I threw myself on my knees and embraced her,
“Only a few weeks, my mother!’* -- -- -- -- --
She caught me in her arms, and kissed my forehead.
“Be it So, thou dear, irresistible girl! — I am contented, and will wait your leisure to hear the motives that at present adtuace
your obstinacy respedling Suffolk. -- -- -- I
will not till then interfere; — nor do I dessre to lay any constraint on you during this short Space that is devoted to joy' and happiness — your portion of both shall not
be interrupted * -- but remember, at our
departure from hence, I expetst to find my daughter as reasonable, and as considerate of her mother’s felicity as she has ever been. We will call another subject. Why, Julia, do you refuse to play sigismunda? — Is not' our excellent Mortimer entitled to every gratification you or any of the family can afford him Donot the entreaties you re ceited from all last night, deserve a concession What motive can you have, more, than your sister, or the other Ladies, for denying to perform I pleaded the old
K 4 exgufe,
/
1
0.00 M AS QUE R ADE S; or,
excuse, incapacity and timidity. My mother laid the excuse was ridiculousand mujl make me appear very conceited. I defended myself a few minutes to no purpose she silenced my objections, and bid me remark ' the delicacy of Lord Mortimer, in chus ing for Tancred no lover of mine, but one who was known to be engaged a very different way. — ^ — How my heart reproached me! — I grew cold, - — I could not answer. <4 Well, my'dear girl! you are not resolved to put a negative on every Solicitation I make, it is to be hoped !- — Grant me the favour of undertaking the part.” “You are the only person, Madam, for whom I would undertake it. — Hard as the talk is, I readily consent to yoijr desire.” She was well pleased; and after embracing me, I left her, to go in pursuit of Lady Mortimer.
I complained to her, in the bitterness of my heart, of Lord osmond’s behaviour; — my sister owned herself offended and astonished at it. — She was extremely hurt at my mother’s perseverance in the duke’s favour; and Suffered the tear of Sympathy to adorn her cheek, as I related Lady pemberton’s and my conversation. We then recurred
  20f
curred again to the former topic. Lord of mond’s strange carriage towards me.
“We must be patient, my Julia, ” cried she. “Not doubting but that you retain the Same prejudices against him, — he as sumes this indifference before you with a hope of piqueing your pride, which once. humbled, he flatters himself,. will render the fortress of your heart less impregnable 5 — and it must be confessed, that you treated him barbarously in London -- -- -- fatal
error!”
“Fatal indeed, my sister! — Was my Lord to reveal to me what he has done to you and my brother, I would not fail to inform Lady Pemberton of it, and of my unchangeable partiality; — then would she, I am Sure, desist from persecuting me aboutsuflblk, and at once consent to the marquis’s addresses. To tell her now how I am situated, would draw her aversion, perhaps, on Ofmond, and censure on me for entertaining what she would indubitably call a romantic passion, since, to appearance, the Marquis is endeavouring to conquer his. — She has already called me a romantic ghi hope I do not deserve the appellation. — If my Lord ak
5 gain
202 M AS <3:, U ER AD E S; or,
r
gain avows his love to me shortly, — I have nothing to fear; it would be injuring my mother’s tenderness to doubt of her con
r
currence with our wishes: — but, should he persist in this perplexing conduct— — foresee the most horrible misfortunes from it. — — What is to be done? Though Lady Pemberton may be silent, the Duke will not — and if I absolutely reject him (the thing I most ardently wish to do), shall I not be disobedient to my mother — And to evade a positive refusal, is to encourage him. —
, My God, instrud: me how to ad! I would rather die than marry Suffolk; and I would prefer even marrying him to disobliging my mother. But I once thought, Caroline, she would never be So urgent with a child of hers to marry any cbjed they had the shadow of a dissike to, ” Lady Mortimer bid me not be uneasy : she was Sure, she Said, everything would turn out well. God grant it! — But I have much to apprehend.
“Tell me, my sister, ” Said I, before ycu leave me,, is there any one of the ladies now in the house, that you think Seems attached to Lord Ofmond
Cer
\
  203
“Certainly!” replied she; “I think -- ^ you are, Julia. — Am I wrong
“Well, do not laugh, but answer me;
• — I am out of the cafe.”
“Indeed, then, my dear, I do; — I never Saw any woman more captivated in my life than the youngest miss Pelham is. You must perceive it, by asking the question.
1 am actually ashamed for her, when she stares at osmond for a length of time, and then draws Such deep sighs as cannot escape him. — I wonder her sister does not Speak to her of it! She is a Sensible girl, and more likely to observe the impropriety of it than the mother, who is really silly enough.” — What think you, Louila, of this circumstance Charlotte Pelham is pretty, and I imagine I do not injure her in laying she is artful. The latter, you must know, is dangerous to the unsuspcct ing : — yet I cannot believe the Marcjuis will' be caught by her allurements; he Seems indifferent to her. — She is not. I fancy, the sort of woman he likes; — but it is ciishcus; to pronounce v/hattime and gratitude may effect— — 1 am not uneasy about her, I affure you,
K 6 v
2&4 M AS(^UERADES; or,
* iff
Friday Nighty Eleven.
Ah, this cruel, artful, insinuating of mond I — Why, my louisa, cannot he Set my mind in Some degree at peace, by ceas ing to disturb me with his inconsistencies } — IS indeed he gives me up entirely — why not let me imagine So, by being uniform' ly indifferent on every occasion — Distressing as Such a certainty must be, how preferable to this fuspenfe!. — But, if I am still dear to him, — as I have reason Sometimes to think — oh! — why not afford himself one trial more?
After diiiner this day, before the Ladies retired, as I was engaged attentively in dis course with Mr. Dacre, I did not observe a. wasp that fixed upon my neck, till alarmed by hearing my mother Scream, who Sat opposite to me. Every one was in motion, — and called to me not to stir: terrified as I was, 1 had presence of mind enough to obey them. lordofmond, quick as lightning, anticipated the rest. By Some means
'which
to. '
7
WHAT YO U WILL. 205
which I cannot divine, he got the wasp into his hand, and Saved me from its venom by receiving the sting himself, I was Sorry to be freed from it at, Such an expense; — his fore singer, that Sustained the injury, became violently Swelled, — and shortly aster his whole hand : — he made light of it, and, when pressed to apply Some Specific to the affected part, turned it off in a jest, by say ing, he could not hlavne the inleft Ior revenging the mischief he had done it in depriving it of so charming an abode as the one it had chcfen^ and therefore patiently bore jo trifling an in conveniency as a just punifloment from a wasp
of such exquiflte taste“ “least you can do, Julia, ” cried my brother, “is to insist on administering a cure for the wound
you have occasioned. — osmond will not
deny permitting a Lady to become his physician.” He put a proper remedy into my hand, and desired me to apply it to the marquis’s. — osmond led me a little apart from the company.
“You hear. Madam, — you are desired
by your brother to apply a cure to the
wound you have occasioned will you not obey him V
With
2o6
“With the greatest pleasure, my Lord. — I am very unfortunate to have been the
causebetter I had Suffered myself! --
Give me leave to look at your hand.” He
presented it, -- and, whilst I bound the
ribbon (which he Sought fifty excuses to place — and replace, that he might detain me the longer), he continued Speaking low to me.
‘‘ Every Suffering that I could Screen you from, by enduring myself, would be considered by me as so many bleshngs : -
yet I make an exception; — there is one, — and only one., which I wish you to Sympathise with mein.’* “What, my Lord “Is it So difficult to guess, my Lady? — You have promised to administer relief to the pain you have given the anguish lies not in my finger — (stay. Lady Julia, — a pin might Supply the place of this knot) — but it could be easily found in my heart. — You are silent will you never compassionate your poor osmond? -- Well, at least permit
me to kiss these lovely hands, for the charitable office they have performed. — I could wish to be stung by twenty wasps every day, if after each dart 1 was to be thus
amply
/
  207
amply recompensed.” -^ -- -- He sighed, and
pressed my hand tenderly as he led me back to the company.
“You are a happy man, osmond, ” exclaimed the Duke of Suffolk, “in a double sense; first to have been able to rescue Lady Julia from the fell weapon of her enemy, and next in being rewarded So highly for your Service. — Were you not an engaged man, I should be devilishly apprehensive;
— but, regarding you in that light, I can allow you to have deserved the favours you just now received, and am far better pleascd you are the man, than a few I could name, now present“ “Suffolk,, you mean to question me in what manner my engagements really stand “Not I — stis very well known; — and, as you are a man of nice honour, I can have no Suspicions.”
Lord osmond (whose colour heightened at the duke’s first Speech) darted at him a look of fiery contempt, and repeated “No suspicions V I caught Lord Mortimer shaking his head at the Marquis, as much as to Say, “If you proceed, our plot is disconcerted.” 1 believe osinond understood
him.
t t
208  him in Some Such sense. — He immediately
recovered hi mse IS, and answered, “Your Grace is the happy man you just now called me: — my gratification was a temporary one, — yours will be the most lasting felicity, — and, by your manner of Speaking, — Seems built on a Sure foundation.” I could plainly discover irony in this reply — but no one elsedid : — the Duke took it for a compliment, - and reared his head up an inch higher than usual. It was against my nature to sit tamely by, and hear the man whom my Soul most abhorred, assuming to himself a privilege to which he had no title. As Soon as suffolk’s and Cfmontrs short dialogue ended, I addrefftd Lord Seymour audibly in the following manner : ■ “Pray, my Lord, why do not you nd Lord your fufpiciom f You
have just as good a right to do So as the Duke of Suffolk. — I may, without an imputation of vanity, call on you in this manner; 'f, r there is no one present who has not heard his Grace, your Lordship, and Lcrd Budenall, do me the unmerited honour of declaring yourselves my lovers; — and it is proper to mention, after what I
have
  209
have just attended to, that his Grace has received no encouragement which can give him any authority to Speak in the assured manner he has done”
The Duke bit his lips, and traversed the room in agitation : Lord Seymour answer ed diffidently, — but very gallantly; my brother whispered in rny ear, “perverse — haughty — impolite girl! — you must make ' the Duke an apology.” No indeed, ” was my answer— — feared to look at my mother; — I knew what reproach I should find in her countenance. — 1 threw my eyes on Caroline and miss Edgeumb, and Saw they were Supressing a laugh. Lord mortimer’s features demonstrated amazement and joy. Sophia and Almeria borrowed their looks from Lady Pemberton and my brother. I took courage and cast a glance at the Marquis. His eyes were fixed on the floor; one hand (the poor maimed one) in his bosom, the other engaged in playing with his watch chain. In Spite of his effort to conceal what passed in his heart, 1 plainly Saw pleasure illumine his heavenly eyes, when he reared them from the ground — and perceived similes play
about
y
210 ■ M A S (UE R A D E S; or,
\
about his mouth. “Good heaven, how cruel you are !” cried osmond: “Poor Suffolk V Oh, that I may be able to punish you for this! Said I to myselfi I turned my head away instantly, and observed Sir James Westbrook leaning over my chair. “Ha, ha! you are a girl of Spirit saith, ” cried he; I did not think it was in you! — Upon my soul, I am in love with you from henceforward : — now every one will be at rest; — I mean of your idolators. — You have nothing to do, but tell them I intend you for myself; and you must endeavour to bear your felicity with moderate joy — I have a few pangs at the idea of what two Duchesses, six Countesses, and a hundred women of rather inferior distinction, will Suffer — Poor little Emily too, -- she will break her heart — but no matter; — I am determined to reward you for your Spirited behaviour just now.” 1 was vexed at his trifling levity at Such a moment, and left him with a peevish air, after complimenting him with “how ridiculous you are. Sir James!”
I sidled towards my mother, and stood behind' her. “I am offended with you, Julia, ” Said she, in a low voice. “I declared
what you will. II
ed my concern at it, but vindicated what I had Spoken to the Duke. — Lady Pemberton passed it over, and made me no more reproaches.
After tea, as I was Sitting between Lord osmond and Mr. Temple, the Duke of Suffolk, leaning on my brother’s shoulder, approached, and stood before me.
“I have brought Pemberton, Lady Julia, ” cried he, to be my intercessor — at his request, you will not resuse to pardon the inadvertency of mine (which you construed into arrogance), that has drawn on me your displeasure. As you 'publicly ac cused me of transgreshng, — I publicly Sue for forgiveness; ” and down he dropped on one knee, throwing himself at the same time into a most becoming position. He certainly looked handsome at the moment, — even / could not help thinking So. My brother, in a Sarcastic manner, ashed if my heart was adamant? The humbled Suffolk would not rise, till I ajfured hitn that I was reconciled \ — and, as a proof it, I offered him my hand, which he kissed with an air of rapture. Lord osmond started from bis Seat, and left the room, but Soon returned
and
V
9
212 M A S Q, u ER ADES; or,
■ and found the Duke Sitting next to me— — had So much of the woman in me, as to appear more affable with him in the marquis’s presence than usual; and could not avoid feeling Some satisfaction at feeing the late laughings gajy indifferent Henry, mortified and disconcerted in his turn. When a man will descend to coquetry, louisa, (a mean quality I ever despised in one of our Sex), I can pardon an object for tormenting him with his own weapons; — therefore my behaviour rests excused to myself.
Just before we retired, — as miss edg cumb and 1 were standing together near a wdndow. Lord osmond pretended that she had dropped Something, and stooped to restore it to her: — she {d.xdihe was mijlaken., — ^ it did net belong to her. — He offered it to me : — 1 examined what he held in his hand as he presented it, without attempting to receive it, and Saw it was a Sealed paper. ^ I immediately disclaimed it. — — He persisted that it was my property, and pressed me, in the most fervent terms (which carried a double meaning, and were interpreted by miss Edgeumb and myself very differently I dare believe), to take what 1 knew in my
Joul
  213
soul no one had so good a title to as my Ladyjhip. I positively refused the paper. Our altercation drew Sir James Westbrook and Lord Pemberton to the Spot. They inquired wftatoccasioned it.? “theseladies, ” replied the artful Marquis, “have dropped a billet-doux; — each of them, fearful of a discovery, by exciting a little curiosity not quite so convenient to either of them to an swer, refuse to accept of it, — thinking, as the Seal is whole, they cannot be accused of knowing the contentsgueffing at the courageous Briefly, my Lord, their timidity
conquers their wishes, and leaves me master of the fpoilp “Give it to me, osmond !” cried Pemberton. “That I object to, ” exclaimed Westbrook you — a
Benedic, have no business with Such things now. “Thou, poor wretch! art paji’m.” — But, dear osmond, I conjure you, by all the hopes you have of Succeeding in your favourite wish with your favourite rnistress,
to commit that did bihet doux to ray hands 1”
. I
“Your conjurement acts on me as a Spell, ” replies the Marquis: “it is powerful, and requires Some Sort of charm on my
Side to oppose its influence. then, as I
■ hope
f »
A
%
214 M A S QUE R A D E S; r,
hope to convince that much loved haughty one you have named, of the sincerity and ardour of my passion; — as I hope to inspire her with a mutual return, — and one day be blessed in her possession; — I will not. — / must reap the advantage of these Ladies perverseness— — you are the author of the writing I now put into my pocket (which there is much reason to susped, Westbrook, though I am at a loss to determine whether your cousin was the object in point, or miss Edgcumb), you can have no occasion Sure to re perufe t \ — will keep your Secret, never fear. — I give you credit, however, for playing off very well So artful a piece of dissimulation— — to you, my Lord — I think it highly improper that you should have anything to Say to the paper. — A married man and a billet-doux should never be mentioned in the Same Sentence. — When I enter into the state which you adorn — and, I flatter myself, the time is not very distant — I • will not tail to pradtise what I now advise.” The three gentlemen turned off lo' the lower end of the room laughing and, in a few minutes after, the Ladies repaired to their apartments. — I am strangely puzzled
to
  215
to know jvhat that letter could contain. —
I think it was meant for me; -- he made only a siight offer of it to miss Edgcumb, —
and that merely to cover his design. -- -- -
It was silly of me not to take it \ yet 1
am glad that I did not; — there was too much the appearance of a clandestine procedure in the manner of giving it.
I have no steep in my eyes, — and, though ‘, k is late, I will write on.
Lord Budenall assured me, he very plainly sees, from what pajfes continually, that my friends wish to salute me Duchess of Suffolk.', “but remember, ” added he, with his usual impetuosity, “that event shall never happen, whilst this hand can draw a trigger, — or this wrist make, a lounge. --! will not resign you to any man upon earth — excepting one that I have fixed on in my own mind; — and he is So worthy of you, that, ardently as I love you, I, cannot be unjust enough to prevent a union, which, I actually see. Providence intended from
your births. -- Your distike to the Duke
is easily discovered by metherefore, I am passive: : — your mother’s -- your brother’s — your sister’s Solicitude” — I stopped
him
2i6 M as UE RADE S j or,
him short, by declaring I would hear no more; — and reproached him Severely for his violence. I asked him, What entitled him to dispute the will of those whom it was my
greatest happiness to obey ]f they were
fond of the match, did it not evince their tenderness and love of me, in forbearing to injiji on my sacrificing my inclinations to my duty? — a sacrifice I would indubitably make, were they to command it — He interrupted me in his turn, and was So extravagant in his expressions, that I told him, I was al moji rejolved never more to admit even of the friendly intercourse which 1 consented to make the substitute of a foster one. He became composed, and our quarrel ended. You know my Sentiments of Lord Budenall, and will fuppose it would mortify me not a little to lose his acquaintance. Sensible, generous, and humane, are epithets as justly his, as handsome, graceteil, and captivating, are Lord osmond’s. — — Now could I draw comparisons, -- and condemn the'frail ty of human nature, which never fails to be caught with the glare of Superficial excellencies; -- whilst the more admirable
ones, the excellencies of the heart, are
coldly
  217
coldly praised, — but always neglected....
Ah! — How malicious! — how inconsistent I am! — Does not the beloved Henry pos sess the Same good qualities that I commend in Lord Budenall I -- -- Sure he does!
— and in forming the most perfect— — most enchanting person in the world, — the
hand of Heaven did not fail to make the
»
soul worthy of its habitation. -- Besides,
have I not always allowed him to be master of every virtue — Odd inconsistency I repeat, — thus to have changed my note, and instrud you to believe Lord osmond’s
inferior to Lord budenall’s! -- -- -- What
strange caprices fall from my pen now that my heart is become the siave of an ardent passion! — You have the painful talk, my louisa, of reconciling the many contrarieties ir pours forth, of expression, — of Sentiment, — of feeling : — can I possibly in fiid a greater punishment on you r — But to return. Who is this worthy man whom Budenall has appointed to be my husband?? Lord osmond certainly; — oh, no! for there is not one in the house who suspeds me to be the object of his love. — How rejoiced I am, that I again fusped it; — ah!
vol. II L was
/
2i8   ok,
was my brother to do as much! — Indeed I think Lord Pemberton changed; — I do not find hirn So gentle with me as he was formerly. When a young man marries, he imagines his consequence doubled: — his having a wife to govern, gives him the bint to exert an authority over Sisters, ^ — nieces, — Servants, • — in short, wherever he can be allowed to do So. My Lord was, and is, an exception to this almost general folly. I hope, when the novelty, of being a hujband is over. Lord Pemberton will reassume his natural character, and be once more the amiable, ten er, affectionate brother. -- But I represent
him, perhaps, more altered than he really is; — yet you can judge, from knowing the kind manner in which I was constantly used by him, how very striking the least (difference in his behaviour must be to me, ■ ■ From any other brother, — his present treatment would be called gentle and fond j — from Lord Pemberton, it is morose and indifferent. — — Sometimes I think, that my apprehension of — I know not what — causes me to fancy all this, without having any true foundation for it.
After
%
\
V

219
After tomorrow I shall be entirely taken up in studying and rehearsing the part of Sigifmunda; you must therefore excuse hearing from me, till that disagreeable affair is over. — I believe I shall want courage; — but the idea of appearing very awkward without Some degree of it, will inspire it. - — — Sure there is the Sound of music! — It approaches — it is under my windows : — how extraordinary! — Certainly there is nothing So awfully pleasing as harmony at ths late hour! — Our beaux are instituting at Windsor the customs of the Spaniards in Serenading their ladies. — Strange animal I am !- — An unusual chill strikes through my whole frame — why this terror Ridiculous Sool! — I cannot reason it away. — Were I as fond of indulging the gift of augury as you are, — I woulci expatiate an hour on the melancholy presages of my heart; — a Series of calamities which Seem the instruments
are hushed — a loud talking — my God 1 I cannot go on — I must call mour nies to sit with me, whilst I get into bed 5 — yet, poor creature! I dismissed her long ago; — she is buried in the arms of steep, and my silly fears shall not disturb her— —
2 The
s.
S'
«
220 MAS QJJ ERADES; or.
The music begins again, -- my Spirits revive — Heavens, what a charming voice I — I must listen; — stis osmond’s, louisa — ’ds my osmond’s! -- -- -- They have left my window
— The words he Sung I well remember to have admired long before I heard them from his lips.
“When first I Saw thee gracesul move.
Ah, me! what meant my throbbing breast!
Say, Soft confusion, art thou love?
— If love thou art — then farewell rest I
\
/
With gentle Smiles assuage the pain Thole gentle Smiles did first create.
And, if thou canst not love again,
— In pity, ah! — forbear to hate.”
I am ashamed of having been So weak as to expose Such causeless terror to you; — I cannot account for it any other way, than by having written myself into the horrors, which made me liable to every fearful im pressicn : — yet that music. So much my delight, should give rise to any, is strange! I will take my leave, lest I should next imagine that Some genii may enter my apartment, and transport me through the air, a
thou
 21
V
thousand leagues off, to an enchanted iste;. — or Some evil goblin appear and descend with me to a Subterraneous cave, the habitation of demons, or monsters, either of which methinks not more absurd than my first apprehensions were.
# ' * * * m
* * * *
\
Saturday Noon.
Vfe were curious to know to which of the cavaliers our acknowledgments should be directed, for having been So gallant this
morning : -- -- they would not Satisfy us
I thanked Lord Ofmond fa the pleasure I received., in hearing a very delightful voice, that I plainly distinguished to be his. He was all Amazement L — ftire I mistook!! — could not have formed such a conjeflure! — he never fling! and repeated many of the like exclamations, which only tended to convince me, that I was very right in fixing on him my Suspicions, — and that he deviated fropi truth in denying the charge.
About an hour ago, the Marquis begged to dance with me this evening. — 1 express
L 3 edi

\
222 MAS Q, U E R A D E S; or,
CD my mortification at being engaged to the Duke of Suffolk. He threw uncommon meaning into his eyes; and was turning from me as is in high discontent *
“my Lord, the other Ladies change partners, which it is most probable to think they will, — I shall hope, in the course of the night, to profit of the .favour you now offer me.”
“My wishes for your gratification are So abstracted from all interestedness, that I am hardly Selfish enough to desire it might be the case; — — I must think it will pain you, my Lady, to yield the Duke to another, even in a dance.”
“I cannot pretend to control your opinion, Lord osmond; — but it may err Sometimes I”
“Does it on this occasion, my adorable. Lady Julia and he Snatched my hand, while joy dilated his countenance.
“You do not deserve I should answer you; ” and I left him.
* * * » * * 4f *
Saturday
«
■5
 23
Saturday Half pajl Eight
The ball is begun; — I have little pleasure in the thought of entering amongst the
o 00
Splendid throng, and have not yet made my appearance. — The first object that strikes my eyes on going in, I know will be Lord, Osinond, Seated next to, or standing near, the envied Lady who is to be mistress of
his hand for the night. -- -- vtx\\2^^s, ' that
Lady — may be Charlotte Pelham 1 -- -- Perhaps
her cleverness will teach his heart to become congenial with hers! -- -- His vanity
— or gratitude may favour her wishes — and I shall be as much defpised by him — as Lady Henrietta Marchmont is. — dis agreeable ideas! — Hated Suffolk, that is ever more the barrier to my happiness! — Be quiet, Mournies! — I will not be thus teased! — She is tormenting me to death to go down. — Aye, you may look cross, I care not. — She thinks that she is always to have me under the Same command that she had me when I was a child!
But must I not be Sunk very low in my own opinion, if I can entertain a thought of being despised by any man i “It was indeed, ” you cry, “a slip of your pen, to
L 4 express
*
224 M A S CLUE R A D E S; or,
exprcss one So little correspondent with the pride of the Herberfs /” — Well, louisa, though I take the reproof (for you always told me I was a proud girl), I shall not behave to Lord osmond as if I Supposed it in
his power to think meanly of me -- -- -- 1 will
preserve in my own person the female dig nity that every woman of virtue ought to
assume. -- -- So! — my heart reproaches me
now for my peevishness to poor Mournies 1 -- -- - “Why, rny good friend, are you impatient for my going down ?” -- -- -- -- “The
minuets will be over, and your Ladyship will not dance one.” Dear Mournies, what signifies my minuet! -- Lady Mortimer likes to do things in a particular way, else we should have had no minuets till theball was nearly finished, and there would have been fewer performed, which I think
best.” -- -- -- - “Certainly! unless they are
well performed. — ldr^y., my Lady, go down !” — “1 will not refuse you but is miss
Edgcumb ready 1 -- -- -- We agreed to go in
. together. -- -- Ah! she appears; and means
to do great execution, no doubt, from the elegancy of her habit. — How handsome she is! — Poor Sir James!
  22j
% ilf * » * ^ * ♦
k * * * * if! * *
1
Sunday Morning Three o’clock.
For the Sake of decency, perhaps, you think I ought to suppress this date, as ic too plainly tells we have Suffered the Sabbath to shine upon our revels. The French make no account of Such encroachments; — nay, their balls, plays, care in preference given on Sundays; — and, from my having lived Some years amongst them, I am So far reconciled to the custom, as to imagine there can be no harm in enjoying on that day innocent amusements. I am by no means Singular in the opinion; for every dancer was inspired with more life and Spirit after twelve, than before, — and testified no Scruples in indulging themselves in their recreation.
On going through a long gallery which leads to the ballroom from our apartments, (and which was magnificently illuminated for the occasion, and thrown open as Soon as the minuets were ended,) Miss Edgcumb and I met Lord Ofmond returns
5 ing
226
ing through it. He looked remarkably handsome; my companion made the observation as he approached us; — his dress was becoming, Suited to the hot season, and the diversion which he intended to engage in. “Youare very late. Ladies !/* cried the Marquis. That fluttering beaux assembled
in that room, mourn your absence; — but you have well employed the time, — you will teach the torches to burn brightv He returned with us to the door, and. Seeing us met there by the Duke of Suffolk and Mr. Montague, retired as was his first purpose, while the gentlemen led us to our places. We were hardly Seated, when Mr. Bishop (one of the masters of the ceremonies) informed me, my minuet must be next as the Duke of Suffolk had entreated that he may be allotted to dance it with me., and that the rules jof precedency Should. be disregarded con -- cerning him for that reason“ “” added he, “we should not have So punctually obeyed his Grace, had you entered earlier.” He offered me his hand; burr, as we advanced halfway up the room, the Duke of Suffolk met us, and with a certain air of gallantry (which never fails to excite
admira
\
YOU WILL. 227
admiration and encomiums from the Ladies), took my hand from Mr. Bifnop, and led me to the top of the room. I dare far there was not a female present, exclusive of my family, and one or two intimate friends, who did not think me the happiest girl in the world. I am generally loath to expatiate on suffolk’s praises, — but common justice demands it of me here: — his minuet was an exceeding fine one. -- -1 do not know whether
impartial judges would not even yield to him ihtpalm, in preference to Lord osmond;; — cannot, — for there is in my opinion more ease in the marquis’s movements Though the duke’s elegant figure premised how well he must dance, (I Speak only of minuets; other dances I had Seen him excel in before,) iconfess 1 wtis struck at his performance; and exerted myself that I might not absolutely disgrace him. As we finished, I Saw Lord osmond standing at no great distance, opposite to me: — his face was flushed with indignation I thought, and my anxious fears instantly Suggested that Someor other had happened. As we passed him in returning to my place, lashed what was the matter He made me no
L 6 reply,
%
*
sag M asq_u£rades; or,
reply. Soon after I directed my eyes to the upper part of the room, and perceived him leading Lady Maria Harley to the Spot I had quitted. — My fears of Charlotte Pelham directly vanished — a far more formidable rival stood forth to dispute with me the heart of osmond. — Good heaven, what did I not Suffer 1 1 thought her beautiful,
and that he gazed on her with eyes of transiport My jealousy fixed her to be the person to whom his hand would be dedicated for the night. “Delightful figure!” — Admirable movement!” — “What grace !” -
“What elegance he displays !” — These exclamations resounded in my ears. Ah! thought I, how Solicitous he is to please his partner! — Did he ever take Such pains when he danced with me? — I was disturb, CD from this resseclion, by hearing Sir James Westbrook Say, “A very pretty couple now on the ssoor — and well matched — do not you think So, Lady Julia wretch! — How I detested him! — I pretended deaf ness to what he Sfid; — and escaped the mortification of pronouncing “Yes.’* After the Marquis led her to her seat, he stood Some time by her. numberless les yeux
doux
 29
doux that passed between them; and frequently were white teeth displayed by the reciprocal Smiles they bestowed on each other. — At length osmond stooped low, and whispered Something in her ear. — I watched the motion of his lips; — they seemed to Sa)'', “I wish you to be my partner I” God knows what answer she made, — but he looked delighted and bowed— — Some minutes
after, he left her. -- He approached the
place where I Sat; — Lord Budenall officiously resigned his Seat to him, pretending to go in quest of Westbrook, and point out to him Some slight inadvertency he had committed in his department (a master of ceremonies). osmond blejfed the occajion that afforded him an opportunity of being so near me; and, exchanging a look of expression with Budenall, took his place, “Your Ladyship Spoke to me just now; — I was rather perplexed — and— — — too much
-- -- Will Lady Julia repeat what she So
condescendingly Said ?”
“It was of no consequence, my Lord;
■ — Scarcely remembered by me. — The minuets are just ended. I See Mr. Bishop leading up Almeria; hers, if I guess right, will
be
ZO M ASCLH ERADES; or,
be the lash As Sister to the mistress of the ball, I was not privileged to dance So Soon; I am indebted to you, my Lord Duke, for that distinction.” Suffolk, who was at my left hand, returned me a rapturous complimentary reply, which was for the first time agreeable to me, because Lord OSMOND
heard it. -- -- -- Coquetry! — oh! —
detestable! — but I was Sadly grieved, — and full of resentment. — He led the way, — and I have already Said reprisals on that head are justifiable. Lord osmond Seemed thunderstruck. -- -- theduke was called aside
by Some one. — After a minute’s pause, the Marquis recovered his Speech. “Lady Julia, what am 1 to think of Such tyrannic — Such horrible treatment V “Pretend not to think at all of me my Lord; — my behaviour cannot affect you.” — “By heaven. Madam, it is no longer to be born! — The minion plumes himself on your preference,
shall be humbled to the dust !■ — I
have endured it too long.” -- -- - “Does
your Lordship Speak with the intention of terrifying me “Ha! — is this bewitching Suffolk So dear to you then “I hold you all in an equally indifferent light— — ^

*
  251
I.
But let me tell you, Lord osmond, the man
who Seeks a quarrel on my account will make himself So hateful to me, that I shall ever after shun him as my worst enemy, and will Sooner encounter death than his presence.” — “I have done : -- but let me implore that Some time this night — I may Say a few words in private to you; — for mercy’s Sake, my dear juliae (the charming appellation still vibrates on my ear,) “grant me this!” What do you alk? — The menacing
tone you just now assumed — your inconsistent behaviour -- No, my Lord, — indeed I
cannot.” “Good heaven! how disagree able to you I must be! — But is there any impropriety in what I ajk — Before I had time to answer, Suffolk returned, and took my hand to lead me to my place. As I arose, I inquired of the Marquis, who was his partner? He replied, “The first Lady that wants one, — though I have little inclination to offer myself.” However, he did not Seem So totally infenfihle on the occasion; — for within four couple of me stood Lord osmond with Lady Maria Harley; — and, strange as it may Sound after what had pasted, -- he played the lover to as much per --
section

fe^lion to her, as he had done to me, though in a livelier manner. — Indeed I only judged from appearances, for not a Syllable did I hear of any part of their conversation.
Sir John Benyon engaged me for the two following dances; — as, at my request. Lady Mortimer proposed there might be a constant change of partners at the end of every Second dance.
As Mr. Montague was leading me out of the cotillon room, we were hastily followed by Lord Osmond. He held Lady maria’s hand (for they made the opposite couple to Mr. Montague and me in the dance we had just finished). “i.ady Julia, ” cried the Marquis, “do you recollect your promise ?” “None that I ever made your Lordship, ” “Indeed! — I will remind you of one in a miiiute. — — Ladies do adapt their memories So much to their inclinations! — Pardon me, — but I cannot help” -- -- - “Oh I pray say no more — it is natural that you should find nothing but foibles in our composition : — each individual of your Sex is So justly thought by us a Jian.. dard of human excellence, that I am only a raazed how you can condescend to converse
with
4
W H A T Y O U WILL. 233
with a female, ” “Thank you for this Severe Sarcasm;; — an instant I will attend' you.” He and his fair companion passed us, and entered the apartment thrown open for refreshments. My proud heart despis ed him at the moment. — What! shall I waithere in patient expectation of his coming half an hour hence, to cheer my drooping Spirits with a few kind words, already hackneyed in his application of them to Lady Maria Shall I wait the minute he can best Spare from her to devote to me r — Ah, never! -- forbid it, pride! — This passed in my breast. — “Mr. Montague, let us go into the gallery, and Seek miss Edgcumband my sisters; I believe they are there. My mother whispered me, that she was going to cards; — in that room the dancers have no business.” He caught my hand as if to detain me. “Lord osmond Said he would be back immediately; — he will be at a loss to find us.” “No matter; — he will console himself; — and I would rather find my Sister and Emily, -- than that his Lordship should find us.” “Indeed, Lady Julia, you in a great measure deserve the charadtcr that you have, of being very barbarous!~
Good
234
Good God! how much is that man cursed, who is So miserable as to love you !” “You Speak not with your usual kindness; but, greatly as your opinion wrongs me, — I forgive you — - — one proof at least, that I am not that inhuman savage my good friends judge me to be.” — 1 need not tell you what polite Speeches the gentle Frederick made me afterwards, to compensate for his uncivil one. We turned into the gallery, and beheld in one corner of it a very joyous group: those who composed it were Lady Percival, Almeria, and the eldest Miss Pelham; the Count debelfielde, Sir John be nyon, Mr. Bishop, and that laughter loving creature Sir James Westbrook. We Seated ourselves amongst them, and joined in their conversation : they told us Lady Pemberton and miss Edgcumb were dancing. Some little time after 1 Saw Lord osmond enter the gallery; curiosity and anxiety painted on his features. He begged Sir James to make room for him on the Sofa where Westbrook and I Sat, and made a slight attempt to get between us. “dell quelle harbare V exclaimed the Baronet, drawing close to me. “Who could have conceived
it?
>
  235
it? — No, no, good Lord osmond; be Satisfied, and let other men enjoy Some gratifications as well as youxitm. -- Ma belle confine would never forgive me, if I resigned my place to you. 'poor girl! — I have often represented to her the inconveniency that might attend showing So much fondness; — burr, alas! there is no helping it, she Says. — — — What will you do, dear Julia, if 1 am Soon Sent to America? Government thinks it a pity that such an officer should not be employed at So critical a juncture; — therefore it is not improbable but that I shall embark in a few weeks for the continent.” I beg pardon. Sir James; but it appears very improbable that you should be Sent to
America.” -- -- “Ah! you flatter yourself.
-- -- Pray why So ?’* “because they no
longer admit exiles there from hence; — and I believe you will go in no other capacity.” — The laugh was against him for a minute; — but he did not Spare me for it, — and I should have been obliged to quit the party in compassion to my temper, which his monkey like tricks began to fret, if miss Edgeumb had not appeared, and freed me
from
>
236
I
from, his ridiculous wit. He stew to her, and the Marquis took his Seat.
“Well, Madam, ” cried he, “now I will remind you, that you were So gracious as to Say I should have the honour of your hand in the course of the ball: how unkind of you. Sweet Lady Julia, not to consent, two hours ago, to make me another prornise, yet more essential to my happiness
1 -- Let me again press that Subject—
— me after Supper when the company enter into the full enjoyment of dancings and are too much engrossed to attend to anything but their own diversion, favourme then — in the presenceof Lady Mortimer -- with your company for half an hour in this gal jery. — My ever amiable — my most dear Julia, refuse not your Henry! — I can no longer linger on a life thus clouded with suspence— — me. Madam; — may I hope for your concurrence“
“am much at a loss, my Lord, what to say. — If I deny you, I am immediately charged with the titles of barbarous — cruel -- and tyrannical; — I am thought perverse. How unjustly I merit I'uch appellations.
Heaven that knows my heart can tell!
But
/

WHAT YOU WI LL. 237
0
But, to be Sincere, I do not See why I should consent to this private conversation. — Your behaviour perplexes me — what can you have to Say So important?” “Ah, Lady Julia, .' — Do you forget one particular night at Ranelagh ?” “No certainlybut I cannot think it possible that you mean to renew that Subject— — conduct ever since you came to windsor has So directly
contradicted” -- -- louisa, I had Said too
much — I trembled -- my face felt hot from the blush that overspread it; as red a one diffused itself over the marquis’s — He at ternpted to catch rny hand; — I withdrew it from his effort; -- joy notwithstanding Sparkled in his eyes.
“My adorable Lady Julia! why this
hesitation -- -- Ah, Madam! I can easily
vindicate my behaviour -- -- This is not an
opportunity for it; — already are we observed. — Let me have the felicity I have begged '
for after Supper; and” -- Ere he had time
to proceed, — or I to answer, Suffolk sinned himself to my ffeeve; and Lord osmond, finding there was no probability of getting rid of him, left us. To Say the truth, Loui, Sa, I was not Sorry for the interruption '
my
238 MAS Q, U E R A D E S; or,
my heart murmured against the marquis’s apparent levity, in Spite of his assurances to vindicate it.” ^he also pleaded warm^ ly for my agreeing to his request. — — Thus agitated between conssidling anger and af fetstion, I knew not how to ad:. — Besides, after the unguarded words that escaped me, I dreaded confirming too plainly to him the interest he had in my breast, by consenting to the meeting. His vanity, no doubt, led him to interpret in the most grateful sense what I had Said; and can there be anything under heaven more mortifying than to discover a pashon for a man, whose Self sufficiency would Suggest to him to take advantage of it, and wound me, by showing his consequence in the eyes of another, whom his demeanour had already taught me to regard in the light of a rival?
A few minutes elapsed and I took my resolution it was, to assume a nonchalance to Lord osmond., which could not fail to contradict: any flattering impreshons my heedless words might have caused on his vanity; and, if he again pressed for an interview, absolutely to deny him. Thus haughtiness and, regard to my own delicacy
(which
  239
•V
(which I thought injured) determined; a Softer advocate attempted to plead in opposition to the harsh decree, but was instantly rebuked, and Silenced. — We went to Supper; — I looked for Lord osmond : — ^ not feeing him, I concluded he had taken his place at another table in another apartment— — next person my eyes Sought after, was Lady Maria Harley — they found her not, and there was no remaining doubt of her being Seated at the side of the
stuttering, inconstant osmond -- -- 1 recall
that last epithet; -- he was conjiant — as a
partner, — though by no means So as a lover. Singular enough appeared the couple; contrary to the prescribed rule, they danced always together before Supper, and, once more I repeat, — Seemed too happy with each other for my peace. I am prolix; — let your desire that ijhould he minute excuse it, if I tyre you.
After we had risen from table, the Marquis once more joined me: — I engaged Emily Edgcumb in the conversation, and, notwithstanding his reproachful looks, gave him no opportunity of saying a Syllable to me unheard by her. In his presence Mr.
Temple
240
Temple begged me to dance the next cotillon and the two following country dances with him. “Lady Julia, ” exclaimed osmond,
is it necessary to bring again to your remembrance that I am privileged to have the pleasure of your hand from your own consent? — Surely Mr. Temple will be refused !” “I hope not, my Lord; you are not more ambitious than I am of the hap piness I aspire to: — Lady Julia will determine, ”
“If Lord osmond bad Spoken in time, I certainly should as readily have danced with his Lordship as with any other partner. — I have observed the rule, and changed as regularly as I was desired. — Mr. Temple has now anticipated you, my Lord; and though I am really fatigued, and thought to dance no more, — I cannot resuse the honour you offer me, Sir.” — The impetuous Henry abruptly left us; — and 1 overheard him utter, “Death and confusion! — bel fielde Says rightly, every woman is a coquette.” — When the cotillon finished. Lord osmond (who was a looker on) and Lady Maria Harley stepped forth in an allemande, which was very well performed. I overheard
Lady
 S 241*
Lady Walpole exclaim, “If Lord of mond had been a youth at the time of mr stanhope’s residence abroad, Lord Chesterfield must have had him in his thoughts as a pattern, when he So constantly recommended to his Son to facrijice to the gracesp, After the allemande. Lord osmond resigned Lady Maria to Some other beau, and took Almeria for his partner. Whenever I met him in the dance, his looks were averted; — if he chanced to hold my hand in turning, cc. he ceased to press it: — in short, cool indifference possessed every feature, and, as Lady Maria was no longer the object of my jealousy, I began to fear I had gone a little too far. I gave over dancing, heartily wearied of it, but infinitely more of the agitations that had formed a chaos in my bosom the whole night. 1 caught a few minutes, when Lady Mortimer was Secluded from the crowd, to tell her what had passed. After listening attentively, she laughed, — yet with a vexed countenance, however paradoxical that may sound; and answered, You take pains to bring on the perplexities of which you complain j — yet, as vol. II M they
5
\
.J
444
they proceed from Such virgin delicacy, I tnust not pretend to condemn you I sup pose. Hark ye, Julia, as Sure as you exist, you will rejine away your happiness f — — my life for it, osmond never more troubles you with his pashon — Lady ma tia Harley will be a tolerable Substitute: if she is not sh cnchantingly lovely as you are, she is less proud. I Speak the Sentiments of Lord osmond, depend upon it, — and now leave you to your ressedlions.’^
“When I want a confolerv Caroline, you shall not be the person I fix on. Good Heaven, how unkind! Upbraid me as you may, I cannot think mysclf wrong — If I do iose the marquis affections, I shall imagine there is more blame to be ascribed to my unlucky fate, than, to my own conduct. This is no place to enjoy those re fiefiions you consign me over to; but, as I mean to obey you, shall retire to my closet, and there give Scope to them.” She would have replied, but I hastened from her, to conceal the emotions I did not wish she should be witness of.
On retiring through the gallery, I passed Lady Maria ‘‘ Wear not to lofeyou yet.
Lady
/ »
9
  243
Lady Julia, I hope!” she Said. I know not what answer I made : L intended it should be polite, and think it was; but my heartfelt no very warm impressions in her favour at the moment.^this, for the Sake of ingenuousnefs, must be confessed. After a little while, I reasoned myself into great composure, and took up my pen but a recapitulation of the past Scenes has entirely destroyed it. I will not infedk you with my chagrin. Two hours have I Spent in writing.. A more delightful morning never blessed the universe it gives me an inclination to enjoy it in d walk -- -- -- Yet I require rest,, and believe I
- shall find it more beneficial to go to bed.
- That prudent plan every creature else has followedi; for the house is very quiet
% % # %
Sunday Two o^cloch
I have not shen the Marquis. Heavens knows whither he is gone — I Suppojfc ta pay his devoirs to Lady Maria Harley,, who lives ten miles from windsot.
M z ^ to
^44
On Lady pemberton’s ashing for him. Sir James Said, that he saw him from hi window mount his horse about eight d.cloce I turned to Caroline, and wondered where Lord Mortimer was? “He was obliged,
” she Said, “to go a little way off on business; but would Soon be back.” So you See, louisa, they are not together,
as I at first hoped. -- Well, no matter! —
I must bear what is to happen, and that without complaining. Be it ever So bad, it cannot be more dreadful than this state of perpetual anxiety and fuspence.
tomorrow presents us with the Provoked Husband— — I have forsworn lamenting the loss of my faithless Corydon which I could fill quires in doing; and as I dare not make anything Serious my sub je<st, lest I forget the pious resolution; I will employ a few moments which lie upon my hands, in telling you how the characters are cast of our next play.
Lady Pereival performs Lady Townley j miss Edgcumb, Lady Grace; miss Pelham, Lady Wronghead; miss Walpole, miss Jenny; Mrs. Ashley and Mrs. Stanley (a neighbour of Lady Mortimer's)
conde
* ^
I
  «4|
condescend to the other two female parts, * Lord Mortimer, I before mentioned, undertakes Lord Townley; the Duke of Suffolk, Mr. Manley; Sir James Westbrook, Count Basset (I tell him he will never lose the title); Lord Percival, Sir Francis Wronghead; Mr. Bishop, Squire Richard; Captain Walpole, John Moody, The Farce will be the deserter: Skirmish, by Sir James; louisa, by miss Charlotte Pelham; and Henry, by Lord Seymour. I forget who are to be the other performers.
On Tuesday we dine at Lady Maria harley’s. What delight shall I take in the visit! My situation will be enviable! On Wednesday we are to have a Fete Cham fetre^ at which every one Seems much pleased. Poor Lord Mortimer I what trouble he gives himself to gratify his guests! On thurstlay, Caroline treats us with her appearance in Lady Betty Modish: Lord Pemberton is to play Sir Charles easy; Mils Edgcumb, Lady Easy;; John Benyon, Lord Morelove; and Sir James, Lord Feppington — The creature is really a good Support: to mv brother’s
/

stage, and does incomparably well; particularly in the coxcomb’s province: but then he takes sh much merit to himself in consequence of his theatrical abilities, that there is no end to it when he begins his own eulogium, which is not Seldom. — You will find a difference in my manner of writing of this cousin of mine. I have not forgiven him for many of his volatile Speeches within these few days; and my pen cannot avoid venting a little of my acrimony.
I have already told yon, dear louisa, that.it will not be in my power to write to you again till after tomorrow se’miight — Most mornings in the intermediate Space will be taken up in rehearsals;; every moment I can Spare must be dedicated to
the unfortunate Sigismunda. -- My own
situation will cause me to feel hers but too Sensibly, I wish Lord osmond was not to
be Tancred -- -- and yet I should not be
pleased either, were it otherwise — In short,. I know not wdiat to desire but certain it is, I shall not find performing the part of one who Seels the pashon of love in its fullest force, and that for an object who
feed
  *47
ibeds it by an equal return, a Specific for my infatuation — but, ah! when that charming hero is represented by the very man whom I love to distraduon, every tender word he addresses to me will make
an impression- -- -- shall forget they come
from Tancred, and only remember they proceed from the lips of the incomparable Henry. Fleeting indeed will be my happiness; yet it must Serve, after So ridiculous a mummery, to make me the more regret that this dear osmond will in realityt repeat thole professions to another, to which I was but a shadow. — I see I cannot avoid running into the dismal stylebut I will quit it in Spite of inclination,.
My eyes deceive me, or certainly I perceive Lord osmond and Lord Mortimer by the Temple of Apollo! — Sure I
do not mistake! -- -- They are lost to my
sight by Some shrubs — it cannot be — I am.
in an error !^ -- and yet L am not, — for
now they appear again more plain. -- -- -- It
is they, my louisa! — indeed it is! — Cruel Caroline — could you think it of her, my
Sweet friend? -- Hope revives; -- -- they have,
perhaps, made me part of their con
versatione. —
\
#
f
*
•4 ^
348   c;
versation. — Adieu, louisa! the business
of dressing calls me — — I will be more studious in that point this day than ever— — will consult my glass with uncommon
assiduity — banish all pride -- all cold
reserve from my bosom — and if, by any delicate effort, I can make one grasp at happiness, I will Secure it.
Ever yours,
Julia Herbert.
N. B. A letter is here omitted from Sir Charles Montague, which informs the Marquis that Lord Beaumont is out of danger, but not well enough to admit of his departure from Beaumont hall; which makes him uneasy, as he is impatient to revisit sommerville house. A letter is aiso omitted from Lady Louisa Sydney.
END OF VOL. IL



MASQUERADES
OR
WHAT YOU WILL
BY THE
AUTHOR OF ELIZA WARWICK, to
tv

«
'IN FOUR VOLUMES,
VOL. Ill,
V
• \
%
L O N D O N:
*
Printed for J. B E W, in Pater nofter.row;
4
MDCCLXXX,

X
 ,
\
k
To Sir Charles Montague.
wind/or,
I Have not had a minute before this present one to inform you how I go on : — a longer silen.ee will draw'on me your execrations. My Spirits are too much discomposed to write with any Sort of method; yet make the best of what 1 send you, and be thankful that I use an effort to gratify your impatience. >'
On alighting from my chaise last Monday evening, Mortimer met me with open arms, and a countenance on which pleasure danced.
vol. III B « these
2 M A S (UE R A D E S; or,
“these happy features, dear Mortimer, bespeak Some comfort to your friend! Dare I trust my Senses You have Sympathised in my misery; perhaps you have now cause to do So from a contrary effect. — Is your fair sister less cruel ?” — I rejoice, osmond, to tell you (if I can judge from appearances), that Julia is not So indifferent you and I imagined. — For a while be cautious not to give room for Suspicion that you are her lover. The Duke of Suffolk is hourly expected here : -- her family Seem determined to encourage his addresses; — could they
suppose you stood in” -- -- -- “By heaven! I
would have all the world suppose I will dispute So valuable a treasure with him. — Shall I look tamely on, and See him rob me of the woman I dote on to madness — My Lord, I did not believe you thought me So abjetst.”
“Be patient, dear osmond, and hear me.” -- -- --
“You reason coolly, who know not what I Suffer. — “Suffolk expected hourly! and her family seem determined to encourage his addresses I” — Do I not know, then, what I have to expect? — Is not Lady Julia all
con:
: ✓.
YOU WILL. 3
«
condescension to her friends.? -- -- No, my
Lord; — the union shall never be! So far from disguising my Sentiments, I will, the first .moment that offers, assert my prior claim; and, if it is rejected— — shall feel my vengeance!”
“pursue your plan; — go and proclaim your passion; — hold your Sword to the duke’s breast; — See what advantages you will reap from So prudent a conduct!! will be favourably disposed towards a man who possesses Such noble warmth of temper; who will render her fame popular by a duel! The Duke of Westmoreland, too, will be compelled to authorise your attachment, when, in defiance of his commands, you, openly assert your love for an object he disapproves of; indeed, from mercenary motives alone! But, to complete the whole, how readily will Lady Pemberton and her
Son give my Sister to you after So” -- -
“No more, Mortimer, no more! — Pardon my hastiness — I blush at it! — Tell me how I shall ad; — I will be guided implicitly by your counsels.”
Only thus — Be careful, for a time, to conceal your passion from the prying eyes
B 2 that
t
I
%
4 M asdljeradesj or,
that will Surround you; nay, to blind them the more effectually, countenance the report of your marriage with Lady Henrietta; it will be the best Security. Trust to Julia a little, in respedt of the Duke; she likes him not. When her mother and Pemberton find how insurmountable her a version to him is, he must be dismissed. You will next propose to them : — you will represent your situation, ^ — your father’s unkindness,
-- -- your long attachment to the
Sweet girl, — your misery without her; — in short, the whole catalogue of Speeches pertinent to the occasion, which your Seducing manner must assuredly render Sufficiently prevalent: — they consent to her becomiing Lady osmond; — you “marry and settle
in the country -- So conc\\}fiq%your novel.
— Is it not well hid our, and far more likely to Succeed than your cutting of throats “Ah, Mortimer, what a Scene of delight do you open to my view !- — Heaven grant her to me! and it is all I have to alk.” “Courage, my friend! — but, as you value your happiness, be cautious.”
After these restrictions, I was obliged to be very circumspectt in my behaviour to
.Lady
WHAT Y OU WILL. 5
Lady Julia, fearing to incur the suspicions Mortimer dreaded, and which I plainly Saw might have been fatal to the expedarions we hid just raised. Flattered by them, and the hope he gave me of her not be: ing so indifferent as 1 imagined, and anxious to be
convinced of the certainty of it, I resolved
^ *
piu'fue your advice. I Suppressed my sighs, — kept a guard on my eyes, — made a prisoner of my tongue, — and threw aside every tinge that bordered on the penfercfo; — I seemed’die happiest fellow in the world. As the greatest proof I can give of my obedience to your injundfions, I even went So far as to astow Suffolk opportunities of pleading his Suit t — but that was too great an effort to be Often repeatedmore especially as I began to think her aversion to him not quite so insurmountable as my Lord Mortimer supposed it. — Thus did 1 y: eld to a more experienced general; and what has it availed me? — Vile prophet! — “Lady Julia attached! — She conceals a passion for me, which, in spite of her vigilance, you discovered when you were in London /” — Vile
prophet! -- -- ^my Arabian Syphax would
make as good an oracle as thou dost. -- -- --
Oh! curse my Self sufficiency and arrogance,
B 3 which
i
6 MAS (U £ A D E S; or,
which caused me to lend an ear to the dear illusion that you adorned with Such elegant
Sophistry! — What a disappointment! -- --
Many instances could I bring to your view, that would put you out of conceit with your penetration; but the devilish remembrance of them wounds me more than a knowledge of them could your vanity : I will, therefore. Spare you and myself Some pain, by forbearing an explanation. — One kiss — one charming kifs I obtained, partly by accident, partly stratagem. — dhhe extasy I feel at refiecting on the bliss that happy moment besto' ’, is not to be told. — Montague, that kifs has Served me to live on many days. — Sweet girl I — the man who calls you his, will posfess joys So near those that heaven promises to give, that he will forget he is a mortal; and, when wakened from his delirium by the division of soul and body, only beg of Providence to make him as blessed in the next world as he has been in this. — That shall be osmond!
— By heaven — by everything most Sacred I Swear it! — If she will not be mine with her own consent, — if she still rejects me, -1 must carry her off; and, when once in my power, she will rejoice to accept of those terius she
has
  7
has So haughtily despised. — Never was there a more obdurate girl. She has a Soul So proud, that one would wonder how Nature could commit Such a blot in a work every
way else most perfect- -- -- as you
have done before, you will try to convince me of my mistake; — you will repeat what you Said in London, “She is as gentle as the breath of spring— — she is, I grant you, to all but her lovers.” — As you have never walked in that line, allow me to tell
you, she is tyranny itself. -- -- Diana (by
the Poets report) disdained not the sex more than Lady Julia does that part of it which
aspires to her affections. -- -- It was my
fond hope to conciliate them. I once thought I would even refuse her offered hand, if I was not assured she gave me her heart with it. — Convinced now that 1 cannot obtain it, -- still adoring her beyond
every earthly good, — and grown less delicate in my notions, from her unconquerable haughtiness, — I am resolved not to be completely disappointed, but endeavour to be as happy as I can, by making myfeif master of her person; — and, perhaps, in a
B 4 little
1
8
little time, she may not think her fate ' wretched in becoming the wife of osmond — for I harbour not an idea against her immaculate virtue. One fortnight more, thou dear angel! I devote to ashduity, to sighs, and Supplications; — if at the end thou art still inexorable, — why, then., an unlooked
for Scene awaits thee. -- To Say the truth,
my thoughts are rather deranged; — -1 have been dancing all night, -- not with Lady Julia, which is one Source of disturbance. On my begging for that honour, I was an swered that j!je was engaged to the Duke of Suffolk; but., if the Ladies changed partners, Jhe would readily give me her hand for part of the night. This being the cafe, iresolvedon playing the politician, and on not engaging her till after Supper, when I intended to detain her as my partner during the rest of the ball. It could not appear particular then, especially as I made it a point to dance constantly before with Lady Maria Harley. But the Devil, who owes me a grutch for not enlisting under his banners, frustrated my hopes. I did not dare let Lady Julia know my purpose. I have already dw'dl
ed
  9
f
ed pretty long on her disdain and cruelty: cast your eye over that paragraph, and you will easily guess my reason. However, in ^ Some measure to Secure her, I implored that she would after Supper favour me with a private interview in the presence of Lady Mortimer, with whom I had concerted the plan; and determined, if the fair one consented, to Seize the opportunity of painting a Second time the fervency of my pas sion, and, in Spite of her command “to be for ever filent on the fuhjeslp x.o\xr^t it with all the eloquence proper for the occasion. — She denied me, Montague, — actually denied me! — yet I should not have given up my request to the last moment, isshe had not, in my hearing, and with an intention to aggravate the mortification she had infiiclej, assented to become temple’s partner, tho’, when he offered, I put in my prior claim to that honour. 1 was disregarded. She presented him her hand. Saying, Jhe had thought to dance no more; however, fatigued as foe was, Jhe could not refuse him. 1 almost cursed the whole Sex as I turned from her abruptly. My steps mechanically moved towards the cotillon room, where she was
B 5 Soon
10
Soon to display the graces of her beautiful figure with the preferred Ternple. I found Lady Mortimer there, who, feeing me much disturbed, ashed the cause? I evaded a reply, till being urged to Speak, I answered“
“have no right to complain, my Lady. The man who Suffers the illusion of a passion to conquer his reason, and becomes a voluntary stave, deserves to be treated as the abjebl wretch he mas himself.”
“I Suppose Julia has refused your proposal, and our Scheme falls to the ground! — Well, be not discomposed— — have almost a mind to give you ample revenge, by divulging a conversation that passed between sone morning before you came down to
Windfor.’* -- - “1 entreat your Ladyship
would Sparc me; — I am heartily wearied of any Subject which treats of love."”
“I beg pardon, my Lord. Believe me I am glad to be Saved a disagreeable business, which nothing but my opinion of you, and your Supplications, should have induced me to undertake. Only permit me ho remind you, my Lord, that I never sought to make Julia the topic of our difcourle; —
you
0
  II
I
you always led to it: — and here break we off for ever on a Subject of which you are so tired. However, I admire my sister’s penetration and Spirit.” -- She was going
from me with great calmness, but I caught her hand. “Stay, dear Lady Mortimer! leave not in despair a miserable madman. Do but hear me, — hear how Lady Julia that merciless tormentor, has used me; and, instead of displeafure, I shall have your pity.” She Smiled, and condesceneled to listen while I related what I have already done
in this sheet regarding Lady Julia. -- -- -
When I finished, she replied, “One ftory is good till we bear the other. After I am informed of my sister’s motive for behaving as you have mentioned, I shall be able to give judgment and probably to deliver it in the words of Sir Roger de Coverley, — Much may he aid on both fidesp — Notwithstanding her jocularity, I did not escape receiving a very Smart lecture from her Ladyship, for fuffertng a passionate difpcfiiion to gain such an ascendency over meas to put reason and poutenefs to flight. 1 promised amendment; and Sued to be made acquainted with the conversation she had alluded to; but fbe
B 6 those
ja
ihose to deny me, as a punishment, she Said, for my impetuosity— — \ not help showing an affected indifference to Lady Julia, which, by the bye, I believe she hardly took notice of. I was also rather gallant to my first partner, hoping to excite her jea lousy; but the heart that is insensible to love, cannot admit any visits from jealousy : of course I gained nothing from my attention to Maria Harley, since neither love
nor jealousy occupied the bosom of Lady Julia. — -- Negligent as I appeared, I
never lost sight of mia diletta. 1 observed
%
her whisper Lady Mortimer; and, in a Sew minutes after, as she passed me, heard her sigh, and Saw her eyes Swimming in tears. J would have forfeited mine to have known the cause. She immediately retired, and returned no more. — Though I have watched for opportunities of conversing alone with Mortimer, I never could obtain any : he has studied to avoid me. You can easier imagine, than I describe, my Solicitude to know what he meant, the night I arrived here, in Saying, if he might judge from appearances, Julia is not Jo indifferent as we imagined, Would I could tell what ground he
had

had for his conjectures! Faith, I have been ready enough to adopt the opinion myself at times, when I have Seen that Specious, insinuating fellow, Suffolk, on his knees to her. I have found Some difficulty on Such occasions to curb pajfionate difpojt tion., according to Lady Mortimer. P'or example, — when I Saw them dance a minuet together not many hours ago, her admiration of him Was plain: she threw out all her attractions (and no woman ever possessed So many) to please him; — she looked and danced N most divinely. As he led her to her Seat, I heard him call her an angel,
-- -- i think you I could not with pleasure
have stabbed him to the heart?
Instead of Seeking repose, I shall directly dress myself, order my horsts, and, though it may be thought cruel to rouse Mortimer from his bed, where he has Scarce lain an hour. Summon him to accompany me in a ride; — then demand of him the questions ‘ he must resolve, and take his advice how to proceed. — For once, in compassion to my Sufferings, Twill be Selfish: — there is no enduring longer this life of uncertainty and misery,
14 M ASCLUERADES; or,
«
%
^
Sunday Sthree dclock,
I am returned, my dear Charles, Something easier than when I laid down my pen. - — 1 have opened my whole Soul to Mortimer; — I reproached him for his unkind distance; — I conjured him no longer to delay acquainting me with the reason he had for reviving my hopes at our meeting, and expressed great apprehension that his wishes for my Success had made him too Sanguine, and view things in a false light. Thus he replied:
“I should never have flattered myself, or you, into a belief of happiness, unless I had Substantial proofs to Support it. What those proofs are, I cannot reveal; — nor will you again alk me, when you are told that the confidence of another must be betrayed ere you can come at the knowledge you desire. — I certainly have evaded a tite d tfte with you, because I wanted to elude the very interrogation you have just nov made; and had great hopes that your pens tra
%
  15
netration and assiduity would have rendered it unnecessary to Seek an answer from me,
-- -- You complain of julia’s treatment; —
— are you Sure, osmond, there is no fault on your side You have never been explicit with her since you Saw her in London, you Say — was that well? Should you not have caught the first moment that offered, after my hint to you that I believed her not indifferent, to have discovered whether my judgement was erroneous, or you were really the happy man I thought you? In my opinion. Such tardiness. Such nonchalance bespeaks no very great depth of affection.”
“What could I do, dear Mortimer, when she would afford me no opportunity of making Such a discovery P If 1 hinted my attachment, she Silenced me with Scorn, or stew my presence. Last night I Solicited an interview; in the most arbitrary manner she refused” -- --
“On my Soul, I do not condemn her !’* “How, my Lord !”
“I do not indeed : your gallantry to Lady Maria Harley was So warm, that it leemed past a jest; and, faith, you must
have
16   gr,
have had good courage to expect a favourable answer from Julia to a request of the Sort, at the time you were making downright love to another in So public manner, ' — I have not exchanged six words with
o
Lady Julia since wc met at dinner yesterday; therefore am (upon my honour) ignorant whether she took notice of it: but your attention to your partner was So glaring, that I held it certain your affections were transferred to her, and never expected to have heard further from you on our present tiiemes’
“Did not your Lordship, on my alighting from my chaise last Monday, recommend to me to conceal my attachment to your Sister ^ Did you not enforce the injunc tion mth the most Solemn assurance that my happiness with her depend upon it? I could not engage Lady julia’s ear amidst a throng, without going in opposition to your advice; and only acted conformably to it, in blinding all around me by an affected assiduity towards Lady Maria. - Her person, every one thought, made an impreshon on me; or, at any rate, your family and my rivals will, in consequence of my particularity last
night,
  17
night, imagine, that I pay homage to beauty where ever I find it, and be the less sus picious, if they observe in future my attention to Lady Julia Herbert.”
“In recommending caution to you, I only meant that you should use it with those around you; and was certain Julia would have been made acquainted by Some method, that, however inconsistent it might Seem with your deportment, your heart was still hers. Had that been the cafe, I should have applauded your conduct last night; but, if she does love you, it must have been terrible to her amiable Soul to have been a stranger to the true situation of yours, and have Seen you lavish those douceurs on another you once assured her she only was entitled to from you. however, Suffer me
once more., osmond, to advise— — is thus: if you think you can attach yourself without much violence to Tady Maria Harley, pursue her: — she is handsome, well descended, accomplished; her fortune is three times Superior to julia’s; and, as you are resolved against the match your father proposes, her alliance will (in proportion to her money)
be
f
i8 MAS(TUERADI: S; or,
be more agreeable to the Duke than my sister’s.”
You are not generous. Lord Mortimer, thus to insult an unhappy man I — Good heaven! what unaccountable prejudices! — Could a little ridiculous levity with a silly girl, in which not a mention of love was made, cause you to judge So unworthily of the stability of my passion for Lady Julia? — But I understand you, my Lord;
- — you are but too ready to join the pemberton’s in desiring suffolk’s connexion • — his more powerful address you wish to Sacrifice me.”
“I am injured, osmond, by the Suspicion. I know your excellence; and, if you still love Julia as ardently as ever, 1 would Sooner See her yours than married to an Emperor— — upon my friendship; and, as a proof of it, I will this evening contrive a method that you shall Speak to her in private; and I will So warmly be your advocate, and Set matters on a right foot, that I dare pronounce you will go to rest with a lighter heart than you now are master of.”
Here the Subject ended. -- We took along
ride
i
 ; 19
ride to visit a little family which the mortimer’s raised from poverty and distress to competency and happiness. It consists of father, mother, and three daughters. The father was out on his farming business; the mother was shelling pease, in which she was (in an odd Sort of a way) ajfijied by the youngest girl; a Sweet little monkey, four years old, who was more studious to Scatter the work of her hands on the floor, than to accumulate the store her good mother was providing. The little urchin’s caresses, after the first half hour, delighted me So much, that I could Scarcely leave her behind me.
The eldest daughter was working scm.e beautiful embroidery for Lady Mortimer, who was at the pains of instructing her her selfin an employment which will ensure her independency, when she has the misfortune of loling her parents: — when finished, it is to be purchased by her Ladyship with a valuable gratuity. The Second Sister was exercising her needle on household linen. Everything in and about the house Seemed admirably clean, and rustidy elegant.
I cannot paint to you the grateful joy that glowed on each feature at the sight of
their
20
their benefactor, who, on his part, treated them with that respedlful affability which should ever be tne tribute from us to the very lowest virtuous female. There was also a paternal tenderness blended in his manner, that proved he was interested in their happiness.
We got Some breakfast prepared in an instant, and, after remaining a couple of hours at Welby farm, were about to return, when Jenny (the little cherub I have mentioned) caught hold of my hand, and desired 1 would not go till she had brought me Some roses. She Soon came back loaden with the fragrant burden : the most beautiful amongst them were inferior to the blooming tints of her cheeks. I pressed her in my arms, and ashed her to go home with me. “That I will!” she replied, turning up her pretty mouth to give me a kiss. But my invitation cost poor Jenny much uneasiness; for, when her mother interfered, and she found she could not accompany me, she cried and Sobbed So pite ousiy, that I was quite distressed: however, I at last pacified her, by leaving with her a trinket from my watch; and promising to
See
\
I
W H A T YO U WILL. 2 t
See her very Soon. — I am determined to take the charge of this child upon myself: I will have her well educated, and shx her in the world to advantage at a proper age. what pleasure shall I know in drawing from obscurity a beautiful flower, which
else
“Would waste its Sweetness in the desert air j"
and, by transplanting it to a more cultivated Soil, render it an honour to Society. Mr. and Mrs. Perrot are descended from good families; but a Series of misfortunes reduced them to the lowest ebb of affliction, which they must have Sunk under, but for the godlike humanity of Mortimer, who extricated them from ruin, and has placed them by their own choice in the station they now are. Their story is melancholy, and 1 have not time to give it — stis near four o’clock, and I am but half dressed.
— Ah, this evening! Montague'; -- -- -- what
will it produce? -- -- But away with de
sponc ency !• -- -
My bofom’s lord sits lightly on his throne, And an unaccustom’d Spirit lifts me above The ground with cheerful thoughts.” C— —
♦ »

12

I Saw Lady Julia a few minutes before we assembled at dinner. She looked more an angel, if possible, than usual: her eyes beamed with a bewitching softness; Iter cheeks were animated with a vermilion that glowed uncommonly resplendent, and Set off the Snowy whiteness of her shin; — her teeth, — her lips, — pearls and coral wore their resemblance. She was robed in white lutestring. Such genuine beauty, grace, and elegance, never were So perfectly blended in any obje(st as in her! — I gazed with rapture on her; and could have done So for hours, if her conscious eye had not met mine, and her lovely blushes chid my
too eager adntiration. -- -- She Seemed a
mountain nymph, encircled with the cestus of Venus.
The Ladies demanded of me, where I had pent the morning f Mortimer, without allowing me time, answtred, “Part of it
at
  23
at Mr. perrot’s.’’ His Lady, in a gay manner, reproached him for carrying me thither; and bid me not think of flirting with her favourite Kitty, who was too good a girl to he made unhappy: adding, “I know So accomplished a cavalier as you are, can easily make an impreshon on an artless girl of fourteen.”
“I am ignorant, ” returned Mortimer, “what effect his visit had on Kitty; but, I am Sure, in the course of our absence, he gave not a few pangs to the heart of a very pretty female, from whom he received the utmost encouragement that man could desire. — osmond, keep your own Secret, I insist. Munds the word; I never blabv They were very anxious to know the person; and receiving no Satisfaction from their host, turned to me, and overwhelmed me with a volubility of questions. “I will never forgive you, osmond, if you tell, ” cried the perplexing peer. To humour him, and to give a little more Subject for female curiosity to work upon, I rallied the pretty creatures, and evaded answering to the purpose, Dacre inquired whether Lady Maria har lay lived between this and ivdby farm?
“She
Am
t
“She does, ” replied Mortimer, with a Sagacious look at me, which comprehended much meaning. “Then, Ladies, you need interrogate no further !” exclaimed Pemberton. “I pity Lady Henry Marchmont extremely!” Said miss Charlotte Pelham. After a few Sarcastic Smiles, and as many witticisms (which, as they were directed to me, I could have Spared,) they dropped the topic. However, I shall at Supper explain the riddle; and, to Save Lady Maria from any ill natured censures, put an end to mortimer’s Secret, and inform them it was no other, than my little Jenny who obliged me with Such distinguished marks of favour. 1 must observe that Lady Julia seemed not at all desirous to know who the object was : she uttered not a word, and was wholly engaged in contemplating a miniature on her arm. Did I not know it to be her mother’s, I should have been devilishly uneasy.
I am waiting for a signal from Mortimer: he is to observe Lady Julia, and, the first moment he Sees her alone, accompany me to her presence. May he find Such a propitious one I
I am
  25
I am uneasy at Some marks of preference I have been honoured with from a Lady here, who, as she is every way deserving, merits a better fate than to bestow her affections on a man who cannot return them
■ -- -- Ha— — signal is given I more
of this subject another time — I go, — and
may Success attend me! -- Be still, thou
throbbing heart!. —
* ^ m
^ ^ ^ ^
Tweht o'chd.
Attend, Montague, whilst I impart to you the result of Lord mortimer’s last office of friendship. On joining him, I learned that Lady Julia, a quarter of an hour before, had left the company, and walked quite alone towards the wilderness. With eager steps we pursued her route; but' found our haste impeded by a Small gate over a canal, which was locked and deprived of its key; she. Sweet soul! no doubt, resting assured that she had Secured herself from molestation. — Who would not wade through
vol. IIL C the
/
26
the Hellespont, though the fate of Leander Swam before his eyes, to gain the sight of a fairer mistress than ever his Hero was? — However, we had no occasion to rish a similar catastrophe," since leaping could conquer the barrier to our access. The seat .was instantly performed; — and an hundred yards brought us to an alcove where Lady Julia was Seated. Her elbows rested on a Shall ornamental table; — her hands, which Supported her head, were clasped over her eyes; So that she Saw us not, till the very near approach of steps disturbed her from her position. — She looked up — Suddenly started on beholding us at her side, and was
precipitately retiring, when mortimer caught her by the hand.
“No, Julia !• — though you may sty with impunity from my companion, you must not from your brother. Here I detain you prisoner; nor shall you escape till we have Some conversation with you.”
“Ah, my Lord! — is this well done of you — thus to steal on my privacy ?”
“Pardon, Madam, my temerity !” cried I, casting myself at her feet: “the despair you have thrown me into has caused
it.
4
1
  27
it. — I come, dear Lady Julia, to express my love — my adoration of you once more, — and, if you still continue So inflexibly cruel, — to remove for ever from your sight, after this sinal interview, an ohmmous lover, — Your treatment is almost a conviction that you hold me deserving of the appellation. Ah! think what the idea costs me !” — — She appeared exceedingly embarrassed, — ^
frequently panted for respiration; her
colour went and came; — she could only articulate.
Rise, my Lord! — do not — pray do not kneel — I beg you.”
“1 cannot rise, Madam, till I obtain an acknowledgment of pity for what you have made me endure since I first dared to inform you of my unalterable passion — till I
“Stop, ” Said Mortimer, “and allow me to Speak.” — ‘‘ Not a word, my Lord, unless Lord Osmond quits his posture.” — I obeyed her, — bowed, — and threw myself against a statue for Support, almost as life less with fear and expectation as the stone on which I leaned.
“You were in an error, my dear sister, ” proceeded Mortimer, “concerning my
C % friend,
t
28 MASQUER ADES; OR,
friend, when he declared his affection for you : — you thought him engaged to Lady Henrietta, and dishonourable in addressing another. Since you left London, you have been undeceived, and are positively assured he was at liberty to offer you those vows which you believed wounded your delicacy to listen to. Now that the renigma is ended, attend once more to a repetition of them. If your heart knows no prior attachment, let me become an advocate for osmond. — Imagine not that I, mean he should owe your favour to my Solicitations! Far from it: my intention is only to prove to you, that he must be deserving of it, when I pretend to interest myself in his Suit, and answer for the fervency and constancy of his love. — If you admit to a place in your heart a man whose worth equals yours, your mother and Pemberton will gladly make you both happy by consenting to his proposals; and Caroline and I shall rejoice in Seeing you united. I am Satisfied my Julia will rise Superior to female artifice, and will deal openly and without reserve to a man of honour, who must the more adore her for her candour.”
I re
0

I resumed my place at her feet, — grasped her cold passive hand, — implored her compassion.) — and, if her heart was free, that she would bestow it on one whose existence depended on the possession of such a treasure“
“are too kind, my Lord, ’^ replied the dear girl, “in this flattering protestation of regard for me; — but Suffer me to Say, I cannot think you quite So sincere as my brother does. — Why should I consent to your Solicitations? Your father wishes you 'connected to another. It would be culpable in me to encourage your addresses, when they are in opposition to his desires — indeed, my Lord, you are wrong to ash it of me.’’,
I represented my father’s unreasonable command in the most touching manner — his little affection toward me. I regretted, for her Sake, that my fortune, independent of him, - was So inconsiderable; and honestly confessed, that I built on no expectations from the Duke, unless I married the Lady he chose. “Yet, ” added I, “as he plainly testifies no view to my felicity in the horrible union he wants to force me into, I hold myself free, by the law of Nature, to
C 3 Seek
20 MAS QUE R A D E S; or.
Seek for it in a connexion with the only woman upon earth I will ever marry. — Be assured. Madam, I should think no mortal under heaven So happy as the one before you, could I, at the expense of all the duke’s wealth, call you mine. — If I can be So blessed as to gain your affections — ah, Lady Julia! — a very little will Satisfy us; and what is wanting of the Superfluities of lise, will be more than compensated for
by the fervency of love. -- Yet, Madam,
I am ungenerous in this proposal! — too self interested perhaps! — Why should I attempt to be the invader of your heart, when a more distinguished rival, on whom beauty and fense have been lavish, — who offers you a princely fortune, — has the power of rendering you more completely happy? —
Forgive me. Lady Julia, — Suffolk -- -- Ah,
great God! — I cannot bear it — No! excellent as he is, - — he must not rob me of my
dearest hopes. -- -- You are silent — Speak I
conjure you — and let me know my fate.”
“Did I not say, my L ord, ” returned she, “that I suspected the sincerity of your professions? — I will be candid. I believe .Something of this very subject was hinted to
a par
  31
a particular object last night; — and, by what I can judge, was repeated this morning.”
“Good Heaven! what do you mean, dear Lady Julia ?”
“i.ady Maria, ” cried she, ” would never have bestowed so much encouragement O'ei one of your Sex, if she had not a foundation in your behaviour for it.”
Mortimer immediately understood that she alluded to what he had mentioned at dinner. In a few words he cleared up the matter; and informed her of the restridions he had laid me under in regard of my conduct towards heron the night of my arrival. He insinuated that my attention to my'part ner was an artifice of his directing, for which he had many good reasons to offer, if the time permitted; but, as it did not, begged she would be Satisfied in knowing that she should one day be informed and approve of them.
“And how. Lady Julia, ” cried I, “favour me with your Sentiments? — Am I to be the happiest, — or most miserable of men? — Like a trembling culprit — I wait the awful decision of my lovely arbitress.”
C 4 ‘‘ Thus.
32 MAS (LUERADLS; or,
“Thus then I answer, ” replied she: —
I am above disguise, — and will freely own, -- that the Duke of suffolk’s title, fortune, and accomplishments, make no other impression on me than of disgust; — and that, if my mother and Pemberton consent • — shall prefer even poverty with you to affluence and grandeur with another.”
I was So agitated with transport, that Speech was denied me for a few minutes i could only rest my head on the Snowy hand
I held.
“Julia, ” Said Mortimer, “how noble is this! — Thou art dearer to me, my admirable sister, than ever!” — What, osmond, — quite dumb !”
“Oh!” exclaimed I, “I am blessed beyond the power of utterance 1 — -- Ever
dearest — most generous of women! — be still kinder, and fancy those acknowledgments So due are paid you in my heart, which, overcharged with gratitude — with joy, — — cannot render me eloquent.”
“And now, my Lord, — I beg you will leave me, ” cried the angel.
“Not yet, my Julia !” replied I; “do not command it — My senses are confused;
and
  ^.3
and I can hardly credit the reality of what has passed. — Once more strike my ravished ear with the melody of that voice; — once more repeat you are not indifferent to your osmond !’*
“How can I more plainly convince you of it than I do? — No,, my Lord, — indeed I am not — And now leave me.”
“Not till you have ratified this assurance, * returned Mortimer, “of which I have been a witness,. by granting an embrace. 1 insist on it, else I shall not think it binding.” I stretched forth my arms, and pressp CD to my boffom the blushing, reluctant fair one — from her lips I obtained a kiss— — Such a moment! — Montague,, even you must have envied me..
Mortimer and I retired. — I poured out my thanks to him for being the chief instrument of my felicity; and easily discovered that his frjendly Soul Sympathised in my joy, though he refused the Sentiments of gratitude I expressed,
I whispered Lady.mortimer that I wm
, the happieji of my sex“
“dare Say my officious Lord has been accessary to it!” cried she.
■ C 5 « He
34 M AS QUER ADES; or.
He has indeed !” I answered. “To him am I indebted for more than lise.”
“And I will assuredly chide him for it, ” replied her Sprightly Ladyship. “By giving you more than life, he has deprived me of more than mirth. I was in expectation of Seeing many humorous freaks from the nonsensical perplexities of two lovers, who feared to declare their passion for each other, and were endeavouring to hide it, when they both wanted to disclose it. — Indeed, my Lord, you have behaved like a very — ■ ■ fenftble nobleman !” — Lady Julia was rather grave all the evening; yet I am a bad physiognomist, if she was not happy. My extasy I could hardly restrain; but I apprehended adding to her Sweet confusion, by paying her more than common attention, — therefore avoided it.
I am now going to bed, — not to steep for joy will as effectually banish it from my eyes, as a contrary emotion has done for many nights back. — Can it be possible, my dear Charles, that, after all my anxiety, torture, and despair, I should be So amply rewarded? — Am I in my senses, and find it
a truth that I am the elected of Lady Julians
choice?
4
 ; 3s
choice.? — Both are fasts— — would prefer poverty with meto affluence and grandeur with another I — Thoiet were the enchanting
words. -- -- 1 had her covered with blushes
in my arms — I kissed her — That Seal of constancy was mutally given. — Delightful refiedtions! — Under the canopy of heaven there exists not at this moment So blessed a mortal as your Henry.
^ * Hi
^ * * * * * ^ *
mondaytwelve o'clock.
1 never told you that vre adt plays here, and have had our first representation very
well performed. -- - — I cannot now enter
into a circumstantial account of the theatre. Scenery, dresses, or players; all of which are far better than you can conceive. Last Thursday it was determined mia carifflma should next Monday night appear in sigis munda, and lintancred: this information is analogous to what I am about to Speak of presently.
Lady Julia appeared not this morning till most of the company had assembled to
C 6 breakfast
%
»
36 MAS (LU E R A D E S j o k,
breakfast (for the greater number of the party chuse a regular table, in preference to having tea, chocolate, ic. ic. without method in the coffee room, or their own apartments). She entered leaning on Mist edgcumb’s arm. Sir Thomas Walpole told he looked like the goddess of love. “My Julia has had pleasant dreams, ” Said Pemberton: “cheerfulness once more plays upon her features.” “How happy was the object of those dreams!'” cried Suffolk— — “indeed 1” reechoed Several voices.
“I am ignorant what those dreams were” ” missedgcumb; “but I believe Lady Julia liked them not, for shs has been up a long time. She came into my apartment; • disturbed me earlier than I approved of; — and has teased me with hearing her repeat the first part of sigis munda So frequently, that I shall be able to Speak in no other language all day. I may be apt to exclaim, every now and then;, involuntarily,
“Ah, woods I where first my artless bosom learn.’d The sighs of love” -- --
and, perhaps, again forget myself; and;,
without
  ^
knowing a Subject for it, run intc? this eulogium,
“If virtue were to wear a human form.
To light it with her dignity and flame,
Then, Softshing, mix her Smiles and tender' graces j
Oh, she would choose the person of my tan cred!”
Julia Seemed to feel So well what she expressed, that the impreshon it made on me cannot be forgotten.”
The divine girl was confused, and answered miss Edgcumb, that Jhe would get another teacher in future to say her le£ons to, fmce Jhe had very little patience, and exposed her folly in so public a manner. I proposed rehearsing after breakfast; — she blushed, and declared herself not perfesi enough for that yet.
If (as I have reashn to think) our yestcr day’s^rdi rcijfement has effected this alteration in Ladyjulia, can anything be So grateful to my heart -- -- -- Sweet angel! — how I
adore her! — The youngest Mil's Pelham desired to take a ride, as the morning, she Said, was pleasant and cool; and bid me propose a party for it, provided I was one of it my
felftf
3^ masq.uerad.dsi or,
self. I consented directly, you may sup pose; and told miss Charlotte that I doubted not but Lady Julia, who was fond of the exercise, would accompany us. No, no cried she, “we will not disturb her from her study: her Ladyship is Seldom in the humour for bestowing any time on her play, and we’ll not be accessary to her negledling of it.” — Lady Julia Smiled, and, with a little meaning I am Sure, replied, “Do not be afraid; — I shall not go. Since one memorable day, that, but for Lord osmond, I should have been killed by a fall from my horse, my courage has entirely forsaken me; and it will be one while ere I can prevail ‘on myself to ride again.” — “Well, I will Supply your place, Julia, ” cried miss edg ciimb; ” but, as I am very timorous, and Lord osmond very expert at Sreeing dif arejfed damfeh from perilous disasters, I put myself under his protection. — My Lord, you will be my beau.?” I bowed and promised to be more, watchful of her, than the hesperian dragon of the golden fruit. — The 1.adits retired to equip themsclves; and I to Scratch a few lines,
--
k
/
  ^
** ***** *^
*
% ^ ^ ^
Two dclocky Tuesday Morning,
I have had no opportunity of Speaking to Lady Julia, but in the presence of a third
person. -- ^I did hope to have taken my
Seat behind her at the play we Saw enacted a few hours ago; but, whilst I was assisting Lady Caroline Denley into the first row of the box (who has the misfortune to be a little lame from a Sprained ankle, — an event that happened Some years back), Seymour anticipated me, and took the place I had designed for mysclf when I handed in Lady Julia.' — You can guess at my disappointment. I had looked on it as certain that
I
I should engaged Lady julia’s attention during a good part of the performance; but the fellow crossed me like my evil genius. I endeavoured by a look to convince her of my mortificationshe was cruel enough to laugh at it.. The Seat I had been robbed of was well worth any effort I could make to regain it — I went behind the Scenes, and found Sir James.
u Westbrook,
$
^ MASCLUERABES; or,
Westbrook, it would be humorous enough, ” cried 1, ‘‘ to inveigle Seymour from the situation where he has So adroitly fixed himself; in which he is exulting most unmercifully over his brethren who wish to approach the Nonpareil he adores.” “I took notice, ” replied he, “that he was grinning With pleasure like a monkey, and bowing twenty times in a minute to Lady Julia, when I cast a glance into the box
-- -- -- but -- a — prithee, my Lord, why not
let the poor devil be gratified? It is So Seldom that he is — though, perhaps — a — I beg pardorr, — Lord osmond thinks he could with more ardour breathe impassioned Sounds into the ear of the beautiful Julia, -- - “excuse mv -- -- -- -- or probably
your Lordship has a billet doux or -- -
a copy of verses to deliver secretly— — she is a Sad perverse girl — she Sometimes refuses to read, — or even to accept of either; as you and I can testify from ocular demonstration, you know,, my Lord. — “A truce with your raliery, my good west brcxok, and get Seymour away, ”
‘‘ Let me see, — how can it be done? — Do you go back, — I will make out Something to Say, and lend for him.”
Ip
'I * ^
 ; 41
In a few minutes after I entered the box, one of the attendants appeared, and Said, he came with an entreaty from Sir jamesy that Lord Seymour would allow him to peak with his Lordship for five moments. His reply was, “Do my baife mains to his Honour and tell him — I value my place too highly to quit it, was even his happiness dependent on Seeing me just now; and I know him Sufficiently to suspe<5t, that he means no more than to make me relinquish it-
-- -- Servant retired; — he turned to
me, “Have I not answered him well, osmond ?**
^ ^ ^ ^ ^
^ * m
One dcloa*
I am just come from rehearsing with Lady Juliaon my Soul, Montague, she is more than mortal! — In every feature, — in every movement, - — in every word, — there is a Something celestial breaks forth, which no
daughter of Eve ever before possessed.
“The mere rhapsody of an infatuated
lover! ” you cry. -- -- If So, every Spedlator
this
42 MAS Q.U ERADES; or,
this morning was an infatuated lover; for their Sentiments tended to the Same point,
though expressed differently. -- -- 1 must
for the hundredth time repeat, What a form is hers I — What graces play about her I — What a sweetness of voice I — Yet with me these are Secondary objects : her Soul is fpotless as the new fallen Snow; -- her temper milder than the vernal breeze; -- her heart a faithful representative of the great benevolent being’s who created her, — merciful to all that stand in need of it, — yet firm as adamant where firmness is a virtue.
-- -- -- -1 was struck at the first sight with
her beauty, and Sighed to poffess it; -- but an intimate acquaintance with this loveliest work of heaven, has rendered me, not more indifferent to her external perfection, but So much captivated with those excellencies of the mind which she owns, that, were she even to lose the first, and become as plain as she is now charming, I would still pant with desire unspeakable to call her mine.
Lady Caroline Denley has imparted to me a tale concerning this admirable girl, which 1 will give you.
Lady Pemberton carried abroad with her
the
  43
the daughter of a poor tenant of my lord’s in Hampshire, who had a numerous family. She took great pains with the girl, which she thought well rewarded; for, to all appearance, Fanny had imbibed very fully those ieffons of redbitude and piety that her good Lady had given both by precept and example. On their return to England, the family went down to pemberton’s seat near Southampton, where, in six weeks after. Lady Pemberton discovered that this girl had an intrigue with the steward, who was a married man, and who had till then preserved a fair charadber. The vile wretch was immediately discharged from his employ, and Fanny Sent home to her parent’s, with an account of the criminality of her condudb, and a desire that flee might never more presume to approach persons whose kindness to her Jhe had recompensed so ill. — Her ladyship’s difpleasure extended to the whole family. — Fhere you and I must think her very blameable; but there are many that would find it easy to excuse the effedb of Such a shock on one, whose affection for the girl was great, and who felt keenly the disappointment of beholding her in her true
colour.
r
%
44 MAS Q, U E R A D E S 3 or,
colour, thereverse of what she thought her. — When Lady pemberton’s wrath feerried a little appeased, Lady Julia interceded with her mother, not to abandon a miserable family, rendered yet more wretched by this worst of all calamities. She commanded her to be silent on the Subject; and., as an example to her other dependents., declared Jhe would never heflow the leajt notice on Fanny or her conneffions.
Lady Julia went privately to the farmer’s, and found the girl an object of real com pashon. She remonstrated with her in a Soothing manner; — exhorted her to repentance; — and convinced her of the atro ciousness of her fault, which, with tears of remorse, on her knees, the poor creature abjured for ever. Lady Julia imparted her mother’s determination to them as gently as possible. She recommended to the old people to remove from a place, where unluckily the melancholy tale had become too public; and advised their going into Lincolnshire, where Lord Mortimer has a noble estate, whom she promised to prevail on to write to his steward to let the farmer
become one of his lordship’s tenants, at
as
>
W H AT YOU WILL. 45
as easy a rate as would be necessary for his limited circumstances. She gave them fifty guineas, to enable them to undertake With courage their long journey, and to settle themselves with comfort in a new habitation. She bid them not to despond, or treat with harshness the unhappy Fanny, whose feelings amply revenged on herself her unfortunate transgression. She promised to Supply them half yearly with the same Sum out of her own private allowance, till Lady Pemberton should be as sured, by the exemplary life Fanny would in future lead, that her Soul was become as alienated from vice as it had been from innocence. — They were profuse in bleshngs on their lovely young benefadtressfanny fell at her feet; — with inarticulate words implored of heaven to let her never Jland in need of any part of that comfort she so sweetly adminijlered to an almoji broken heart! — She begged that it would also reward adequately her charming hadf s unparalleledgood ^ nefsl~ -- st Sunk on the ground, — and fainted.
The parents, who had till this fatal mif idemeanor tenderly loved their daughter,
feared
%
46
feared they would never bring her back to life. Lady Julia assisted to recover her, and left them not, till she had made the father and mother vow, that no reproach, no unkind look, should ever be thrown on Fanny; — till she had Seen her cordially embraced by both; — and a melancholy com posure take place, on the countenance of the latter, of that horror and despair which marked her features at her entrance.
Lady Julia entreated Lord Mortimer, who came down the day after, to write into Lincolnshire, that a very honest old man (whose family was large) wished to become his tenant; and begged him to give orders that his steward would befriend him as much as possible. Mortimer was happy to oblige her, and did as she desired immediately. The farmer, his wise, and children, arrived in Lincolnshire, where they Sound the steward, ready to do them every good office. They procured a tenement Suitable To their circumstances; and lived with convenience, in a most edifying manner, on Lady julia’s generous donations. By industry the old
man acquired an equivalent Sum to her first
six
m
\
  47
X months payment, and very shortly he rebled his income. When his young pa roness went down, on her sister’s marriage, D Mortimer hall, she contrived to See the imily, and express her approbation at their ondudt. The farmer told her that their ory was quite unknown in the neighbourhood; 'that they were rejpefled by ali -- and to her )ere indebted for the happiness they enjoyed. le also informed her, that a young man., of n excellent charafier, had taken a liking to nnny, and ajked his consent to marry her.
And what did you Say to him, my good •iend V cried Lady Julia. “Why, my .ady, I evaded giving my consent; for I link my poor girl ought to live Single. I lerefore answered, that I did not know whe her my daughter would choose to marry, Jince le was well convinced how little her mother nd myself, with such a charge of children’, mid spare her services. He immediately pplied to Fanny: her reply was, foe could ot leave her parents in their narrow situa 'on; and, as she was a help to them, was efolved never to gain new conneffions, but to ')end her life in rendering them every tender see in her power. She thanked the farmer
for
X
48 MASQ.UERADESJ or,
for his goodwill towards her, hut begged him to seek same woman worthier of him than Jhe was, and to he jatisjied with her determination“ “was he Satisfied with it “Oh no, my Lady! — he was very miserable; nay, he is just as much So now; — he still continues to follow Fanny; — and, troth, it grieves my heart to hear him fetch Such deep sighs, and see him look So wretched.” Lady Julia applauded the delicacy of their notions; and asked the girl, if [he liked the farmer “Ah, my Lady!” returned she, “I will not deny, that — if I were still innocent — I would be very happy in chusing Such a husband.” Lady Julia told her, If she had an affection for him, and he was So much attached to her, she thought her best way would be to Summon up courage, and tell her story plainly and honestly to the young man, and then let him judge whether he could be Satisfied to receive her hand So circumstanced as she was. She bid Fanny to consider well first, how critical Such a proceeding would be. If he was a man of honour, though he declined, marrying her, he would hold himself bound
to keep the confidence she reposed in him
invio
  4^
inviolable; but whether he was So, was the point. And next she must weigh well in her own breast, whether she loved him Sufficiently to expose Such a Secret to his knowledge— — — recommended to her repeatedly, to deliberate on the matter very thoroughly before she took any step 5 and to rested:, also, if he should be hurried away by his passion, and after Such a deposit take her for his wife, whether she could bear, in any ill tempered mood; to be reproached by him for the very fault she had So ingenuousiy confessed before the ceremony : — — a circumstance that probably would not happen; yet, in her opinion, she must look on the dark side in So important a constict, and judge if her nature could endure the worst that might befall her. — But, at any rate, she told fanny, she must not entertain an idea of deceiving the farmer by marrying him without first relating the whole affair to him, be the consequence what it might.
The girl, after consulting her heart, re solved to divulge the Secret to her lover. — ■ He admired her principles, and liked her the more tor her candour. — No objections
vol. III D j g
50
* ' remained; — they married, — and Lady Julia
presented them with a hundred pounds, and promised, by debarring herself of Some trifling expenses, to Send them as much more at the end of the winter. She was as good as her word. Lady Caroline Denley went into Lincolnshire early in the Spring, for a fortnight or three weeks; and Fanny received the Sum from the hands of Lady caroline’s woman, who was enjoined Secrecy by the generous donor in delivering ir, but was ignorant of the cause.
Fanny was agitated at this fresh proof of her amiable young lady’s remembrance; — and, as Mrs. Pain was about to deparr, she took her hand, and begged to be heard, whilst Jhe repeated a little htjtory which would demonjlrate that the soul of Lady Julia was as beautiful as her person. The good domestic listened with attention, whilst she related the preceding narrative, and joined her tears of admiration to fanny’s at Such tincorrimon humanity. — Mrs. Pain begged to be allowed to reveal what she had uttered to her Lady. By all means !” she answered. Add, also, if you please, Madam, that Fanny and her husband are as happy a
couple
# /
  51
V
: ouple as ever were united; and implore Lady Caroline to join your and my prayers : o the Almighty, that he may bless, here ind hereafter, the most virtuous, — the most gentle, — the most compashonate of her Sex! — for Such is Lady Julia Herbert.”
Well, Charles! is not this a corro derating proof that I am not mistaken in : he mind of my fair niistress i— — I leave ou to draw your own comments on the ibove recital. Satisfied that they must be /ery much in her favour.
1 gave you a hint of my being So unsortu' late, I will call it, as to be distinguished iighly by a female guest of my Lady morti ner’s. You will excuse my divulging her lame; — nor must your creative imagination ‘ndeavour to Supply one; Soryou would un ioubtedly be wrong, as the Lady is unknown o you : — you never even heard of her, I am. Lire. She contrived, Some hours ago, to Dut a billet into my hand, unseen by any : reature, which I here tranferibe.
“Can the Sensible heart of the gallant Lord osmond be ignorant of the impression
re has made on the Soul of -- -- -. Ah; my
Lord I violent indeed must be that love,
D z which
I
i
5a MAS (LU E R A D E S; o r,
which causes me thus to overstep the bounds of modesty, and leave mysdf at your mercy! — But you are a man of nice honour — Same loudly Speaks it — and are Superior, I am convinced, to the meanness of triumphing over misery which you have occasioned.
■ -- Yes, my Lord, I love.~lady Henrietta Marchmont -- ah, how that name
grates my ear I — will she be your wife, my Lord? — Forbid it, heaven! — Your heart cannot incline to her — but a father’s harsh command may be equally fatal to my hopes. — I am in despair — Keep me not in sus pense, my Lord; — and oh! — if you have the least humanity in your nature, — let me not see you particular in your attention this day to Maria Harley.”
Flattered as I must be by this unmerited partiality, I had been more delighted, had she made me the confident of her passion for one of my free companions. — With what pleasure would I have Served her!
■ — As it is, - I am Sadly embarrassed! — a painful talk indeed, to tell one of the lovely Sex that her affections are bestowed oh a man who cannot return them! — My compassion is greatly excited for the fair object

'N.
  -53
jet to whom I am So much obliged; but my honour is concerned to put her out of doubt.
I will take an opportunity of informing her, that I am under an engagement that binds me as firmly to another, as if the nuptial tie had passed between us: — I will not Say to whom; but leave her ta imagine that Lady Henrietta is the person.. ' Things are not ripe yet for a disclofure; and I would as Soon trust a bird with a cat, as this jealous woman with the knowledge of my loving in Secret Lady Julia. — Writing must prevent much confusion, and Save a multitude of questions,, not So convenient to be answered at prescnc! — To it then I.
♦ » * ft «
I have written, and will wait a favourable moment to present my letter. I have an ' awkward affair to go through, faith! and, I will answer for it, you are enjoying a hearty laugh at my perplexed situation— — Souville! — I am late, do you say? — Indeed So I am !^ — I must dress diretflly. — We are all to dine atl^ady Maria harley’s;, and, forgetting the distance of Boughton
D 3 Grange,
4
54 mas(tueradesj or.
Grange, or that Such a place was bn the globe, should have continued writing much longer, but for his necessary interruption. That you may not be ignorant of my hap piness, I will Seal my packet, afnd dispatch it directly.
Adieu, dear Montague! — If this finds you at somerville house, tell your louisa in your own method, that I admire her much.
Surely I shall catch one lucky moment this day to renew the Subject: nearest my heart, to my much loved Julia! — Since last Sunday I have been through compulsion Silent on it. — Adieu again I
Osmond.
. • •
• P
/
I «
  55 ISO Lady Louisa syonev.
s
%
7 vindfor.
But little should I deserve the friendship of my Louisa, did I longer defer acquainting her, that my Lord Osifiond, last Sunday evening, accompanied by lord Mortimer, stole upon me very unexpetstedly, and cleared up all past inconsistencies So well, that I consented to look upon him as a lover— — louisa, could you have Seen him at the time -- with what ardour — tenderness— — Submission — he pleaded his passion- -- you have Seen the despair and 1 love his eyes expressed — and the conflicting emotions that overpowered his whole form — you must have been absorbed in compassion
— in admiration !........Yes, my friend.
Lord Osinond is the accepted lover of your Julia. — I know no happiness equal to what that thought affords me; for it proves, I must be convinced that his soul is worthy of its habitation, or, alluring as the latter is, -- and charmed as 1 confess 1 am with it, — I
D 4 would
56 MASSTUERADES; o r,
would not be the wife of osmond on any account. louisa, I boast not of more heroism than I could have exerted : — nay, my past rcfusal of him (though I loved him beyoncf conception), when I supposed he acted un wcrihily, verisies the assertion— — write in a hurry, as I promised to be a performer presently in the concert room.
We are just returned from Boughton grange, where we passed a most agreeable day. Lady Maria was lively and pleasing; — but I observed that Lord osmond took less notice of her than usual — I was Sorry for it, fearing he thought my temper jca. lous, and that I should be hurt at his gallantry towards her. Charlotte Pelham watched every movement of his eyes — they seemed to avoid hers : however, once at dinner they met, and a deep blush overspread his cheeks. A looked at her, and perceived the Same Suffusion on hers.; — Poor girl! I hope, for her own Sake, she will not forget the delicacy of the Sex, and lower herself by any advances in the marquis’s opinion. — I fear nothing on his side; — he is all truth, generosity, and fidelity.
Whilst we were in the garden after tea.
Lady
«
  5, 7
Lady Mortimer, Lord osmond, and myself,, a trio, and Separated from the rest who were all forming parties of a similar sort. We turned, by caroline’s desire, into a large kind of labyrinth that she admired much. He took my hand, and kissed it. “Shall I reproach my Julia, ” cried he, “for having with design avoided me. these two
days -- -- Indeed, it was cruel— — had So
little time allowed me last Sunday to express my love — my happiness— — thanks — that 1 have, looked with impatience for “each, coming minute, hoping it would prove more fortunate than the past; but fiow^ great my disappointment, when it arrived and brought with it new obstrudlions to the felicity I sighed for l— — you not: purposely, contrived it — Pray tell me !” “No, my Lord.” “Amiable Lady Ju -- lia! how Soothing to my heart is that an -- Swer! Your kind condescension, Madam,, is bestowed on a man who would hold }oii< dearer to his Soul — who would respedt you i in a Superior degree for it, — were it poshble; — but my passion cannot encrease — it is ar~ rived, at. the utmost height — and apurer,,
5, • or.
f
f
/
58 MAS ecu E RAD ES; or,
or more lasting one, never filled the breast of mortal 1’^
“Never filled the hreafi of mortalp repeated Caroline; “that is Saying a great deal! Why now, was not petrarch’s pashon Something beyond yours, think you, my Lord r”
“By all that is Sacred, no !” returned he. “Petrarch Worded the description of his in a manner that I dare not hope even to imitate; but his Laura was not more adored than osmond’s Julia. -- -- -- Sofar I will allow
we differ : — he expressed content at Seeing the woman he felt So much for, the wife of another; and his writings give us to understand, that he wished for no other happiness than what he possessed in beholding — in hearing — in being near her. I cannot refine So far upon the passion — I would not live to See this hand (and he again pressed it to his lips) the property of any man but the one who is now thus blessed; and Sweat to you the ultimity of my wishes is to receive it, with my Sweet mistress’s vow of mutual attachment at the altar.”
y Julia, why do you not Speak V cried
she.
I
k —
/
t
  5^
she. “Lord, how oddly you take, your fwaips protestations ?- — — Psha! — blushing lb foos ishly! — Thank him in nice chosen expressions — A long, well turned period of acknowledgment will be more acceptable to him than those” — — Lord osmond interrupted her, and declared she was inhuman.
“I beg you will be quiet, ” ’ answered Carol ine. “Tonne have made me as fubser vient to your present purpose, as the monkey did the cat; and shall I not reward myself for the disagreeable situation I am in? — Come, Julia, I wait your answer with great impatience. It must be an adnsirable one after studying it So long! — My Lord osmond cannot blush, I believe; or I would endeavour to add as much rouge to his natural complexion, as I have done to yours. — Ah, Heaven be praised! here comes Westbrook; and he shall relieve me from the embarrassment of being Spedator to a love scene.”
Sir James drew near — I was rejoiced at it; for my. sister’s rallery Served but to render me more awkward. “Lady Mortimer, ” Said he, “come this way with me 1 have a
D 6 curious
Co M AS Q, U E RAD £ S; or,
curious anecdote to tell you, which I have this moment made myielf master of — Oh Such a dhcoverylet me hear it also, 1 beg !’* exclaimed I. “You must pardon me, Lady Julia, ’’ replied he: “your curiosity is absolutely intolerable I — God help the poor man whose luck it may be to call himself your husband. The deuce a Secret must he expect to keep from your knowledge ^could you believe, my Lord, that one night, at a ball, she was very near drawing half a Score of us into a quarrel with her brother, by Seeking to know a jest not So proper for a female ear to listen to — and the artful way she chose to be informed of it, was to pretend to vindicate Lady Henrietta Mar” — -- -- --
“Who, Sir ?” demanded osmond with feigned impatience. — The other, assumed an affected terror“
“Henrietta Mar— — — will helmina — Carolina — a — I really forj^et her
i ZD
Other names, my Lord — Poor Julia often complains that her memory is bad — she forgets them too, no doubt! — don’t you, my amiable cousin ?” making me signs at the time not to Speak.
Sir
—. V ^

t
W H A T Y O U W I L L sir
Sir James, my dear louisa, is certainly rro stranger to Lord osmond’s inclinations. He led my sister Some yards before us, and gave him an opportunity of renewing the topic he Seemed anxious to be upon, without any constraint. I was less confused after Caroline left me; but do not you fup pose that I was too, unreserved in my answers to the Marquis, from having no wit ness to what I uttered. Our walk was continued for near an hour, in which Space we consulted on the best method of imparting to Lady Pemberton and the Duke of Westmoreland (for that I insisted on) the situation of our hearts : but we came to no absolute determination how the talk should be performed. As the time I mentioned expired, we heard voices approaching us. Sir James and Caroline stopped; and when Sophia, Charlotte Pelham, the Duke of Suffolk, and Several others,, were in sight, my sister had hold of my arm, Westbrook was at my side, and Lord Ofmond. at hers: So there can be no doubt but that Sir James is in the Secret. I am glad of it: he is Sensible — has much affeiflion for me I am
Sure; and his conduct proves that he thinks
Lord
62 MASCLUERA.DES; or.
Lord osmond capable of making she happy. He Said not a word to me of the Marquis — he has really delicacy; and, what is uncommon in So lively a genius, can deprive himfeif of a laugh to avoid giving pain to another. Did he not think me attached to the amiable Henry, he would have been very teasing about the clandestine appearance things wore.: — And now I must obey the Summons that Mournies brings me, -- -- -- Adieu, my excellent friend!
; r > V
, ^ i. ^.
Julia Herbert.
"* * '
K, «
\
- ' >
‘s
■%
«
*
%
* V ' *
V ^
YOU WILL. 63
\
^0 Sir Charles Montague.'
Windsor Friday.
I Have never pretended to give you an exact journal of the pastimes that each day produces here. I write of those circumstances only which immediately happen during the course of my letter; and, that, you may know in Some measure how we go on, keep it open for three dr four days.
T his was the method I think I observed in my last, and mean to continue it whilst my correspondence exists from hence. How long that may be is uncertain; for my dul cinea Speaks of hurrying me to town to ask my father’s consent to address her : — a consent I shall never obtain. -- No matter; '
she must be mine without it. -- -- If I was
not lazy, I should present you with a full account of z.ftte champetre we had last Wednesday. 1 will only tell you that it was in character with the elegancy, the superbness of mortimer’s taste; that the weather was delightful; the dresses mostly well chosen;
the
* t
64 masqiuerades;, osv
the company wonderfully pleased: — thatj, by his and my agreement, Westbrook danced with Lady Julia, — I with Miss Edgcumb' - — and the consequences answ^red the wishes of both — he frequently engaged my partner in conversation — I was not backward in as* fiduity to his; — So that, in fact.. having the appearance of particularity, I .was just as happy as if rnia bella Jtdia had. engaged to give me her hand for the night.. Ifhtpartie quaree was never asunder— — a delicious evening! — Ishall ever remember. it with delight..
I have discovered the state of my heart to Westbrook.: my confidence gave him pleasure. He assured me he had long Seen my passion,, hoped no obstacle would, prevent my union with his charming cousin..
“Allow me to tell you. Lord osmond, ’* cried, he,. “that in Julia herbert.you will poffess a treasure more valuable than I can find words to express it— — and you alone, ” he flatteringly Said “deserve her.. And now I shall be as sincere with you.. For years — nay, before 1 well knew the meaning of the word — I loved the angelic girl — she was dear to me. as the vital blood
that.
\
 ' 65,
that warmed my heart; and the idea of lor Sing her was torture. I Saw plainly she beheld me only with esteem — cold esteem! I did not dare to tell her of my Sufferings — I was even afraid, to betray them to her —, but under an assumed gaiety concealed the anguish of my soul. I attended my aunt to England, and revived with Colonel Elliot the intimacy that had Subsisted between us at Rome. Almeria remained in Paris — he knew her not — and was then no lover. He discovered my attachment, and questioned me about it — I acknowledged the justness of his penetration. He reashned with me on the absurdity of cherishing a pashon for one, whom I averred I had not the remotest expectation of ever being nearer allied to. He frequently repeated his lectures, and admonished me to wean my sclf from her — to exert my philosophy— — sink the whining, infatuated boy, into
the reasonable man. -- -- 1 left her for three
months, and, when I was to behold her after that tedious absence, prepared my heart to meet her as one who in a short while would become the wife of Lenox; for in that Space of time she had consented
to.
66 M ASQ.UERADES; or,
to the persuasions of her brother and uncle, and engaged to give him her hand, — Angela sought in her behalf, and Saved her from a fellow not worthy of her, and one whom lam Satisfied she never loved. — Ah! osmond, how Spiritedly did she behave on his disniffion! — — But idigress After that awful interview my mind became every day easier — I had almost conquered my weakness( ( to love a beautiful, virtuoiis girl is one), when, to complete the victory, I cultivated an acquaintance with the amiable miss Edgcumb, who, by engrossing my friendship entirely, obliterated my pashon for one object, and made me Sensible that I could love another. Pemberton feels not more fraternal assertion for Julia than I do -- -- her felicity is dear to me; and I shall think it Secured, my Lord, in your arms.” I begged him to inform me what he i na gined would be jthe Sentiments of Lady Pemberton and hex Son, when they were told that I was the lover of Lady Julia He paused — “Speak, my dear Westbrook, ” cried I : “they wisn for suffolk’s connexion Swell know — have I not much to apprehend V
“We
s
'%
%
  67
“We will not be uneasy, ” replied he, by Surmising disagreeable events. I never could anticipate misfortunessin my life; nor will I begin on this occasion. But, were 1 Lord osmond, I should be in no hurry to give up, or encrease, my present happiness — I should be Satisfied for a few weeks, in the Society of my mistress, and in knowing that I was beloved by her — I would employ my time in improving her renderness So far, as to create in it a powerful advocate for me, if things should grow desperate, and I find it expedient to pro pose to her a precipitate flight northwards. This plan would I piirsue : if you have a better, inform me of it; and in whatever refpecst I can be Serviceable to your lord ship, you shall find me at your devotion.” I expressed my obligation to him— — he Spoke like an oracle, and in a manner quite consonant to my inclinations; but that my following the line he marked out, would depend entirely upon Julia, since, if I Saw, her distressed at the concealment of my addresses from her mother or my father, I must put an end to it, by immediately avowieg my passion to them both.
You
ea M AS (LUERADES; of,
You may be desirous to hear the result of my letter to the kini fair one I mentioned in my lash I had^no opportunity of. giving it till the evening, when all the company assembled in the garden, I placed myself at her elbow — she dropped behind, knowing my intention; and, as Soon I could take the liberty unperceived, I raised her hand to my lips, — put into it the paper, — and thanked her for the honour she had conferred on a man whose gratitude was adequate to the favour he had received, but whose destiny had prevented him from forming the least idea of profiting of the happiness she generoussy offered him. I begged her to think me worthy of her friendship, though I was not entitled to her love — to think me Sensible of the obligation I owed her— — to think that 1 Suffered inexpressibly at being necessitated to Speak in that style to one, whom, was my heart free, and my hand not engaged, I should deem myself fortunate to call mine. If deceit is ever excusable, dear Montague,, it must be in Such a case aslhis. — The Lady I Spoke to (though very worthy) could, not have been my choice, had I never Seen
my
 ^
my much loved Julia; yet I thought it incumbent on me to Soften a repulse by every method that could possibly be devised“ “that paper, Madam, ” added I, “will answer you more fully than I have either courage or ability to do personally — yet, ere I go, let me entreat that I may never again be So much distressed as I have been this day, by hearing further of a fubje(st that makes me very wretched. Fortune, Madam, has provided better for you; and will bestow you on a man, who has it in his power to render you happier than I could do.” — I bowed respe^lfully to her, and was about to retire — she caught hold of my arm — —
“Stopl” cried she, with anger in her eyes, “stop and inform me what right you have to alk any favour of me — you who can be So cruel to a fond loving, weak girl? -- If your letter is to the same purport
as what you have Spoken, — 1 desire not to read it.”
“It is. Madam, indeed; but you must retain the packet — it encloses your condescending billet, which in honour I must repossess you of.”
“I
»
t
70 M ASCLUERADES; or,
“I want it not — take this shocking pack,
, back again you whll not, my Lord?
■ Thus then” — and she threw it on the
ground — “the first person that walks this way shall know my folly, and of how cold a texture your heart is composed. — It is a punishment 1 owe myself for placing my affections on one, who values the advantages Nature has So liberally lavished on him, too highly, to think any mortal worthy of his attention. -- -- And are you
mean enough to be Satisfied with Henrietta Marchmont — that master piece of deformity! — for a wife, because she has a plentiful quantity of gold ^osmond, how
I despise you !”
“I will not stay to .See that pretty mouth
again disfigured by Such epithets.” She
Seized my hand: “You shall not leave me yet — you do well to jest at my unliappiness — it is in character, and only what can be expedied from So unfeeling a Soul — inlen fible, low minded wretch !” — With an intent of alarming her prudence a little, - I threw my arm around her in rather a free manner, “Have a care. Madam !■” Said I, with an earnest countenance; “it is a dangerous
t
/
  fi
gerous sign when ladies in Such cases descend to invedtive^ — to abusive appellations! Had you not a feeling Soul to deal with — were he not a man of honour whose mercy you are at — who Scorns to take advantage of your present unguarded condition— — would perceive that it was by no means a lucky one — with some reason you might have cause to load him with afpersions I merit not — you would lament when too late the rilk you exposed yourself to— — — from me, ” — -- and I withdrew my arm, — “you have nothing to fear — I value your peace of mind So highly, as to wish, that you may ever, in a like critical Situation, find your companion as insensible as you suppose me to be. — Think justly of my Sentiments — promise to receive your own lines — I will take them out, and tear the writing in which they are enclosed to pieces. You shall not read it — you are already acquainted how I am circumstanced. Will you. Madam, oblige me So far as to put yourself out of my power
“Would to God - I could, my Lord !’* and she hid her free in my bosom. “Happy is the woman who possesses those affections'
you
/
Jt masq^uilradesj OR;
you are determined to deny me a share in! She cannot idolise you to the degree that I do — my passion transports me beyond all bounds; and my indiscretion, which you So cruelly blame, evinces the strength of it. — — — But you despife an easy conquest -- you devote your inclinations to one So governed by Selfish principles, as to make your hap piness merely a Secondary object— — had Sooner render you miserable than incur the Smallest censure of mankind by pursuing Such steps as I have taken, — Would Maria Harley do as much to prove her attachment? — Ah! I now believe you can love 1 — she is the person, I have no doubt — unkind — inflexible — dear osmond! -- Say,
my Lord, can you not endeavour to be grateful to a creature who dotes on you
more than life? -- Your silence answera
the question.” She started from me. “Oh, that I may see you held in as much contempt by her whom you prefer — as I am scorned by you Then will you experience the misery— — heartrending misery I now endure. -- But begone !you shall not triumph over these unavailing tears,
which, in Ipite of my pride, will fall — Begone!
  73
gone! I Say, — and, ah! that it could be for ever!” She applied her handkerchief to her eyes— — was grieved more than I can express, but obeyed her command, anti precipitately lest her, well assured, however, that she would not hold her resolution of letting the packet lie a telltale“ “the first person who walked that way.”
Her eyes are continually averted from me — passion Swells on her features — and when she Speaks to me (which is not often) affected Satire breaks from her lips. — Ah! Charles, how can women be So blind to their own advantage, as ever to assume a certain fierte that instantly deprives them of every lovely attradlion. “A composition of celestial paste is the delightful Sexand nothing of the diabolical should approach, to disturb its oeconorny.
We are all going to a subscription ball fourteen miles off — I am to dance, with Lady Julia.
» « % * * ^
vol. Ill, E saturda^
f
74 M A S cyu E R A D E S; or,
Saturday Morning Six dclock.
}
When 1 was dressed, Souville informed me the carriages were driving round, and every one assembled in the laloon ready to step into them. I went down, and found Mortimer marshalling the company. “Each
gentleman’s chaise, ” cried he, “shall con
^. /
himself and his partner to -- -- -- --, and
back again.”
“1 objedv to it 1” exclaimed Suffolk.
“Your Grace has no hope of dancing with any Lady here, I presume, my Lord!” Said Budenall. “I am to have the honour of miss Charlotte pelham’s hand, ” replied the Duke.
“Then, ” answered Montague, “your Grace has Some excellent reason to give, no doubt, for opposing this admirable motion of mortimer’s, which will reconcile to M iss Charlotte So impolite an expression as the one you uttered.”
“I cannot have a better, Sir, than the true one. It is well known where my affections are lodged; and any other than Lady Julia Herbert, will find me very stupid in a teie d tete\ So, for the fair charlotte’s Sake, I wish the party better disposed.
I like your candour exceedingly, my
Lord
  75 Lord Duke, ” cried miss Charlotte Pelliam;
‘‘ you are an uncommonly Sincere lover, and, I really think, ought to be indulged in having Lady Julia to grace your carriage this evening — I will be no hindrance to your mutual pleasure — her Ladyship and I must change escorts, though I am ignorant who
was destined to be hers!” -- -- The Duke
looked at her with acknowledgment, -- at Lady Julia with transporr.
Shall it be as miss Pelham proposes, Julia demanded Pemberton. “Will you go with his Grace?” — I was just stepping forth, with no little indignation, to assert to the haughty Suffolk my prerogative, when Westbrook, unperceived by any, twitched me by the arm. Pemberton repeated his quesiion. “Positively no, my Lord, ” an swered Lady Julia, with her lovely complexion heightened.
“Your Ladyship would not be So peremptory in your negative on my request, ” cried Suffolk, in a low voice, “but for the Sake of one who appears to you but too charming — you chuse to go with osmond — the happy — the Seducing Olsinond !”
“It is of little conscquence whom I go
E 2 with,
^6
with, my Lord, So it is not the Duke of Suffolk, who gives all around me room to think that I should not be a^'erse to a tfte a iete vtiih. his Grace. — Mr Montague, will you take me under your protection? He kissed her hand : “How happy would So Sweet a companion make me! — yet 1 must acknowledge that it is fair your partner should be preferred.” “Well, Lord bude nall! you will not refuse me a place in your chaise I hope? Indeed, my adorable Lady Julia, I must, ” he answered“ “for the Same reason that Montague alleges.” “Budenall, ” Said the Duke, “have you no fears of trusting your mistress with the Marquis — you who are in genera] So jealous ?” “Is Ofmond then to be her partner cried he — “Disturb yourself no further,
'my Lord; for I am fatisfiedp
“What a piece of work is here, ” exclaimed Westbrook, ‘‘ with your jealousies! Is not Lord Ofmond Soon to become a wedded man ^ — Speak, my Lord; pour conviction into their ears, and quiet my 1*0rd duke’s apprehensions -- his Suspicions.”

‘‘ 1 value no one’s Suspicions, ” replied I.
“I am
*
WHAT YO U W I L L 77
■%
I am entitled to the general privilege of escorting my partner — I shall not be pas five because the Duke of Suffolk entertains jealoiijies, nor give up a favour I have a right to, lest his Grace should be uneasy— — the rule to be observed, Lord mbrti mer — every man to convey his partner “It. is — it is, ” was the answer from ali but the dissenting Peer. I took Lady julia’s hand — “Stop, dear osmond, ’’ cried Sir James; — not to gratify the duke’s caprice, but to Satisfy my own curiosity, let me beg of you to tell me. Are not— — it publicly) — are not your hand and vows plighted to the woman you love? — Is it poshble for you to address another in thefoft language with sincerity?”
“Such questions would come better at another time, Westbrook — The Ladies a round will think strangely of me! — However, you shall have your wish; and hear me attest, in full assembly, that my heart — my hand -- my vows -- are already engaged— — that I can never change the object of my love.” I thank your Lordship — ■ this is acting honestly! — my cousin Julia is warned how far to trust you, if, in the
L 3 I course
j
78 MAS CLUE R A D E S; or,
course of your tete-a-tete, you should be tempted (as I have Sometimes been, without meaning it) to make love to her. — Lord Budenall, you have had no doubts of the Marquisas attachment, have you
“Notone, upon my honour!” “Seymour, what Say you ?” “That Lady Julia will not deign to think of me; — and, of course, it makes no difference in my heart,
as to the object- -- -- else she distinguishes.”
“And, mylord Duke, ” — “Oh, Sir, — if in Lady julia’s prtfence Lord osmond confesses himsdf plighted to another, I am Satisfied.” “Bravo !” exclaimed the Baronet. “This girl and her lovers occasion us and me in particular — a cursed deal of trouble. — Come, Emily !”
You will judge of my rapture at banding my beloved to my chaise — 1 cannot tell you how happy I was ail the way to— — —. passed the time at the ball in a manner correspondent to our journey thither; and, when it was time to return, came back in the Same order that we went.
Soon aster our chaise drove from the as sembly room, I renewed the Subjedf nearest my heart, and which 1 always find an inexhaustible

\
4
V
  79
haustible one. I expressed myself with much warmth -- Lady Julia answered me by lamenting the clandestine way in which we were situated. She expatiated on the mean light she could not avoid holding it in, and implored me to go up to London on tuesday or wtednesday, and inform my father of my having offered her my hand. She Said, when I left Windsor, she would unfold to Lady Pemberton her attachment.
“And, if she should be averse to my happiness, — what must 1 expert
“Ah, my Lord! -- L cannot think of it.” It must be thought of, mv dear Julia! the worst is to be provided against. Siiouid she say, I disapprove of the man you have honoured with your affe5hon‘ -- you 7nuji wed suffolkf’ vthz.x. will become of the miserable osmond Must I be thrown from your heart, and given over to a wretched exr istence
“Ah, never never shall I cease to love” -- -- -- -- -- -
My better angel! let us insure our felicity — consent to make yourself mine -- Lady Pemberton will easily forgive what
she can at first but term a rash step -- -- -
£ 4 and,
I
So MA SCLUERADES; or.
and, mnce the wife of your Henry, what earthly power can tear you from me V
“Is it thus Lord osmond advises the woman he means to make his wife Ah, you know me not! — Can you, my Lord, urge me to adl So unworthily of myfelfi deserve not this !’* — She withdrew her hand which I held.
“How have I offended? — Would I induce the beloved of my soul to adl in any way that could lessen her in her own opinion.? — Ah, no, my amiable Julia! -- sus pe6t me not of it — your delicacy is mine — and Such a proof of your attachment must lay me under an additional obligation, * never to be forgotten. -- According to my idea, no deviation from propriety can be alleged by Such a measure; but, Mattering as it would be to me, I do not ask you to take it, till you have tried Lady Pemberton — till you find her inexorable — which I much fear her partiality to the Duke will render her — Then must these arms Screen my Julia from a hated rival — then must Scotland be the place, where we will Seek a Sure asylum from the dreaded calamity of your becoming suffolk’s wretched wife,
and
WHAT YOU will; gi
and I a self destroyer. If you agree not to this point — the one only left us for a dernier' rejfort — what can I think } — That my Julias, could profess to love, but not ad: consistently with the dictates of that pashon — Eveii the very shadow of affection is lost, if she exposes herself to the danger that awaits her. — Very Soon after will she, in compliance to the barbarous mandates of a parent, Scatter her assurances of truth and conflanc'^ to the winds, devote her osmond to perdition, and ally herself to the man she at present most abhors. — Ah, my God I — ca Julia Support Such ressedions !”
“Never, my Lord, will I consent to become yours in a way derogatory to my own notions of rectitude— — have I given youi a heart so frail, So much the Slave of pac sion, as to be rendered' by it insensible to the admonitions of reason. No! I will endeavour to prove myself worthy of being, your wife. — Pray hear me, my Lord — I have dreadful ideas of a marriage that commences m reproaches — How can I carry with me to the altar a mother’s displeasure!! — can that God, who has ever protected mcs^ look with complacency on a union, where
L 5 mut
22 M A S CLU L R A D g S; of;
a multitude of errors, in consequence of it rise up against me, and make me culpable in his sight! Shall I be an examiple, my Lord, of disobedience— — temerity, to my sister? Can I bear to have my name cited by many young women, as a rule for going off with Such men as they chnse to give a preference to, — who will forget the chje^ that Seduced me from duty, and remember only the fantstion they borrow from me? — * I would Submit to any misfortune first! — * And then, the very resieflion of having made an elopement (abstradled from all other considerations) would be an eternal Source of disquiet to me. I should think it a testimony in the opinions of others, and most of all in yours, that much effrontery belongs to my nature -- much of that false courage which women have no business with; and I should deserve to lose your esteem ever after — nay, I ought to do So now, if I could entertain a remote wish to become your wife at So dear an expense.”
“Pardon me, my Julia; but our Sentiments on this head differ widely. In committing yourself to my protection, you will convince me of the high trust you place in
the
t
  83
the honour of your osmond; and depend, my love, I am not So despicable a brute, as to be less attached to you for Such a proor of your affection and considelnce, — ^youroh jedtions shall be done away immetliately; and, first, as to the dreadful ideas you have of a marriage that commences in reproaches
I will convince you” -- -- —
“I must interrupt you, my Lord— — cannot remove my prejudices against a measure to which I have the strongest repugnance. I have often shuddered at hearine of my acquaintances embarking in similar enterprizes, that promised nothing but contempt and misery during life. Will you Suffer me to beg an instance of your tenderness, my Lord ?”
“Soul of my fous and end of all my zvfhes!
I live but to oblige you — Speak, and judge of my passion by my ready obedience.”
“The favour I beg, rny Lord,, is — never again to mention this hateful Scheme !” “Unkind Julia! — An, how little Sensible is your heart to love!
“Indeed, my Lord, it is equally So with — your own. — Do you assent to what I aoc ?”
£ 6
84 M ASQ.UER ADES; or,
“Conditionally. I will not again urge a proposal So disagreeable to you, unless the near danger of losing you makes it necessary. If Such a misfortune threatens, I must assure you, that no reason you can have to allege will Satisfy me; and, tho’' every infernal demon should be leagued against me, I shall Surmount all opposition,, and, as Surely as we exist, fly with you to the North. There shall the priest give a wife more valuable, more loved, than ever female was, to the arms of the faithfullest, the fondest hufoand, whose whole felicity will consist in studying her happiness -- who will prove himself her lover — her friend — her protector— — shall an anxious thought approach her dear bosom, which hrs ash duity and vigilance can Screen her fromi.” ‘
Ah, my Lord I — ray dear osmond! — never, never must 1 be yours on Such terms !’ Render me not miserable by insisting on this unpardonable step! — Let circumstances be at the worst — I cannot — will not agree toit.”
“How, Lady Julia! — are you Serious I' — Great heaven, how unexpedled is this
stroke S

w
y
stroke! — Then I have only been in a happy illusion! — Why, Madam, was I fiatteredl with the assurance of your love — I perceive the cause — it was merely to make my torments Severer when you thought proper to discard me. — But I should have beefi Sufficiently wretched — your pride would have found triumph enough, had you in genuoussy confessed your Sentiments, and laid, Ofmond you excite my compassion— — I feel nothing more for you— — cannot give you my hand; it h dejuned by my family -- ’ and myself., for another — Ungenerous girl I your heart is far indeed from being x\it Jlav& cf passion- -- paused— — looked at me
• with gentle reproach — I threw my arms a round her, and leaned my head upon her shoulder — She instantly disengaged me from her. “Thus it is, ” cried she, “I have always heard, with your Sex; — let you know your power, and you use it to the most tyrannical purpose. I never experienced the justness of that observation before, my Lord but I am glad to have a Specimen of it in these early days — However, be persuaded, that neither entreaties nor violence can Sway
me
I
t
y
U M as(^uerar)^sj oftj
me from what I think a right mode of conduct“
“Ladyship now finds it convenient, I See, to put ah end to my aspiring hopes — Assure yourself, the Sacrifice you wish shall be complete -- -! will notj through my exulting rivass heart, pierce yours — No I -- for your sake he shall be Spared -- My death will Satisfy your cruelty, and rid me of the agonies that knowing he possesses you must inssid; — perhaps it may add tr^ntport to your joys! — I shall persecute you no further — I will leave you contented, whiist I become the prey of despair and horror.”
She wept — I was penetrated at her tears - — I threw myself on my knees, and again clasped my arms about.her.
“Pardon, my Julia, this impetuosity I — Already it is sincerely repented of — Be kind and impute it all to love. When I think of losing you, I am deprived of reason— — my dearest Julia, that I am forgiven !”
“The moon is extremely bright, my Lord. If the postilions look back — if any of the Servants ride by, and See you on your
knees,
/
what you will,
«,
knees, what must they think of me? — I beg your Lordship will not subject me to censure.”
Am I pardoned? — Dear Lady Julia, pronounce that I am.”
“Your Lordship must ejtcuse my answering till you rise.” — I resumed riiy Sean “Now, Madarin, tell me that you no longer hold me in displeasure. Consider the origin of my fault — think, my angelic girl, with what fervency I adore you — and then judge whether my breast must not be a chaos of destrudive passions! — As yet I know not whether I am to be blessed with my Julia — or, in giving her up, bid an eternal adieu to every comfort — to every happiness” ”
“my Lord, I am not displeafed with you. I thought your expressions unkind. I deserved them not — that you must know— — they shall be forgotten.”
I cannot thank you Sufficiently for this goodness — And now allow me to alk, were it possible that obedience should make you yield to become suffolk’s wise, in violation to the wishes of your heart, do you Suppose Such a Sacrifice could be grateful in the sight
of
%
  ok,
of heaven oh !’ — if you abahdbin
^ f I
the bbjedt who has So long loved you with unabated constancy — who has sought fot you vi ith unwearied assiduity ^who has never had you out of his thoughts ftom the first moment he beheld you — who has,, you say, been So fbftunate as to conciliate your afo sections— — no pangs approach your heart at the ressedhon of his long Sufferings— — his untimely fate.? — for never — ah, my Julia! never will 1 behold the day that makes the detestable Suffok lord of my angel — her whom the Almighty decreed, I thought a few hours ago, to be my bride!” — Her tears fell on my hand, which enclosed one of hers — ffiy eyes shed drops of Sympathy, “Why are you Silent, my Julia i— — have almost banished hope from my bosom— — mother will never consent to our union, whilst she has a prospedt of allying you to the Duke — I am destitute of the means of offering settlements equal to my wishes, or her expectations— — poverty will deprive me of you— —! life of my soul! not one word of comfort to bestow
on your Henry !” -- She withdrew herself
from my embrace.
You,
\
»
  89
“You are too free, my Lord. I beg yoii twill consider, that I cannot allow of liberties even from you, who are dearer to me than all the world. My resolution of not going off with you is unalterable; yet believe me, when I assure you, that, if I am nut united to my osmond, no other shall claim my vows. You are a stranger to the firmness of my soul — no persuasions -- no threats — no hardships shall induce me to
Swerve from this promise- -- -- cannot be
less unhappy than yourself, if it is my destiny to be Separated from you. -- -- Why
should I be confused at owning it, or that 1 love you beyond expression?? are well entitled to the acknowledgement of both facts. Your Sentiments and my, own are correspondent in point of marrying persons whom we distike; and I had Sooner die than be guilty of perjury in the sight of God. Be Satisfied with this; and let us not imagine. Lady Pemberton, who has hitherto proved herself the most indulgent of mothers, will be tyrannical where the felicity of her child is depending. You will go up. to London on tuesday or wednesday — This duplicity towards my friends is shocking
I
pq MAS CLU ERADES; or,
ing — To preserve it many days longer must make me criminal in my own eyes. You will See, and act ingenuoudy wnth the Duke of Westmoreland. You Say he is cruel — he has ever shown an indifference towards my osmofld. As your father, he ought to be informed of your intentions. Be his an swer what it may, I shall still be devoted to you, and ready to give you my hand on Lady pemberton’s consenting — You owe him not the obligations that I do my amiable mother. The time of your absence shall be employed in bringing her over to our wishes — in dismiffing suffolk’s addresses, and in reconciling my brother to my rejedt iiig of him. Be at rest, my Lord — Suppose
not Lady Pemberton so inflexible and
know me incapable of loving any other.” — In Spite of her reproof, I clasped her to my bosom— — dried her eyes with my handkerchief— — promised to be all she wished me.
You see, Montague, I can have no further room to hope that she will marry me
clandestinely by heaven, she is right!
- ■ I venerate — I respect her for it beyond measure— — I should be made happier,
were
§
  gt
Were her notions of propriety less stridl. Would I could read my fate in the book of futurity! Should I be deprived of Such a woman through the abominable principles of ambition, or rather of avarice, there could not exist under the canopy of heaven, an object So miserable as myself! Though I am Satissied of her love, I am not of the firmness of which she boasts, where her mo' ther’s displeasure is in question — ^on any other occasion I could trust to it. — Good God! is it not the height of absurdity to imagine the pemberton’s will listen to my propusals? Supposing I offer to Settle all the fortune I can call my own upon Lady Julia, they will naturally ash me what is to become of her children? I have little to
plead with them in my favour..a noble,
impartial way of thinking is become in a great measure obsolete; and, irritated as they are against my father, they can Scarcely avoid confounding my Sentiments with his. — — Ah! that father Montague! — the unnatural Westmoreland could, if he pleased, make everything easy — he might render my alliance a more desirable object Jbr her than suffolk’s — but he would first
See
p.
92 MAS Q_U ERADES; or.
See me dragged to a wretched receptacle for maniacs — and because I dare; to aim at hap piness, he will deprive me of every shilling
of my patrimony. -- -- 1 know him well —
avaricious, unfeeling, and implacable — — Cani build on expectations from Such a man ^ — Of this be convinced, however, that Suffolk must fight well ere he robs me of my prize.
I should be glad to meet you in London when I go up, that we may consult on the best method of breaking to my father this important affair. You say that you have business to complete previous to your nuptials, which Lord beaumont’s illness obliged you to leave unfinished in town. You must make it convenient to be there on Friday: till then I hope to protract my stay at
Windsor.
^ ^ ^ Saturday Plight stwelve o'clock.
We have been on a very agreeable party fbme miles down the river. Mortimer, determined that we should not want for variety
¥
r
*
WHAT YOU WI L L 93
riety of .amusements, had, unknown to any of the company, prepared everything in ample order for this entertainment, and after breakfast aiked if we should make a lit
• "
. I
tie excursion by water.? The proposal was universally liked: — the carriages were ordered, and they conveyed us to the riverside, where we were a good deal furprised at Seeing three or four Small beautiful yachts ready to receive us. Several of the neighbouring Ladies and Gentlemen, whom my Lord had invited to join us, were on board before we arrived. We put off from the shore, and were followed by three bands of
music, in three Separate boats. -- -- It was
elysium! — — The fineness of the day — — the magnificence of the vessels, which, like cleopatra’s galley, had streamers of various coloured silks (the regal purple most illustrious) fluttering in the wind — the exquisite sound of the instruments played on by masterly performers — the unexpedledness of the Scene — and, above all, the lovely form of Lady Julia — whose countenance was more blooming than hebe’s ■ — whose Smiles I enjoyed — all Served to enrapture my Soul and transport my senses.
The
I
94 M AS QUE R AD E S; or.
The pleasure was diffusive. Suffolk Sat on the right hand of my beloved; 1 was placed on her left. He thought he was as much in her good graces, as I in reality knew my sels to be. Westbrook and miss Edgcumb were Sensible to the Satisfaction that lovers feel on Such occasions; as were Colonel Melvin and the eldest miss Pelham, and Some others, whom I cannot take the trouble of mentioning. Sir John Benyon endeavoured to make Lady Almeria Sensible of his pashon; but the laughter loving girl jested at his solicitude to please, and in a way even diverting to him. She is Something of a coquet. I pity his attachment to her— — will never reward it! If all were not alike happy, they at least Seemed amuff ed, which is a great point gained where So numerous a Set is assembled. We stopped and dined at the Castle at Richmond — I shall always wish it to flourish from the precious minutes I Spent there this day! In the evening we went over to Hampton Court; took a curshry view of the palace, time not admitting of more; ordered tea and coffee at the Toy; and returned by water and the pale light of the moon to Windsor, the
same
  95
same music accompanying us all the way back.
On tuesday next we are to have a masquerade, to which upwards of three hundred people are invited, I tell Mortimer he certainly holds confultatjons with Sorcerers. He has shown me the plan of this entertainment; and the appearance there will be of enchantment, must create many Suspicions of the shrt in the bosoms of his guests — Not Such Sort of enchantment do I mean, as Mrs. Cornelly advertises persons to expect at her mansion on particular nights — but of a far Superior order, which will have the better effect, from none of the strangers being apprized of the Scenes which will be exhibited to them. He manages ex ceed^gly well; for not the least bustle appears in preparations — no one is disturbed with the noise of mechanics, the hurry of domestics, or the hussy importance of an opiniated director; as you and I have been harrassed to death at observing, on like occasions, in the house of the Barone Della Santuville. — Had Mortimer existed in the time of Charles the Second, he would have been a first favourite with that dissipated
monarch
/
96 masq^ueradesj or,
monarch — not that his principles have the least tendency to immorality; but that he is So astonishingly clever in finding out, and putting happily into execution, the most refined diversions. He, at the Same time, gratifies the benevolence of his heart, by giving bread to a number of artificers, that bless the generous Lord who employs, and pays them munificently. His fortune is large, and he lives up to it in a manner that does him honour. — Lady Julia told me she would appear in the dress of per dita: I begged leave to be her Florizel, to which, with a Smile, she immediately as sented.
And now I will retire to bed, where I have not been these two nights — yet I regret each moment that is lolj in dull forgetful ness at windsor.,
I
****** * *
*
** * * * * * ^ ^
Sunday Morning.
Your letter is just brought me, which tells me that you are in London, and all
impa
* It does not appear.
W
  9>
impatience to return and call louisa yours — So you have prevailed on her to cut off a few days of the allotted time, and give you her hand the morning after your arrival in Hampshire. -- -- All this is well, and I rejoice
at it, though it will carry me to town a day Sooner than I intended. — Burr, dear Montague, think you, that your friend in lincoln’s inn fields will be as expeditious as you hope for? Your impatience and his pen can keep no proportion I fear. those lawyers are plaguy tedious fellows! as many an anxious lover has pronounced. We are entirely at their mercy; and, like despots, they exert their privilege - without remorse. Let me know certainly how long you muji stay in London, and I will take my measures accordingly; but I absolutely cannot stir before wednesday, coute qid coute. Make what use you please of my house— — it yours, for I do. Your Servant shall carry you this packet; So fare well I
Osmond.’
%
4
vol. III F
MAS Q, U E R A D E Sj orto
jlady Julia Herbert,
Sommermlle hoiife,, Monday Night,
A Few lines I will addrcss to my Julia,
just to Say that my amiable Montague is gone up to London, and that directly on his return (which he supposed would be next thursday) I am to part with the name of Sydney for ever! — I know not why he was So urgent for anticipating the ceremony. The third day in the next week, which was the time allotted for its celebration, will arrive Soon enough, and it was Scarcely worth changing the day: however, his wishing to have it So, was Sufficient with me to give up my own will on the occasion.
This night you are immersed in all the woes of sigismunda — may your fate bear no resemblance to her wretched one! and. may I shortly embrace my fair friend the bride of her beloved and admirable hero!
I am a good deal indisposed with a cold, whkh has caused me to be feverish; and,
as
V
^ J
  99
as it lies chiefly in my head, gives me much pain, and renders me unfit for writing. — Adieu, my Sweet Julia! We shall shortly meet — what happiness is in the thought I
%
Louisa Sydney
»
*

I
.
’to the Marquis Osmond
«
Jameses Square.
OH! osmond, what pangs will your
Sympathising heart experience at reading the iflclofcd! — peruse it now and then join me in bemoaning that heaven ever created So unfortunate a being as the undone Montague I
V F z rd
i
\
«
toq
^ T? r Charles Montague.
> A
THE Subject of my letter will certainly be no less Surprising, than it will be painful to you, Sir! Isle voice of friendship loudly calls upon me to Save two persons, who share my warmest esteem, from the gaping gulf of misery which lies before them, and into which they will inevitably plunge, if my extricating hand does not preserve them.
Flushed as you are with happiness, — anticipating those ideal joys that must never be realised, — 1 take upon me the unpleas ing talk of awaking you from your flattering illusions, and pointing out to you the path of honour, which I am Sure you will pursue. Let me inform you. Sir Charles, that a conne<5l; ion with Lady louisa Sydney will be the bane of your felicity. Beautiful and virtuous as she is— — not this assertion appear paradoxical? — Too soon will 1 clear the mystery!
Mr Melmoth, whose libertine character
*
^ '
  ii
you must she acquainted with, more than two years ago, proposed to Sir George some merville for Lady louisa. He was rejected, but had found means to make himself an advocate in her breast, that almost stifled every impreshon of duty, and silenced each reasonable plea that her uncle could offer against him. To be short, her meetings with Melmoth were Srequent — her correspondence with him more So — Sir George discovered both, and vowed to Lady louisa, that, if she held any further intercourse with So profligate a creature, he would cast her off as an alien to his affection and fortune. Her gentle nature was overcome by his menaces, and she wrote to her lover a letter of Sir george’s dictating, which put a total end to his courtship. It Seems Mr. melmoth’s vindiduve Spirit to this hour resents it; and,, ignorant of Lady louisa’s having executed it through compulsion, vows vengence on her.
When you arrived, Sir George, foreseeing; that you meditated addressing his Niece, partly by persuasion, and partly by threats, made her vow to accept of your hand, if you offered it. Dependent as Lady louisa
F g ' is
102 MASQUER ADES; or,
is upon her uncle, what could she do, but bend her timid inclination to the stern yoke of his tyrannic will? She fulfilled her promise, and is now the devoted victim of an unkind uncle’s caprice. I am Satisfied he means well, and thinks to ensure her hap pinefsshy a connexion with a man of So exalt ed'a character as yours; but, alas! he forms an improper judgement in Such a cafe, where certainly the uncontrolled choice should be permitted to determine its object. She is at this moment ill in bed — a feverish com
f
plaint, that attacks her head, discovers truths which in her Senies she would wish to have buried in oblivion. Mr. Melmoth is the person who occupies her thoughts -- she raves of him -- and execrates the hour that was witness to his difmistion. Let me ask you. Sir, — can a man of your humanity, wsho possesses so much tenderness for Lady .douisa, wish to entail lasting misery on her — Impossible! — and now demand of yourself— — you be satisfied to take to your arms a woman who must wish that Melmoth supplied your place— — must assume your name with horror — and whose
fraudulent endearments must be as disgust
full
  103
Sul to her to pracstise, as they would be delightful to you to receive, were they the
- genuine dictates of her heart.? you can
Scarcely believe me j ust in entertaining Such ideas of her whom you imagined sincerely attached to you — you almost blame me for infcdting you with them — yet I have given
you no more than the real charafler of ¥
louisa after site becomes your wife. -- -- --
Leave this pursuit, Sir Charles -- listen to
the admonitions of friendship, or you will too late repent your rashness. I am ignorant how you can break off the affair with honour to each party -- your good sense, your delicacy must instruct you. If Sir George did but guess that you were acquainted with the circumstances of his nieces situation, the consequences would be dreadful to her
— That hint is enough to guide you. -- -- -- --
The melancholy way Lady louisa is in urged me to this ungrateful office. I am Sure I have everything to expect: from your amiable heart — therefore d ii'pel all apprehension of Suffering from the confidence I repose in you. Lest my letter should undergo the aspersion that anonymous epistles in general deserve, I Sign my name, at onco
F 4
f
I
104 MAS (LU ERADES; or,
to convince you of the veracity of its contents, and of the opinion I have of your honour. I am also with truth, dear Sir,
Your real friend, and well wisher,
M. SOMMERVILLE.
4
What have I done to deserve So cruel a disappointment! — Ungenerous louisa! — One word — one single word should have made me cease to molest you — unhappy as it must have rendered me, I could not have condemned, but pitied you! — beautisul — adorable -- artful girl! — Oh! my osmond, what Scenes does recollection bring back to my view! — how plainly now do I perceive the disgust that laboured in her bosom! — ■ Heaven and earth! what an expression!! — — and am I then disgustful to my louisa? — Louisa I — Fond pen — whither dost thou lead me— — must teach thee another language. -- -- -
I have
%

I have heard of this Melmoth — this shi>' vader of my right. — By heaven! he never" shall call her his. — I will find him, and demand satisfaction for the wrongs he has done me — my Sword shall revenge them — and show him what it is to usurp the affec --
tions of -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Oh, osmqnd S
-- -- -- -- —,, -- -- -- -- -- .jo— — will not
Seek his death — she loves him — curse om the Sentence! — and I love her tt to’ make myself yet more hateful in her eyes
■ -- -- -- endearment— —
Melmoth in my plaa V — — Damnation! — Ah! had she bu t known my Sentiments — had she known that without her heart her per son could have no charms for me — much' dishmulation might have been Spared— — melmoth.enjoy both — she will Soon repent,
-- -- ^ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- How well dol
remember the emotions that invaded her breast when I first declared my pashon! — ' She would not listen tome, till recolleduonr: brought back the vow she had made Sir' George — and then what reluctance appeared in her countenance, when she hesitatingly’ consented to regard me as her lover! — —? Fool that 1 was! I thought it virgin delis
5. cacy>
V
jo MASCLUERADES;
cacy — and idolised her for it -- -- How
to apppease this tempest in my breast f —
What measures to pursue! -- -- 1 will not be
a tame, fawning wretch -- -- 1 have been
lised abominably ill. — Let me think how
I must adt.
%
I
* * «
1 have it — 1 will immediately order myr chaise, and go down to sommerville house — there will I reproach her in the bitterest terms for her artifice — her perfidy — I will bid her rise from the bed of fickness which my unhappy addresses have cast her on —
I will assure her that she need never henceforward Suffer even an anxious thought to intrude from the expedlation of a con nedlioh with me — that the discovery of her falsehood has entirely cured me — and that. she is at liberty to dispose of her hand to the man who has So long been in posseshon
of her affections. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Oh! I
cannot be So contemptible a villain as to distress her tender nature Cast she account
for the impulses of her heart! — and Surely she is Sufficiently punished in being
hindered
WHAT TOO wilt.
- > ' .♦ I.
hindered from following its dictates f — — 1
am in honour bound to Screen her from Sir
» *
george’s displeasure, by concealing the Secret,. and taking upon myself the whole: ^
blame of this unexpected breach— — -- -- -- -- *
"— had you Seen with how affectionate an air she bade me adieu, — with what officious tenderness she followed me
m the hall door! -- -- -- The instant I stepped
into my carriage, I looked at her — tears stood trembling in her eyes — they feemedi tears of Sorrow at my departure — No doubt they fell im abundance when the chaise? drove pff, - at the idea of its being So Soon to convey her from the neighbourhood of'
her lover! -- -- -- -- Perhaps Lady Sommer --
ville is mistaken -- -- -- -- -- — That is im --
possible! — Has not louisa’s perturbed mind brought on an alarming illness Does she not rave of Mel moth? — Lady sommer ville was actuated merely by compassion ins the measure she took — to me she always expressed the warmest regard for her niece— — felt her Sufferings, and strove to relieve them -- -- -- — — — Oh, louisa Sydney
F
-- wm

* ♦
4
I
...
y ^
/ * '
tob M A S QLU E R A D E S; o
«>
/
« # * ^ ^
^ m ^
/
My Spirits are much composed What a folly it is to sink under an irremediable misfortune! -- -- Though she is Sa
closely linked to my heart^that, to separate her from it,, must rend the tenderest half away — it shall be done. L will reshlutely urn dertake the talk, and be again an unfettered, indifferent fellow., 1 will learn to despise all poor wretches who are under the influence of petticoated hypocritesj — who ’ can forget the dignity, of men, and become winders, of silk, — connoisseurs in aprons, -- who receive lessons how the needle shouldi be directed to flourish gold on cloth, -- who make themselves l]paniels to obtain a look,, 3 Smile, from one of the deceitful Sex — — Forgive me, heaven! Such a tame blockhead have I been! -- -- but there is an everlasting end of it! -- -- -1 have written
ta Lady Louilh, and here transcribe my letter. L am pleased with it; — it will give her room to fuppose that 1 can stifle my
paffiodj, if not immediately conquer stand
that
w
 . Wg>
that I can refrain from tormenting, her witl^ gom^kints and reproaches.
Lady Louisa Sydney.
condesc’end; Madam, ta'read the apo logics of a man penetrated with confusion, and*overcome by distress for having (though innocently) been the cause of your enduring So much uneasrness. despel your anxieties 4. and from henceforward be convinced, that sr lady, were she even loved by meto diff traction, has very litt!e to fear from my persecution; when once L know that her heart is biassed towards another object— — yours I refer you for an explanation.
I implore your pardon for the constraintr LI have laid you under; at the same time entreat you to remember, as a palliation o my error, that, when I presumed to beg the honour of your hand, provided you; could give it in unison with your affections.. answered. They were entirely di[engaged... - — ' — ■it is far from my intention to
hint
%
*
4
4
ro MAS Q.IT E R A lye S; osv.
%
hint at making your Ladyship single reproach — No — dear as it must cost me to? renounce you, it shall be done without at murmur to — or of you. — May you bs' blessed! — may the happy man who is to call you his, prove the best and tenderest husband in the world !^ — and may you,. Madam, never experience a pang from the recollection of what he Sustains who gives' you up for ever !^
When my Spirits are calmer, I will write to Sir george perhaps by this conveyance;, and make out Some plea for abandoning; sommerville holise. — It will be best that Lady louisa should take no notice of having heard from me.
I have the honour to be, with much sin eerity,.
Your ladyship’s most obedient,
* /
Humble Servant,
Charles montague
*
,
* A
Pid
)
0
WHAT Y OTT WILL. fry >
• ^ f ^
Bid I ever love her ardently, my 0& mond I I think not. I could not be So Soon composed enough to write with Such (balance. I have been deceived in myself all this while. Your boyish, romantic stuff infected me! — — Away then, louisa! — root you from my breast! — “all my fond love; thus do I blow to heaven— — gone !’** — Fly with those fascinating charms to your
melmoth’s arms -- -- -- Perdition Seize him!'
— Shall he lead her to the altar — there receive her vows of eternal fidelity and love — gaze on her form till his senses are absorbed
in delight? -- -1 behold his raptures—
— partakes of them -- -- -- -- -- Oh, damn:
him! damn him I
* isf *
* *. * * ^ * * #
• \
Friendship can yet impart comfort wbrtfir living for! — I just now observed Stanley carry out my pistols r he little fuspedls there eaufe of his unhappy master’s agitation
to be as terrible as it is. 1 did not recall
them — heaven has renovated my soul
; and I despise Sq cowardly an ad as that
of
r 5
i M A. S Q; U E R A D E S j o iii

of Suicide. I willleave Londonj. and bury’
mysclf in the unfieqjuented haunts of EL
wellyn... — I expect to See you this night
— •to morrow I will afford you all the as fistance in my power with your father in. the important point you have So much at heart, and then bid a long, farewell to London. That I may be Saved the trouble ■ — the agony of a personal relation of this. cursed event -- that you may be prepared for the situation you will find me in — I have, taken up the pen — The greatest part of the night
has been Spent in writing -- -- Just as
1 was getting into bed. Lady sommerville’s^ letter was brought to me. It banished sseep from my eyes,, and planted anguish in my; breast — never will it depart from thence I
• -- -1 must, make out a few lines to Sir
George Sbmmerville. Before I Seal my packet I will write, — and encibfe you a copy..
Farewell, my dearosmond! Never .may the calamity approach your heart, that, bears a similitude, to^what i.endure!.
Charles Montague.
Morning
%
Y.DU WILL. ii
ISO Sir George Sommerville.
IN what light. Sir, must I appear to you, when you have done me the favour of perusing this letter! — Let me find an advocate in your Sensibility, that will induce you to compashonate, though you must condemn, the most unfortunate of men. The stings of my own conscience will but too Severely chastise the imprudence of my conduct!! — keeping you longer in suspense, know that — I am unworthy of Lady louisa
Sydney. -- -- What tortures do I not Suffer
in this avowal! — Oh, Sir George! you who know her excellence — how dear she is to my heart — judge of my distress Last night I was drawn into deep play at stapleton’s — before three o’clock this morning, 1 arose from the gaming table, destitute of the last guinea I owned on earth
• -- -- -- will not ally that amiable woman
to poverty — my soul is above the idea and have Sworn never to be hers. I must vit the kingdom direduy; and, and as an
addte
114 MAS cyuerades; or,
additional punishment, conceal rayself frora> all my friends, whose Society would be too high a gratification for So lost a wretch as I am to experience.
. Dear Sir George, Supply to Lady Louir fa the part I intended to have acted— — her blessed as mortal can be — and the Surest way to obliterate me from her heart (for I had reason to be flattered with the hope of being loved) is to prevail on her to make choice of Some more fortunate man; and do you Smile upon their union.. Break my situation to Lady Louisa in the way you judge most proper — I cannot write to her — and assure her my whole Soul is at this moment poured forth in prayers for her.
Adieu, Sir, - — think of me, as of one much attached to you; and pity the miserable
Charles Montague
Londatiy ivednejday Morning
*
\
»
$
{


Yi? Sir Charles Montague.
jvindfor^
tvednefday Mornings 11 dclocl
YOU will be Surprised, my good friend,
> at receiving a letter from me, instead
of one from osmond. -- -- -- Your Servant has
brought your packet, who Said it was of the utmost consequence that it should be delivered immediately into the hands of the Marquis. — I am shocked to tell you, dear Montague, that osmond is by this time many miles distant from windsor. As matters are circumstanced, it is best he should be So. — He had a rencontre with the Duke of Suffolk about two o’clock this morning. His adversary’s business he has done most effedlually I believe. Suffolk, it is thought, cannot live many hours.
■ — The unfortunate osmond is ssed, but whither I am ignorant. — There are many under this roof irritated beyond description at our unhappy friend — none more So than Lady Pemberton and her Son. — Caroline has fal
len under her mother’s displeasure, for the
2tealou4
, ^
ii M A S Q.U L It A D E S; or,
zealous warmth with which she undertook his and her sister’s cause — But what shall I Say of the wretched Julia? — Ah, Montague, her fate is marked with woe! and what may be the end I tremble to think. It is impossible for me to stir from hence at present, or I would be the bearer to you of these unwelcome tidings.
I condemn myself for having been instrumental to Such a Scene of distress. My wishes to render my friends happy, have proved the very means of inssidling misery
on them. -- -- -- Your Servant is impatient to
return — I will not detain him — This is no place to invite you to. — In the evening I shall Send you the particulars of this affair — I Scarcely know what I write. — Dear Sir Charles, I am.
Much yours,
4
mortimerr
%
*
  iijr To Sir Charles Montague.
Windsor Wednesday Afternoon,
I Now sit down, dear Montague, to give you the account I promised; first Saying, by way of preface, that, as you must be acquainted with your friend’s pashon for Lady Julia, and of her reciprocal return to it, there is no occasion for my detaining you from the knowledge of the last dreadful Scene, by a repetition of circumstances too prolix for the present occasion.
We gave a mashed ball last night. — ....
At ten o’clock the apartments were almost filled; when Lady Percival, miss Edgcumb, and Lady Julia, entered the principal room, with the last group of mashs that had arrived. Lady Julia was dressed as Perdita; the two others, 'as attendant shepherdesses. I could only fusped; the first mentioned to be my Sister from her shape and air, being totally ignorant of thb habit she intended to assume. I will confess I was struck with the loveliness of her whole appearance,
and
V
/
/
i
and drew near to discover whether it was Lady Julia. An elegant Florizel approached;
jhe claimed her with much ardour as his partner for the night. He addressed her in the words of shakespeare : she answered him in the Same style, A large circle formed around them. The roof echoed with sounds of admiration. The men wished themselves Florizel; the women envied Perdita. Charlotte Pelham came up to me — “Is not that shepherd, think you, Lord Ofmond?” cried she.
“No, ’* I answered: if you want Lord Ofmond, child, to make you the like pro feshons that amorous Swain has done to his pretty shepherdess, you will Hnd him there — and I pointed to Pemberton, whose height is much about osmond’s, you know. He wore a domino wrapped close about him, which would I thought conceal the difference of person, even from the perspicuous eye of an enamoured woman; for Such the infernal Charlotte is — and I, aware of her pas fion for the excellent Henry, guarded myself in my answer.
“Do you know me, pray, Lord Mortimer V demanded she — —?
“Cer
1
  119
Certainly !’* I replied : “you are Lady Maria Harley. Lord osmond’s attachment to you is no Secret; and I am glad to find you are not indifferent to him!” I turned from her; and told Pemberton, if he wished for an adventure, to pafs himself on the Lady I marked out to him as Lord Ofmond. He instantly followed, and led her away. — 1 met Westbrook.
“Mortimer, ” Said he, “I am very unhappy! — I fear all will not go well. — As 1 passed Suffolk, I overheard him venting passionate exclamations to his mean follower Jack Ainstey; and too Surely he suspeds osmond to be julia’s lover!”
“You fear without cause, my dear Jamesexclaimed I. “Be not alarmed ‘ — Do you put the Duke on a wrong Scent, as I have already done Charlotte Pelham— — will be kept apart from our shepherd and shepherdels, and be no further observers of their particular behaviour to each other, which, on my Soul, it would be cruel to prevent! — Nay, we could not prevent it! — they are lost in contemplation of each other — they are transported with love, and unmindful of the consequences.”
What
r
lao
What you advise shall be done, ” returned he: “I will watch his haughty Grace with the attention of an Argus !”
In Some time after I passed by osmond and his Julia. They were lequestered from the throng, and Seated in a retired corner of the room; he talking earnestly to her, in an attitude the finest that can be imagined — I never beheld a more animated, a more impassioned figure. She Sat in a reclining position, giving a gready ear to all he uttered. — Montague, what a Subject just then would they have made for the pencil of Sir Joshua Reynolds! — I hovered near them, that I might Seem to make a third in the conversation, if any unwelcome per son approached. — He Saw and beckoned to me.
“Mortimer, ” cried he, “you must as sist in obtaining for me the favour I Solicit.”
Name it, ” exclaimed I.
“lam urging my angelic girl, ” he replied, “to let me possess a lock of these beautiful tresses.” “Surely she does not refuse you !” “Oh, she docs indeed! and alleges Such reasons as never before were thought of. I
Swear I cannot See where the impropriety of
her
 ; 121
her assenting would rest. — I am to leave her tomorrow— — for years — nay, it may be — So cruel is she in her inflexible resolution — that we shall never meet again! — and yet she refuses me the only comfort I could have after our Separation“ “Julia! — She loves you not, my dear osmond — she would fain persuade herself that she does; but her heart is of too frigid a nature — abandon her without regret! — a more fair one — one who will not
stand upon Such punftilious, empty forms, when the happiness of the man she boasts to love is at stake — is ready to oblige you
in every wish she can gratify -- Charlotte
Pelham would be transported, did you make her Such a request — Jhe would dare to do much more for her osmond Her. ofmonl Lord Mortimer cried Julia.
“No, my dear love, ’* exclaimed the Marquis; “she cannot give me that title! — Never whilst I exist shall any woman have. a right to it but my Julia; and may I be eternally abhorred by you, if for a Single moment I forget the vows of fidelity I have made you !’*
“You do not doubt my tenderness, my vol; III G Lord,
, t22 mas(^ueradesf OR,
A
f Lord, though my brother does !” “He
^ must doubt it, ” Said I, “unless you immediately give him what he requests!” “It
is not your suspicion, i^ord Mortimer, that induces me to consent; but that my Lord asks it as a proof of my affection“ “dear Julia, I am pleased to hear you Say So, ” returned I; “and now I no longer distrust your love. — Retire with me into this gallery — no one has entered it yet — and of mond Shall take the lock from the pretty neck which it at present helps to adorn.” — We all three entered the gallery — they unmasked— — Seated her, unrolled a curl that hung carelessly upon her neck, and cut off part of it — He pressed it to his lips — he put it in his bosom. “And now, my Julia, ” cried he, “as I mean to depart when this happy night’s revel breaks up — as 1 shall have no other opportunity, let me Snatch the present one of taking my leave in the manner 1 wish — our mutual friend has been already witness to the Solemn dedication I have made you of my heart — again, in his presence, I Swear, by all my hopes of happiness, that no misfortune, no distance of place or time, shall ever weaken the ardour
of
>
  123
/
of my passion, or shake my constancy. You ^ will ever be present to my thoughts — for you will I Support life — and in you centre
all my desires. -- If my father only refuses
his Sand ion to my addresses, remember your pro nise — Burr, if Lady Pemberton should be alike barbarous, — if my Julia perseveres in her dreadful determination of not flying with me, — I can have no prospect of Seeing her again shortl}'’ — must not the pangs of absence be mitigated by our corresponding?? — will not refuse to receive and answer my letters P“
“can I Say V replied she— — I will consider of it. If reflection discovers any error in my doing So, I will inform you of it, in my return to your first letter, which will acquaint me more fully how we are to conduct ourselves. -- -- Though that intercourse
should be Suppressed, never doubt my attachment — and that I will Sooner die, my Lord, than cease to love you with the utmost tenderness.” “I am but half Satisfied, dear Julia !” he cried. “However, we will talk further of this in the course of the night — and I will not lose the precious minute of bidding you adieu.” He em
G a braced
/
124 M ASCLUERADE S; or,
braced her two or three times — she wept — be was himself equally affected. I heard persons approaching the gallery — I advised them to put on their masses hastily, and leave the apartment. They obeyed, and we returned to the company. The unfortunate couple rejoined the dance. I Sought out Westbrook, and alked him whether his apprehensions were dissipated ^ “Saith, ” cried he; “I have followed Suffolk with unwearied assiduity, and perceive there are negotiations passing between him and Charlotte Pelham. I overheard her say. Tour Grace may he ajfured that they are together, and that Lord Mortimer is in the secret. She then Spoke So low, that I could only catch a word here and there. At length he exclaimed, ‘‘ By Heaven, I will be Satisfied! — The artful, dissembling osmond shall stand confessed in open daylight a villain, — and learn that I will not be injured with
impunity.*’..i then Sent Emily Edgcumb
to interrupt their conversation — she has never Since left his side, nor do I choose to be very distant from them, lest, provoked as he must be at her detaining him from the
Search he wishes to make, his violent temper
*
  125
per should break forth towards her in terms not consonant with politeness — and, to Say a truth, I should not be Sorry for a slight motive to revenge on him the misery he is the occasion of to osmond.” I implored Westbrook, for Lady mortimer’s and my Sake, to avoid any quarrel with him; and represented the disagreeable circumstances which must attend a thing of the Sort happening amongst our guests. I Said the duke’s Suspicions were of litttle conse quence, as osmond would in a few hours leave windsor, and the affair must So Soon become public; — that to keep them asunder for the night was the only matter to be attended to. “But when every one unmaflcs, and he finds that the Marquis and Julia have really been together all the evening, he will be outrageous. — I am ignorant of any method that could be used to hinder bad effects— — Mortimer, to prevent intruders, mentioned, in her cards of invitation, that every one was to throw aside their mask at Supper — as it turns out, it was devilishly unlucky 1 — Were I to ask osmond to change his dress, I must tell him my reason; and that would at once deter
G 3 ^ mine
■9
%
r
126
mine him not to comply. — What is to be done V “Upon my Soul I do not know — your apprehension is just; — however, we must leave all to fortune !” — As we parted Pemberton took me by the arm : “On my word, ” cried he, “I never had Such strong love made to me by any woman, as by Charlotte Pelham. She is a downright eloisa 1 She told me she would convince me of the fcrvidity of her passion, by offering to become mine on my own conditions — that she would resign the form of marriage to those who knew not what it wa, s to love with the transport that she did. She reproached me for giving back her letter, and denying to bestow on her the least mark of tenderness— — added that she had discovered, it. was neither Henrietta march monf, or Maria Harley, I died for — but, Julia Herbert. She advised me to drop that pursuit, and be kind to her wishes, threatening elfe to lay a scene of horror and confusion. What think you, Mortimer: * — The amorous Jezebel must have cause for this conjecture— — Ofmond attached to Julia ?” “A jealous woman’s assertion, ”
replied I“ “should never pin my faith
upon
%
  127
upon — But what answer made you “I assured her, that, though she had mistaken me for another, she should find - me not undeserving of the Secret I had got to
the knowledge of -- -- 1 lamented the hard
heart of the man she esteemed; and advised her, as a friend, not to let her attachment carry her So far as to breathe in his ear an offer like the one that, in an unguarded moment,, I heard escape her lips, — — She Seemed frightened; hnd, exclaiming “Lord pemberton’s voice!’*
flew from me. -- -- If Ofmond loves Julia,
t can well account for her cruelty to Suffolk! Do you believe that he does ?” “It is evident you believe So. — But should it
be the cafe, you cannot be Sorry 1” “You are wrong; I should be extremely Sorry. 1 admire and regard him; but his father would disapprove of the alliance — and my sister shall enter into no connedlipn, where every part of the lover’s family do not zea loussy wish for the union. — Have we not been told of the Sarcastic manner in which Westmoreland Speaks of us? — But, putting that out of the cafe, there are deformities in his character of So atrocious a die, as
G 4 must
I
4
128
must make, us abhor the thought of Seeing a Sister become his daughter.” “Pemberton, your terms are too strong! — Peformu ties of so atrocious a die!” — “I know not what you may do; but I class under those words, his having broken the heart of the most amiable, the most beautiful woman that it is Said Europe ever produced, who was forced by relentless parents to give him
her hand — his having” '- “Well, wtii!
we need enter into no discuffion of his faults ' — let his conscience answer them. Burr, though you may be justly prejudiced against the Duke, certainly your good sense will not allow you to be So against osmond! It would be very illiberal to inssicst on a Son an undcserved misery, because his father is a wretch!! know osmond to be altogether as amiable as Westmoreland is the reverse -- suppose Julia loves him!” “How!” — « Nay, I only make the Supposition !” “Then hear me — were she to love him to distradlion — never never would I give her to him. Suffolk is the man I have, as well as her mother, destined her for — but, if she chuses to bid us all defiance, and enter into a family that will despise her, because she
has
%
  129
has not fortune fuitabk to its avaricious
/ s
wishes — 1 Will no more behold her, or think
mvsrlf hct brother.” -- 1 was exceedingly
shocked — He left me, and my first thought; was, how to Supply that unjust deficiency of iortune, which would, I feared, be thee cacic of poor julia’s unhappiness, I loon struck upon a plan, and resolved to prt>. pose it when matters were riper.
As we sat down to Supper, the rule was observed — evety one took off their malk,
I Saw Suffolk, the instant that osmonddrop, ped his, go up and whisper Something in his ear. I'he other bowed, and answered, with a Smile, “Your Grace is very much in the right! you may depend it shall be as you desire.” I could not suspedt, from the countenance of either, that a challenge was given; and imagined that Suffolk had diff carded ms doubts.
The iil f lied pair seemed inspired with 3 desire of making the most of the transient bliss they then erjoyed — osmond forgot to preserve appearai.ces, and Julia was the portrait of felicity. Pieafure Sparkled irs their eyes — love glowed on their cheeks — and Smiles revelled on their lips. We arose
G 5 ffoi23
*/•
'' y
130 '
from table, and after a short while I missed osmond, and Saw Julia walking arm in arm with miss Edgcumb, Budenall and Frederic Montague with them. ’ I inquired of my Sister for her partner — “He left us a quarter of an hour ago, ” she replied;
“and Said he would return immediately.”
■ -- -1 was alarmed; and, without divulging
it, quitted them to go in quest of the Marquis. - I traversed many apartments without discovering him; — at length the Sound of voices brought me to a room, wherein I found Suffolk, Cfmond, Sit James Westbrook, and Jack Ainssey. Suffolk was making furious passes at our friend, who did little more than desend himself; and, before I had time to reach the Spot where they sought, Suffolk, in the violence of his wrath, aiming to put a period to the life of his adversary, rushed on the Sword of osmond, which entered his right side. He fell, and called for Lord Pemberton. The noise of the rencontre reached the company, and in a minute the apartment was filled with gentlemen. of mond’s situation was distressing — he gave the Duke all possible assistance — he lament,
,
I
I
  ir
ed suffolk’s rashness— — declared he was Sorry for the provocation his Grace had obliged siim to resent. The Duke received his condescending words as insults offered him, and entreated that his last moments might not be disturbed by the sight of an exulting happy rival, whom to his latest breath he must hate and envy. The Marquis assured him, that he injured his feelings in thinking him happy, when he beheld the Situation his unfortunate hand had reduced him to; that he flattered himself with hopes of his recovery, and, though relundcantly, would leave his Grace till he judged more kindly of him — He retired — a Surgeon appeared, and, whilst he was employed about Suffolk, I took Westbrook aside, and inquired of him the particulars of the affair — In the following words he gave them :
“I overheard Suffolk say to osmond, just as they were preparing to sit down to Supper, “I am no longer to be deceived, my Lord; you are the man who Seduces from me Lady julia’s affections— — expect you will meet me two hours hence in the
r
artois room — 1 insist upon it! — 1 shall car
G 6 ry
t32 M A S (LU E R A D E S; or,
ry my Sword thither — you must do the same — and give me the Satisfaction I require — By Heaven and Earth I will no longer be a dupe 1” The Marquis answered “Your Grace is right — depend it shall be as you desire I went up to Ofmond, and told him I had been attentive to the duke’s Speech, and his reply — that it was incumbent upon me to make both known, and prevent their meeting. “Dear Westbrook, ” cried he, “it is mere nonsense 1 — For the Sake of your charming cousin, I will not fight him, if I can consistently with honour help it — But if the thing must happen, .why not as well presently as at another time? — He is very arrogant — nay impertinent — and I should not be averse to the talk of humbling him a little, — Yet 1 once more Swear to you, that, as far as a man of courage can go, I will, to avoid ' it; and for this reason, that I know what pangs a duel on her account will give this fair creature, ” looking at Julia. “She must not have an idea of the appointment he has just made — say nota: fyuable of it, I conjure you by our friendship.” Will
you let me accompany you r” laid I. “If
Suffolk
  133
Suffolk is insolent, by all that is good I will nut alk you to with hold your ain! — Grant me but this.” “Be it So 1” northeast replied; “and I am the be’ 'er pleased, be cause you will convince Juiic;, that nothing but strong neceshty could urge the combat, if a combat does er lue.” I left him, and, as Soon as the Duke disappeared, he came
and took me by the arm -- --
‘‘ Westbrook, ” cried he, “I am authorised to carry a friend with me; for Jack Ainstey has attended Suffolk out, ” Tshe gentlemen were in the apartment of ashg nation when we entered.
“I am here, my Lord Duke, ” Said the Marquis, to know your grace’s will “It is already known to you, my Lord, ” returned Suffolk : “one of us must drop — our Swords shall deckle which.”
“Mine shall not quit its Scabbard, until I am informed why it should encounter yours, ” cried Ofmond.
Can you, my Lord, ” replied the Duke, presume to carry dissimulation So far? Have you not dared, in a Secret manner — in violation to all laws of honour — r have you bot dared to rob me of the heart of Lady
J
134
Julia Herbert? To throw a veil over the eyes of her family— — Screen yourself from my wrath, you have, with vile meanness, reported, that your hand is destined for another.”
“'You know but little of me, my Lord! — Lo screen myself from your wrath! — be as sured, I hold it in contempt. Never was the heart of osmond appalled by any being that wears a weapon — no, not even by the mighty Suffolk !”
“You are merry, Lord osmond. Flushed with hope of calling her yours whom I have long loved, you judge it beneath you even to assume a gravity proper for this Subject; but your gaiety will not last, trust me. Confess directly— — you not the lover of Lady Julia ?”
“I pray you how long is it since you have arrogated the privilege of inquiring into the state of my^heart? Listen, my Lord — vrere I indifferent to Lady Julia, I should chuse, to punish your turbulent curiosity by absolutely refusing to Satisfy it; but, as I am
0 m ^ -
not Solicitous to blind her family, nor to screen myself from your terrific wrath, I will profess, with the utmost sincerity, to
you
  13j
you and all the world, that I do love her beyond everything that is held most dear — I adored her before your Grace knew her; and shall continue to do So long — very long, after your acquaintance with her ceases.’’
“Damnation! — dare you Speak thus to Suffolk!”
“Indeed, I dare— — to a more tremendous man — and yet have no ague fir.”
“Another word before we engage. Lord osmond -- Have you not declared your attachment to her Does she not consent to reward it and he trembled with pashon.
“those questions might come properly from her brother; from your Grace they are unnecessary — nor will 1 resoive them.’*
“Methinks, Lord Ofmond, ” Said Jack ainqey, “the least you can do, is to put out of suspense an unhappy lover.”
“1 pity all unhappy lovers, Sir— — I am one myfels! -- But I shall make no Surther responses to the duke’s interro eations.”
O
“You need not, Ofmond, ” replied his Grace. “I am well convinced that Lady Julia has ele<5led you the partner of her fate — but my arm shall prevent it.”
“With
236 MAS Q.D E R A D E S j o r,
\
Without fearing your wrath, my Lord, I will decline this combat — at least for the present. I owe Lord and Lady Mortimer too much respedt to make their house the Scene of broils and bloodshed — another time may settle the matter as well — I do not wish to plunge you into eternity, — Prithee live, and Seek Some kinder mistress !’*
‘‘ And do you add rallery to insolence? You have got the cant of priestcraft. It is not long, poor boy! since your father discarded the parson who Set you Sermons as lessons to get by heart — I suppose ye also chanted psalms together as ye travelled. You have an excellent voice, and it ought never to be tuned to profaner notes. — Did he not often warn you to beware of the allurements of women? Pity you did not observe his admonitions on that head as stridlly as you Seem inclined tp follow his' doctrine in respedt of fighting •**
“It is you, my Lord, who are now jocular; and’faith I am glad of it. In Spite of your farcasm, I own that L am no friend to duelling; and certainly have imbibed So much morality as to believe that the re fiedtion of being a murderer must be a terrible one.”
Oh I
  137
Oh! this is past jesting— — did imagine that your astonishing composure Sprang from Something not right, and would at last dwindle into, mere pusillanimity. By Heaven, the advice you gave shall be revenged! — Julia Herbert shall be metamor phosed into that kind mistress you bade me
Seek -- -- Her disgust to you henceforward
will work the change, and be the conse quence of Such palpable cowardice. I will exercise this weapon — not in pointing it at your breast — but in giving you the chastisement we infiidt on those beneath us. Then shall my Julia be informed what a valiant proteffor she had erroneoussy made choice of, — thou deceitful, cowardly boy!” — A little before he ended his Speech, the Marquis unsheathed his Sword; and as the Duke was advancing to execute his cursed threat, he exclaimed,
“Dare not, for your soul, Suffolk, attempt it — or, by that Heaven you named, 1 will instantly lay you a corpse at my feet!” — The Duke, as it were, mechanically retreated a few paces back — There was an energy in osmond’s voice — a majesty in his
138 M AS QUER AD E S; or, deportment. Sufficient to strike awe into
the most intrepid bystander“
“Westbrook, ” cried he, “I call on you to Say, whether I have not, to the utmost of my power, evaded a rencontre? Were I, after this insolence, to with hold my arm, 1 should merit the brutal disgrace he has dared even to menace osmond with. — Still I wish not, ” turning to the Duke, “to take your life — Be more composed, or you lose all chance of ever again breathing an affront towards any man.” -- -- They engaged,
and just as their duel approached the period, you entered.”
I chid Westbrook for not having informed me of the appointment: he vindicated himself, and rejoiced most sincerely that the Marquis was not in the duke’s condition.
When Suffolk was put to bed, and all the company that was invited to this unlucky entertainment had departed (which happened very Soon after the fray became public), we went to the Ladies — The first obje<5b that struck my eyes was Charlotte Pelham on her knees to Lady Mortimer. I approached my wife, and ashed the cause.
“I really
I
1
I
WHAT Y OU WILL. 139
‘'I really know not, ” she answered, “why she should be in that position, unless she as sumes it with a design to keep me from my mother, whom she is asraid Lshall prevail on to be reconciled to the Marquis — But, is my suspicion injures her, she must be distracted; for she calls on me to implore Lord osmond to pity, and not abandon her. — She it was who first gave intelligence of the duel — alarmed Julia in a cruel manner — and has by Some means violently irritated my mother against her. raise her, my Lord, and persuade her to disgrace her Sex no further — I must give my attention to persons for whom I am nearly concerned.” She passed on to the upper end of the room; and, when I had Seated the mischievous girl, and given her to the care of Some female domestics, I followed Caroline to the place where Lady Pemberton and the rest were assembled. I perceived that her Ladyship was violently agitated. The Duke of Northington Sat near her, to whom she addressed her conversation in a low voice. osmond was walking backwards and forwards the apartment with hasty steps — his arms folded — his countenance pale, and
marked
#
140 MAS QJJ ERADES; or,
marked with despair and horror. Julia was Seated in a remote corner of the room: Lady Caroline denley’s arms were thrown around her, and on her compashonate bo. Some rested the beautiful face of the ashid ed creature, whilst Emily Edgcumb held one of her hands, which she bathed with tears. I approached Lady Pemberton, and begged to know why she should be So exceedingly affected at a catastrophe which Suffolk brought upon himself, and but too well merited? What gives me most wretchedness at present, my Lord, ” cried she, “is finding that Julia, whom I always thought the most amiable of mortals, has thrown aside duty and discretion — she has, by giving clandestine encouragement to a man I will have no alliance with, rendered herself worthy only of contempt — she has caused him to imbrue his hands in the blood of the admirable Suffolk *, an objet beloved by her brother and me — the husband, she well knew, we had allotted for her.”
“How injuriousty.does your Ladyship Speak of her! — Ah, Madam, she is the very amiable being you always thought her! — On my soul, she was ignorant of the
quarrel
  141
quarrel — Suffolk has been wholly to blame on the occasion — he behaved like a russian, and gave Such provocation, as was inconsistent with a man of honour not to resent.” Supposing she was ignorant that a fray would ensue between the Duke and her favourite osmond, can you, my Lord, exculpate her for listening to the love he uttered without my sanction?? — is impossible! — Say no more— — has deceived me.” — — I left Caroline to plead her sister’s cause with the angry mother, and went to Julia. 1 took the hand that miss Edgcumb held; 1 beshught her to look up — to Speak to me; and Said Something of comfort. — She raised her head — “Ah, my brother !” cried she, what comfort can you afford me? I have lost every prospedt of it entirely! — my mother is offended — she will never pardon me !” ‘‘ Then she must
be the most unreasonable of women! Do not be uneasy; this silly affair will be of no consequence — you shall yet be happy with your osmond.” “Call him not mine — he is guilty — he has Sent an unprepared creature to answer at the tribunal of justice for crimes imthought of — Ah, my Lord, in how culpable
142 MAS (LUER ADES; or,
pable a light has he been painted to me!” “Perdition Sei: ?e the wretch who was So officious! For god’s Sake, my dearest Julia, do not suppose him guilty — He was urged, to the defence he made by the most illiberal language that ever tongue uttered — On your account he refrained from drawing, till his' gallant Spirit could bear no more in sult with impunity — Suffolk yet lives; but, was it otherwise, the Marquis could not be arraigned, since the Duke, In aiming to put a period to the life of his rival, lost his own, though warned against the danger by his generous antagonist. — If you have any charity in your nature, any love for of mond, I conjure you not to add to his dif tress by thinking unworthily of him! — At a leisure moment you shall hear the whole; in the meanwhile, take it upon my honour
that he is innocent.” -- - “Ah, my poor
osmond!” she exclaimed, and again Sunk upon Lady Caroline denley’s bosom. — I went to the Marquis : “How is it, my best friend ?” demanded I. He answered“ “is with me, as with a man plunging into hell, destitute of hope, and tasting the beginning torments of the damned — Oh J
would
>
v
\
YOU WILL. 143
would to God I had received the. fatal thrust in suffolk’s stead !” “Exert your
fortitude, my dear osmond, ” cried I; “make one effort. I will accompany you to Lady Pemberton — the storm of passion in her breast shall be appeased— — will af sail her with prayers — The Duke of north ington’s influence must gain her to our party — he is fond of Julia, and will Supplicate in her cause — She will consent, and yield my sister to your arms.”
“I have already tried to vindicate my conduct,, ” he; “she will not hear me — Julia has also cast me off, and now hates me for destroying the insolent fellow who urged the combat.”
Ah, osmond, pity the unhappy girl 1 — If she has shown you displeasure, know that it was because Some poisonous tongue accsised you of being the Sole aggressor. Julia is undeceived, and ready to be yours, if Lady Pemberton acquiesces. To her you shall again pour forth entreaties — you shave many advocates !” — He advanced towards her Ladyship, and, throwing himself on one knee, grasped her hand — he entreated
%
i
\
144 MAS (LU ERADES; or,
treated her to forgive him for what, if he had not acted, she must have despised him. He begged her to reflect on the misery that would attend her daughter in a union with one whom she was averse to. He described his passion for Julia in the liveliest colours, and began from its commencement at the convent. He took upon himself the, whole blame of her having concealed his declaration of it, and gave his reasons. He painted his father’s avaricious turn of mind, which would not be Satisfied with less fortune than Lady henrietta’s — — his apprehension of Lady pemberton’s contemning him as a match for Julia, v»ihen put in comparison with the more eligible Suffolk — yet he implored her to consider, that a hoard of treasure could not give relief to a wounded heart — and that Lady Julia, whose Soul was Sensible, and most truly delicate, would feel a load of mi sery under a load of jewels, in the idea of her wearing them at the expense of a man she hated. He Said, a variety of Superb dwellings — a number of Splendid carriages, —
and a throng of tinsell’d attendants, might
gratify
  145
ratify the ambition of a less refined woman than Lady Julia — but that he was mough acquainted with her excellence, to pronounce, that, though Surrounded by the most gaudy pageantry, peace would be a stranger to her breast; and, he was well convinced, she would look forward with impatience to her gaining poffeshon of that little Space, of earth, where her lovely form would lie at rest, till the last trumpet called it forth— — — cannot give you half the particulars of his discourse; but he Spoke in So amiable, So touching a manner, that Lady Pemberton listened attentively, and viewed him with complacency. I thought the moment not unfavourable; and flying towards Julia, I led her trembling to the Spot where her lover Suppliantly' knelt — there we both assumed his attitude — osmond caught her hand, and conjured Lady Pemberton to bestow it on him — Julia besought her forgiveness— — I entreated her to make them both happy. Caroline was not an idle
spedtatress -- Westbrook, Lady Caroline
Denley, Emily Edgeumb, and even bude nall, joined their voices in my Supplication, The Duke of Northington, contrary to my
yol.hl H 'hopes,
t
146
hopes, was Silent; but I believe we should have Succeeded, had not the incensed Pemberton entered at the instant. He came from suffolk’s apartment, full of resentment towards Julia — indignation and hatred towards osmond. As he drew near, he exclaimed, “Your Ladyship is Surrounded by petitioners — you. must be pained — for what is more irksome than to be implored a favour that cannot possibly be granted? I will free you, at least, from one of them; ” and he Snatched up Julia in his arms; “Inhuman brother!” she cried, as he carried her off, “will you not let me obtain my mother’s pardon ?” “tomorrow you will have leisure enough for it, ” he answered. He desired his wife and Almeria to See her conveyed to her chamber. “Pemberton, ” Said osmond, “why is So much barbarity exercised on So gentle an objet? — Inhuman brother indeed !” “If your Lordship chuses a tilting lout with me also, you will find me much at your Service — I am Somewhat of a fwordsman, though not near So expert a one as the Lord osmond; yet fortune may for once be propitious, and render me more Successful than Suffolk was — if not,
I shall
%
  147
I shall be contented to die in revenging the cause of my friend.”
“My Lord, ” exclaimed the Marquis, never will I raise my arm against Lady julia’s brother — So far from menacing, behold me an humble Suppliant — to you. Lord Pemberton! am 1 a Suppliant — Give your sister — the angel Julia — to one who considers the promotion of her happiness as his chief good — to a man whose whole life shall be employed in studying how to
make her blessed — who will with” - — -
“No, ” replied the other; “by Heaven you shall not call her yours — at least with my consent. The silly girl would be equally averse to the union, did she but know that the scantiness of her fortune, after it had taken place, would cause her to be Spurned at by the Duke of Westmoreland. Your notions, I believe, are Something more generous — still” - — 1 will interrupt you in turn, Pemberton, ” cried I: “I have a proposal to offer, which must render all matters easy. It is no Secret that you are tied down, and cannot make as ample provision for your Sisters, as your wishes would prompt you to do — 1 am under no Such
f? .2 tyrannic
«
1^8
f
^ ^ - f - ' ■
tyrannic restridtion — consent to her marriage with the Marquis, and, to Satisfy his father, I will this instant bind myself to pay on the joyful day that Sees them united, into osmond’s hands, the ten thousand pounds 1 received with Caroline, and to that Sum kwill add ten thousand pounds.” — It shall not stop there, my dear Mortimer, ” Said Westbrook: “in the same hour, osmond shall have from me ten thousand pounds more. My cousin’s happiness is at stake, and we can well afford it. The Duke can then have no wish but for the connec
- r
tion — By all that is Sacred, Pemberton, they must not be Severed !”
osmond clasped his hands — “My generous friends, what acknowledgments can I express, that will show the gratitude of my heart! — Never were there greater proofs of regard! — But it must not be — I cannot consent to So kind a proposal. — If Lord Pemberton will do me the honour of bestowing his lovely sister on me, my father shall never approach her. My circumstances, independent of him, are certainly very circuitiscribed; yet 1 may safely aver,
they will Satisfy my Julia. refle<st a little,
my
4
  149
my Lord, and your objedlions may Subside. Dear Lady Pemberton, what do you Say She looked at her Son, and, perceiving in his countenance aversion to the noble youth, answered, “I recommend to your Lordship to drop the affair — it is impolsible for me ever to comply !*^ — “I have already pronounced my determination, ” cried Pemberton; “and nothing shall make me alter it.” -- -- Oh, that my poor father was
alive !” exclaimed Caroline. ‘‘ And what if he was ?” demanded her brother. “Why then he would more mildly use that authority as a parent, which you have arrogated to yourself as a brother.” He was highly displeased. I See the consquences, ” cried Lady Pemberton, “that will happen from this girj’s imprudence — my family, that has hitherto been one of harmony, will get into parties — nothing but distentions shall I be witness of.”
“When your Ladyship, ” replied Caroline, “centres you astedtion Solely in your Son, - and, to please his unjust caprices, will devote your daughters to wretchedness, it must be So. — Great God be praised, that I, got out of his power before this change,
H 3^ this
4
150 M AS(^UER ADES; or,
this monstrous change in his disposition happened! — How comes it, Pemberton r— — were once Soft, and benevolent — has your wife used any arts proper for the end to Set you at variance with your sisters.? — Poor man! if So, I pity you.’* The Duke of Northington Said Something in vindication of his absent daughter, and was about to reprove her, when she interrupted him— — “entreat your grace’s pardon — but this is no time for lectures foreign to the present purpose — You have been very silent, my Lord, on the fubject near our hearts. If you join not in our Supplication, pray create no greater obstacles to its success I” — I never Saw any one look more vexed and mortified than Pemberton did at the conclusion of the Speech she addressed to him. — She turned to her mother, with a Sweet en thusiasm fell at her feet, cksped her knees, and, raising up her eyes, exclaimed, “Dear Madam, be still our parent — Suffer not that feeling, tender heart of yours to be warped by the example of others inhumanity — Suffer it to plead in our behalf 1 — Make our amiable Julia blessed, and you will bestow
felicity unspeakable on Almeria, my husband.

  151
band, Westbrook, - and your Caroline — Think, my mother, how many will become unhappy, if the moody humour of your
Son is to be gratified! -- My generous
Mortimer, my kind cousin, have found an expedient that will remove all difficulties -- As you wish not to behold
my poor Julia an object of compassion, I conjure you to grant me the favour I alk! -- Say that you do, and let me run to rejoice her with the tidings !’* “rise, Lady Mortimer, ” she coldly replied: “I am not to be didtaced to — Shall I reward the man who deprives of life a person whom I warmly regard; and that, the minute aster he has committed the crime — even now when jus tice should be in pursuit of him! — Assure yourself,, will not be So weak. — You have Spoken too freely to me; I shall not readily pardon it.” She arose and left the room. Caroline and Pemberton were warm in altercation, till osmond. begged he might no longer give rise to it. He desired Pemberton to look on him as his prisoner; the other refused it, and abruptly quitted him. The miserable osmond threw himself on the fioor, and Seemed totally insensible to all
H 4 around
152 M A SQ, UERA desj or,
around him. Lady Mortimer retired to julia’s apartment, to observe how she was Situated, after promising me, that, if she was capable of it, she would prevail on her to write him a line of tenderness, and beg of him to avoid being taken by those who would endeavour to revenge on him the duke’s fate. I went to my wretched friend, whom Budenall and Montague were trying to awaken from the trance into which he had fallen. 1 ashsted, but no arts we could life had any effect. At length. Lady Mortimer returned; and, as she approached him, he fixed his eyes on her with eagerness— — her his Julia. — and besought her to sty with him directly. She wept bitterly at the melancholy condition she Saw him in — he perceived it, and exclaimed. Is this proposal ever to be the cause of tears? — Ah, my dear love, you know their power! — I cannot bear to See you afflicted- -- no more, my Julia! — we will look forward to brighter prospedts. When Lady Pemberton and the Duke consent to reward our love, where shall we Spend the first fortnight of our marriage? My father will expect us to visit him in
Hamp
\
W H A T Y O H WI L L
, *
Hampshire— — will prefer passing it ac your mother’s — you shall be gratified— —
Pemberton must receive us -- -- -- Or
stay — suppose we settle it thus — Mortimer and Caroline will be anxious to have us
with them till your house in -- What still
weeping, my dearest Julia! — Ah, how yoa< make me Suffer!” He paused for some minutes; then Suddenly starting on his elbow, again went on : “Faith we are thankful to Westbrook for this Sweet opportunity — no, to Mortimer,.! believe— —! not which — my ideas are confused — Suffolk, pushed hard to have my beloved in his. • chaise — How cursed fast the fellows drive S they will too Soon put an end to the felicity'' I enjoy 1^^ — Nay, I will no more be reproved. — one kifs — one dear kiss! — why do 'yous chide me — this is prudery. Sweet girl --; Ah h they already stop, my Julia! -- Ave hiusfe: part — oh misery !” He grew osttrageousg,, and uttered the most incoherent madncss* imaginable. Frederick Montague proposed: that a Surgeon should take. Some blood, from; his arm : • with difficulty he bri^athed a vein, and, after the loss of many ouncesj. he came himself. It was then strongly, moved;
H 5, ill at:
r
j54
that he should direduy leave windsor, let out for one of the nearest ports, and from thence embark for France, where he should remain till the affair was in Some measure hushed. He was totally averse to it — alked what business he had with life? and whether it would not be better that he should yield it up to the law, than to be expiring for years, harassed with anguish excruciating, and beyond a martyr’s Suffering “How equal we are, ” cried I, “to any calamity, whilst we have no dread of its reaching us I Did I not, osmond, hear you, a few hours ago. Swear to Julia, that no misfortune should shake your constancy — that for her you would Support life?” “You put a wrong construdhon on my words 1 alluded to my attachment — To live divested of hope, of ever again beholding her, is above mortal ability“ “there, my good friend, ” cried Lady Mortimer, presenting him with a billet, “and then judge if you are at liberty to destroy an existence on which another depends.” The writing had more esse ft on him than would the pleading of an hundred tongues, though each was Superior to a cicero^s. Westbrook,
who
#
>
^ WHAT Y O U W r LD
♦
who had withdrawn to prepare himseif, and to order a carriage, entered, and proposed that Lord osmond should change his drels„ and Set out immediately — 'He hesitated— — the fifth or Sixth time perused his billec — kissed it as often — whispered shmething to Caroline — and then; turning to us. Said, he was ready to do whatever his excellent: friends recommended. “Budenall, ” cried he, though my rival, you have compas sion on my Sufferings — you have long discovered my affection for Lady Julia — your disinterested, generous Soul never laid one barrier in my way, or uttered a suspicior^ to any one — Let me presume to ash a. con -- tinuance of your regard !’* “If forget,
my Lord, ’’teplied Budenall, “never Gan, the obligation I am under to you— —. Montague, have you not oftem heard me declare,, that to the Marquis I: am indebted for preserving my life — was it not for him, I should One night at Florence have fallen a victim. to two assashns,, who, it afterwards appeared, mistook me for Lord Rainsford — I was nearly overpowered by themj when osmond, chancing: to past that way, distinguished the, voice of
H 6 a per*
L
I ' M ASQ.UERADES; or,
a person calling for help — He came to my rescue, desperately wounded one of the vil lains, and put the other to flight — yet this action he treats as of no consequence — he calls me disinterested — generous— — my God! could I do too much to make him happy! — Believe me, my dear osmond, I ceased to be your competitor from the moment I perceived what bent your inclinations had taken — I esteemed, I admired your virtues from my earliest acquaintance with you — you alone I think deserving of the amiable woman we both prefer — and to you alone would I ever have resigned her,, putting gratitude entirely out of the question. Look on me during life as your friend -- a Sympathising one I shall ever be - — — Would it were in my power to prevail cn Lady Julia to be the companion of your present flight! -- but perhaps it is best that it should not be So — Keep up your Spirits -- be careful of yourself as you value her happiness— — rest assured, that you will yet be happy in the pofleshon of her — If I can in any shape whatever be of use to you, dome the pleasure of commanding me.” of mond embraced and thanked him; then
re tired
a
• • • «
^   157
retired to change his dress, and give Some orders to Souville. Westbrook and Montague determined to accompany him. There was more of caution in our Urging osmond’s absence, than any absolute neceshty there was for it. If Suffolk dies, and he stands his trial, he must, I tlfink, on the oaths of Westbrook, Jack Ainssey, and myself, be acquitted — however, his departure from hence was a circumstance most proper in his Situation.
As we with i.ord Ofmond were crossinsr the Saloon to get to the carriage, Chrrlotte Pelham rushed in — Sell at the marquis’s feet, and, encircling his knees with her arms, declared, if he left her, she would expire on the Spot. He begged her tq consider the impropriety of So condesccnding a ^ behaviour — assured her that he would always think gratefully of the flattering distinction she honoured him with; and implored her not to render the obligations he owed her more painful to him than they already were, by persisting in a partiality that it was plain he was not deserving ofi Ah, my Lord !” exclaimed.she, “you little know to what lengths my ungovernable
\
158 MAS Q_U £ R A D E S; o r, ^
able love has hurried me! — It was I— — slighted Charlotte Pelham, who plunged you into a Sea of woe! — osmond, can you pardon me? — It was I who inspired Suffolk with jealousy — who urged him to call you out! — Dear osmond, be patient, whilst I add,, that it was I who informed Lady Julia of the duel — that you Sought it! — who almost killed her, and rejoiced at the prospect— — was the incendiary who exasperated Lady Pemberton with you both — I told her of clandestine meetings which you never had — I told her, that, to get rid of suffolk’s addresses, she incited you to rob him of life nhat I overheard your conversation — and that after Supper was the time fixed on — all this 1 mentioned when I informed her that you and Suffolk had fought S — My motive was revenge — revenge on you for your cruelty — on Lady Julia for depriving me of your heart. — But when you entered the room, and 1 beheld your grief, deep repentance filled my breast — The avowal I have made is a proof of it -- Do not execrate me — however culpable, I have this excuse to offer, that my passion for you impelled me to undertake so unworthy a part. — You
are'
WHAT. YOU WILL. 159
iare about to fly — you hold me in contempt! — Dear osmond, pity — and forgive me He had often attempted to raise her, but in vain — I was fearsul that his arm might bleed, and begged him to desist — He was overcome, and, threw himself on budenall’s shoulder — “I pardon you. Madam he cried; “but you must leave me.”
“osmond, can you be So inhuman! — • Leave you! — Ah, my beloved Lord, you cannot pardon, and enjoin Such a command at the Same time! — Forgivenels appears not under that Sentence — Let it come from your heart; and Suffer me, dear osmond, — Suffer me to attend you in your flight i’*’ “Death and confusion! — do I hear aright— — utter madness Surely !” and he precipitately motioned towards the door She followed, and again clasped his knees I disengaged her hold, and, lifting her in my arms, was conveying her to the apartment of her mother, when meeting her sister, who was come in Search of her, I recommended to her to prevent the girl from exposing herself in Such a manner. miss Pelham was in tears, and expressed infinite concern for ail the disturbance Charlotte
had occasioned — she strove to compose her,
but
#
tso MAS (LU ERA D E S j oit..
no lioness, robbed of her young, was ever more furious. I left her to give vent to her virulence, and was returning to my friend, when Lady Mortimer called to me from her dressing-room. “Here, my Lord, ” Said she, “give this to Lord osmond — his a miniature of Julia— — resemblance is striking. Tell him that with it I present him my best wishes, but that I cannot undergo the pain of bidding him adieu.” I embraced her, praised her Sensibility, and fiew with the welcome gift to osmond. I found him in the coach. I had just time to deliver my commission, and bade him fare well. He was unable to Speak, and only grasped my hand; but I can easily imagine what passed in his breast. The excellent miss Edgcumb entreated Sir James not to leave him, till he has acquired fortitude enough to bear the calamities that Surround him with moderation. He is aecompaniest by two worthy and feeling friends — — may their attention and delicacy inspire him with comfort!; You will,, perhaps, be surprised at my telling you, that, in the hurry and' confusion we were in to get the diabolical Charlotte away, I failed to inquire, and' they to inform me, whither their rout was
destined
  ii
destined — but in a Sew hours hence I hope to receive an express from Westbrook, When the carriage was out of sight, I
repaired to the apartment of julia they
had put her to bed. As I entered, I Saw Mournies on her knees — her elbows rested on a chair — her hands Supported her head • — tears streamed fast down her cheeks. I Spoke to her, and inquired for her Lady“ “my Lord, ” cried she in French, — for she does not Speak English fluently, — - “the poor child is very ill— — since her Sister persuaded her to write a few lines, she has neither wept, expressed a word, or taken notice of anything.” “Has she been worse Jince.^ than she was when she first entered her room I really do not
know — she did not Seem So entirely stupefied — she Spoke a little wijdly to young Lady Pemberton, and fainted two of three times — she appeared exceedingly disturbed at the sight of her — Once she called me, and whispered a fear, that she should say Something wrong, which her brother would hear of, and begged me, if possible, to prevent her — I was Sorely grieved — I advised the ladies to retire, and let her try to steep. They went out; which my Lady observing
beckoned
162 MAS(^U ERADES; or,
beckoned me to her — threw her arms round my neck — called me her good and faithful Mournies — then Sighing Said, she should not trouble me long!” — — She got into Such a fit of crying, as not to be capable of articulating another word. I advanced to the inside of the bed, and Saw Caroline Sitting by her pillow, and miss Edgcumb at her feet. “Here is our dear Mortimer, my Julia, ” exclaimed Caroline; “pray Speak to him.” She opened her eyes, and stretched forth her hand — ■
“Well, my brother, is he gone ?”
“He is, my dear Julia; and, for your sake, will be careful of himself. He charged me with a thbusand tender things to you — to bless you for him, for that kind billet which brought him back to life and reason — and to tell you that he exists only on the hope of being yet yours.”
“He is gone, my Lord! — Ah, osmond, thou art gone for ever! — never shall these eyes again behold you — never shall 1 listen to you more! — What a heart is mine that it does not break at the idea! — I thank heaven that you retain in your generous bosom the deceiver hope! — it will preserve you to those who know, and value your
amazing
y
  i6j
amazing worth — but from hence — you are lost to the miserable Julia!”
I endeavoured to console her — to prevail on her to banish Such a thought. I begged her to be composed, and emulate the example of her lover, who considered it as unsuitable with his great Soul to despair.
I am composed, you See! — not one tear” — rubbing her cheeks alternately with her Snowy hand — “not even a single tear falls as a tribute to this Separation — — Caroline sheds many — So does Emily — can they feel more for osmond than his Julia “For a few minutes she was silent; then, catching my hand with both of hers, exclaimed, — But tell me, my brother — you are the only one I acknowledge — tell me, was it not cruel to force me away from him, before I could pronounce the heartrending word Farewell? — Lord Mortimer! in Such a situation as I was, I should have pitied the poorest creature — aye, though she had stained the honour of her family — I should have commiserated the pangs she
endured -- and have Suffered her to Say
Farewell!” — Again she paused— — then
proceeded —
‘‘ But,
j64
I
“But, God be praised! my conduct has never been culpable. In loving of mond, I loved the most amiable of mankind. If I was So publicly to be expelled the presence of all I held dear, why was ■not Caroline, or Emily, permitted to accompany me ?■ — It would have been too merciful — I was committed prisoner to one, who would not fail to repeat to her enraged husband the least unguarded expreshon that wretchedness rnight extort from my lips — * Where is Mournies, my Lord
She appeared before her — an astonishing wildness became visible in julia’s eyes — Ihe began to utter her words with qiiickness — and her breath grew short.
“I want to know, my dear Mournies, ” Said she, “whether I expressed anything faulty for which I shall be condemned by Lady Pemberton — by her Son? — My head was giddy — but I meant no offence to anyone — I have no animosity in my breast. Heaven can tell. answer, Mournies.”
“Alas, my dearest young Lady! who can be offended with Such sweetness
Why every one can but Lord and Lady Mortimer— — he — whom I shall never

WHAT YOU, WILL. 165
ver See again! — Think you, my friend, that all are as partial to me as you are .'*”
You Said nothing, my excellent Lady, but what was gentle as is your own heart.”
“That was well 1 — and now call Caroline to me.”
“I am here, my dear Julia; — what would you Say
“In truth I forgot — and all the little fense I have left, is just enough to know that you my brother — and Emily, want rest — I pray ye all to Seek it.”
It was in vain to think of it, whilst it was to her a stranger. — i used every means to make her weep : — it was to no purpose; she was very feverish, and became absolutely delirious. Lady Mortimer and miss Edgcumb never left her bed’s side; nor did I, till a Summons obliged me to quit her apartment. It was, from Mrs. Pelham, who was about to leave windsor, and who desired to see me, that she might apologise for the confusion her daughter had created.
I did not behold Charlotte, and most arr dently hope that iny eyes may never be mortified with the sight of So cursed an obr jest. I pity miss Pelham, whose grief for
whac
t66
what had happened was great. She is an amiable girl.
Emily Edgcumb just now informed me, that, as she and Julia were walking up and down the great room, waiting for their partner’s return, they heard a prodigious murmur, and Saw a great bustle amongst the company. Perplexity and horror appeared in almost every countenance. Julia inquired the occasion, of the person she first met, who unluckily proved to be Charlotte Pelham.
“Good God !” cried she, “I am astonished that your Ladyship of all people should alk Such a question.” “Why So ?” demanded Julia. “because you cannot possibly be ignorant of the duel that has been fought on your account.”
“A duel — and on my account \ — For mercy sake, dear Madam, let me comprehend you !”
“Your Ladyship, ” replied the malignant girl, “is certainly the first adtress in the yrbrld 1 — you represent Nature to perfection — Soi Said when you played sigismunda — Lord osmond equals you in the Same line
!nota Soul but could have Sworn Tancred
was
  167
was the real distracted lover, in his own person, of Lady Julia Herbert — nota soul but could have Sworn, that sigismunda, divested of her borrowed character, was the fond maid she pretended that she knew no attachment — that she breathed not a
wish but for Lord osmond” -- --
“What means this untimely rallery ?” — “Now, who but myself, that “know the arts of wilful woman labouring for her purpose, ” could imagine this terror affected— — but myself would penetrate to the bottom of this well adled curiosity? Who else could be convinced that you are too well acquainted with the horrid affair — that you have been the instrument of a fatal quarrel, which has deprived the most unparagon’d of his Sex of life, and caused an amiable man either to fly his country, or to Submit to a violent fate ?”
“Who has done this ?” cried the trembling Julia; “not I — ah, Madam, not I !’* “Your Ladyship is conscience stricken! — By your instigations Lord Ofrnond challenged the Duke of Suffolk — For the first time Lord osmond committed a fault — but,
circumstances weighed, it ought in a great
measure
/
i68, M A S duer ADES; OR,
measure to be excused, and the blame be thrown on her in whom it originated — In a word (since you will have me repeat the affair;, the Marquis very brutally provoked the Duke to go out with him — they sought,
and’* — -- --
She had not time to finish her barbarous Sentence — Julia fainted — all ssevy to her relief, and in Some minutes brought her back to life. When that was accomplished, miss Edgcumb took notice that Charlotte fastened herself to Lady pemberton’s ear, as mil ton’s devil did to eve’s, and it is evident with a no less mischievous intent. The amiable Julia, meaning to Seek comfort from her mother, drew near to her; but, instead of it, she met the sharpest rebukes. She reproached her with dishmulation — imprudence; — bid her leave her, and never to expect that she should have any further confidence in her. — A Second time she fainted — her mother beheld it without emotion
%
■ — Lady Caroline Denley Supplied the place of one — almost every female was busied in recovering and assisting her. They had Scarcely effected it, when Lord osmond entered — at the sight of him she hid her
face
\
I
  169
face in Lady caroline’s bosom — Ah, Madam, ” whispered she, “he lives! — thank Heaven he lives! — But he is now a murderer — let me not behold him — ungrateful osmond! — what reason had he to make himself thus unworthy of” -- -- Lord OSMOND
came up to her: he took one of her hands, which she immediately withdrew -- her eyes she kept averted from him. He Spoke with tenderness inconceivable — she waved her hand, and desired him instantly to quit her. He begged only to be allowed to vindicate his conduct — she repeated her' command; and he, with the utmost reluctance, was forced to obey. He then addressed Lady Pemberton, who would not hear him, as I before mentioned. In Some time after Westbrook and I came in — you know the rest.
every one left windsor this morning, excepting the Herbert family. Lady Caroline Denley, Miss Edgcumb, Suffolk, and Jack Ainssey. — The Duke lives; but that is all — we have no hopes of him. H — - — s and
A -- -- r, who were Sent for, arrived about
ten o’clock. On examining his wounds,. they confirmed our fears rtspeding him,
vol 111. I Another
'*
tyo
Ariother viftirn the merciless grave Seems to gape for — you will shudder when 1 name Julia Herbert to be the one. She is, in my opinion, dangeroussy ill. A most Severe fever has attacked her; and she continues in the delirious way I mentioned, with this difference, that she has not a moment’s interval of reason. Her mother, just now, hearing of the piteous condition she has been in ail the day, consented to see her. The appearance of her must have brought remorse to her heart for the tranf aistions of a few past hours. She Spoke tenderly to Julia, who was at the time as ignorant of its being Lady Pemberton, as she would have been of a person she never beheld.
Her Ladyship reported to her Son the melancholy situation she was in — this was his kind reply: “The mere artifice of a plotting girl to gain her point! Julia is wonderfully clever! God forbid she should be as ill as your Ladyship thinks her! Believe it on my word, she will shortly recover, if there is no notice taken of her delirium.”
In this manner does he persist to judge
of
/
♦ *•
%
  tyi
of one Superior to contrivance or finesse. Ere he awakens from his error, perhaps — but I will not anticipate the worst of evils! Should she die. Some there are who would be justly punished in their own feelings for their barbarity — The lovely girl.would be released from a load of misery, which, if she recovers, must be horrible to Support — osmond, I think, can never be hers;, and I am Satisfied, death, in all his terrific forms, they would each prefer to Such a certainty. Those most to be compaffion ated are the persons who know her excellence — who endeavoured to make her happy — and who will, in a Sudden manner almost, weep over her corpse. -- -- 1 am uneasy
about Caroline, whose condition renders her a very improper object to undergo Such acute distress as she is liable to experience.
No tidings have yet arrived from Westbrook. With the hope of giving you further information of our friend, I have kept my letter open to the last moment— — is now nine o’clock. There is Some consolation in the thought of osmond’s being ignorant of the dreadful way his Julia is in — a mise
I 2 table
• »
172
rable pair they are indeed! 1 know not
how the Duke will behave on hearing the particulars of his ion’s constud. You had best, dear Montague, take upon yourself the disagreeable talk of imparting to him what you think requisite of the late proceeding. You are well acquainted with his Grace; and no one is So well qualified for Such an office. I shall be glad to receive a line from you to say in what manner he bears it. — tomorrow I will write again. — I am, with much Sincerity,
Your affectionate friend,
Mortimer.
- ■
\ <
ITS

«
/
  173
%
To Sir Charles Montague.
w'
Windsor Thursday Evening.
An express has brought me a letter
from Westbrook, which I Shall en ciose, as you will best judge of the situation of Lord osmond. H -- -- -- -- -- -- s and
A -- -- -- -- r find no change in Suffolk; burr,
from his holding out So much longer than they expected, they begin to have a glimmering of hope that he may recover. From appearances i should fuppose it impossible. Fie is in shilful hands; and, is it is in nature to Save him, the two gentlemen I have named well effect it.
Last night, 'after I had dispatched George with my packet, I joined Lady Caroline Den lay. Lord Pemberton, his mother, and wife. I found Lady Caroline reasoning with him on the absurdity of his notion concerning Julia — He obstinately maintained the opinion he had before expressed, that her illness was all a feint to excite pity, and cause the Marquis to be recalled. La.
. 3 dj
\
174
dy Caroline told him it was incumbent on him to prove the strength of his suspicion, by visiting her apartment — A valuable life would probably be lost for want of care; and then to allege that he thought her disorder affected, would be a mean excuse in >deed! I adored her for the generous warmtii with which she Spoke: Pemberton consented to follow her advice; and we accompanied him to julia’s chamber — He .advanced towards the bed, and, Seating himself on it, thus addressed her :
Come, my dear Julia— — me now to beg, that you will exert your good sense, and consider the impropriety of giving way to Such unavailing grief— — mother no longer remembers the foible she reproached you for — I come to Solicit your pardon for my hastiness — you will forgive me, 1 am Sure, dear Julia.”
“Who calls ?” cried she; “Sir James! — You gave my letter to louisa — she must tell Sir Charles with caution that his friend is murdered — he cannot bear it as I do I — Oh! my cousin, why did you not stop
suffolk’s inhuman hand ?” -
Pembertost touched her arm: “My
God!”
j
  175
God!” exclaimed he, ” how she burns! — She has a violent fever” — • “Not at all, ^’ cried Caroline, -- ^ Vr'j all artifice -- \^2at her to herself, and her Sufferings both of mind and body will Soon be over!” — She burst into tears — ‘‘ I too justly deserve that retort, Lady Mortimer, ” he replied; 1 behaved
unkindly — but do not add to my mortification.” — He again Spoke to Julia; she paid him no attention, but continued to wander in the Same strain.
“A troop of celestial Spirits, robed in white garments. Surround him -- -- -- -- hyacinths,
violets, and roses in their hands — they compose a wreath of orange flowers — they crown him with it — Ofmond! though,
in heaven, forget me not — Ah, my Lord, you look on me with contempt! — you a bandon me for ever — you know I always
hated Suffolk -- -- Oh, Ofmond! — I cannot
bear it.” — For a few minutes she was Silent — but every feature gave evidence that her heart laboured under a mighty conflict— — length, she exclaimed,
I have discovered the place on earth which contains my osrnond — I have found
him....oh torment! -- -- -- distradlton to my
I 4 senses
j76 MASQ, ueradesj or,
senses — — I have found him — but found him the husband of Charlotte Pelham I — Was it your choice, my Lord? — You need not — I know your love — your constancy too well I — it was the Duke of Westmoreland
obliged you to it -- -- We shall never meet
again -- -- Dear osmond I farewell -- -- farewell
for ever! -- -- -- -- -- — -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Hark! what divine shunds strike my ear!
-- -- again— — — grows more ravishingly
Sweet — — my new friends are trying to Soothe my anguish — ah, what goodness !- — Are the Sorrows of a poor insignificant girl worthy of being thought on by the great God of worlds I — Does he deign to make his Elect tune their cymbals — and warble forth melodious^notes, to comfort the heart
of Julia Herbert! -- -- -1 will not lose a
Sound — Poor osmond! -- -- -- but hush !” —
She Seemed to listen for Some time -- -
and then returned to her former rambling method of Speaking. pemberton’s breast
was Sorely penetrated -- He immediately
Sent a courier for Doctor W -- -- -, whose
assistance I should have demanded earlier, but that Lord Pemberton, when I proposed it to him, besought me not to aid the girl’s
farce
*
t
/'
I
t
  ryf
m
farce So euregioiistyr I did not chuie to bethought officious, and lest him to do as he: pleased.
When WO arrived, which was not till six o’clock this morning, he found his patient in a deplorable way — He addressed her with that gentleness for which he is famed — he begged her to inform him where her pain lay?
Once I was sick, ” she answered — I
fainted — There is a person -- -- -- would youi
think it.. Budenall? — “there is a person who delights in Surprising — in disturb ing my wretched head — But you are not Lord Budenall^ — nor Sir lames — nor are: you that hateful creature the Duke of Suffolk — who are you pray t — a friend of suffolk’s? -- -- 1 beg you to retire — your appearance
affiiists me.” ’
He assured her he was a stranger to the: Duke — and one interested in her recovery,,. which he hoped she would permit him t facilitate.
“I believe, ” cried she, “that you are
BO friend of suffolk’s -- you look humane
-- -- draw near then, and let me tell. yojui
There is a person who torments me
■ 1 5> ' '
/
178
to death — once he made me faint at ranelagh— — I recovered, I Saw at my feet a
man that resembled -- well, no matter! —
he. Sir, was gentle and kind — aye, he loved the poor Julia, till the cruel creature I told you of murdered him — - and now I shall never See him more !”
do6tor W. strove to console her she
interrupted him.
“He stabbed him. Sir 1 threw myself
between them — his Sword went through
o
my heart, and pierced my beloved Henryks — Ah, look there! -- -- -- do you not behold
the gaping wounds? — — I hear his shriek — again I hear him shriek! — not that he is rnurdered — but that his Julia is now left defenceless !’*
She sunk upon her pillow, with clasped hands — the person to whom she Spoke was much affected. In a few Seconds she started up again.
“An angel now at my elbow bids me claim your promise — dear Sir, you Seem; very good — be the friend of my Henry! — Snatch the weapon yet reeking with his blood, and plant it in my breast — dispatch
1 pray you — I want to be with my Lord — •
Suffolk
- I ».
 ,
Suffolk only tortured me — Heavem mush reward you for So benevolent an adliom youi will Save me from a dreadful marriage — you will be the means of uniting me in ai better world to him whom my Soul loves.’* — “I hope to be the means of uniting yoit here, dear Lady, to your Henry — Do no terrify yourself with these horrible imaginations — He, whom you lament as dead,, lives to bless you — Dear Lady Julia,, make him not Suffer, for a real calamity, thole pangs that rend your bosom for a fancied! affliction — Think, if you d ie„ what mush be the fate of your Henry ?”
“And do you Say, Sir,, that he lives ^ 1 ah, now I discover the artisice -- He iivesit ■ — Impossible! Did 1 not See him.expire? -- Dear osmond!. I will not be deceived — nay,, do not doubt my tenderness I — They sh^i shall never persuade me to marry Suffolk, You, my dear Lord,, first taught my heart to love — you are the only one whom it shall
ever love. -- The mafk.of humanity you
have asslimed, Sir, is Seen through — yoit are leagued against me — begone and trou ble.; me no more 1”
I 6 Sfe ■
* -* •
w *■
^
id
She turned from him, and he, unwilling to agitate her further, retired from the bed. Doctor W. pronounces her in a most alarming Situation, and fears that no medicine can reach her disease — The continual terror she is in — the immense exertion of her
Spirits -- and the rhapsodies of madness
she utters, must exhaust her greatly. The violence of her fever is not to be imagined.
miss Edgeumb taps at my door -- -- -- Dr,.
W. declares that bleeding her must no longer be deferred — all day he has been anxious to have the operation performed,, it could not be effected from the rest lessness of her positions — I am apprehen siye they will find it imposhble — My pre fcstce is desired..
4
^ ^ ^ ^
^ ^
4
'Eight o'cloth...
I am just returned from julia’s apartment — Mr. A. was preparing the apparatus for bleeding when I entered. Lady Pen berton was inducing her to Submit to the
necessity
»
t
*,
*
  i
necessity of it; she understood her not. Caroline wa i try ins; to make her sensible how requisite the operation vas. Pemberton stood looking on with folded arms— — mixture ot fear and grief Sat on his countenance — His wife and Almeria were in tears at the bottom of the room. Doctor W.
f
was imparting his apprehension of his par tient, I believe, to Lady Caroline Denley; for she wept exceedingly at what he laid f and Emily Edgcumb was exerting her, powers to console Mournies, whole Sobs at length obliged her to quit the apartment. — Good God, what a melancholy assemblage
* j
of people did it contain! -- -- Doctor W,.
and Mr., A., approached the bedside. ■'
“Come, my dear Julia !” cried Lady Pemberton, “I will remove your sseeve *' — and she held her arm,, which Mr. A. took. Julia'struggled to disengage it.
“For mercy’s sake, Madam, ” Said she, addressing her mother, — “for the lake of that God, who disrlaims all violence, do not oblige me to this horrible marriage. — You cannot wish. Sir, ” turning to Mr. A.
to join two people who must be miserable. — Oh, osmorid! — my dear osmond! — why did 1 not hearken to what you advised? —
I. 1 aib
%
i
MAS QXJ eradesj cri
am lost — for See! Lord Pemberton — the
tyrannic disposer of my fate — comes to pronounce curses on my head — my mother follows his example, if I dare to refuse Suffolk — Suffolk who has already been the destroyer of my peace. — God of compashon! — will you look on, and See your creature forced to become a perjurer! — heartbreaking torture — Behold where osmond stands! — his eyes reproach me for my falsehood — he turns from me — sty not, I beseech you — the vows I made you are impressed with indelible characters on my soul — never will I Swerve from them — doubt not my firmness— — me, thou most inhuman of men! — Now, suffolk! now I defpise you 1’*^ She wrenched her hand from Mr. A. — You can easily imagine the feelings of those around her. “It is in vain, ” Said Lady Pemberton, “to urge it further! — My child must die — and under a belief that her nearest connexions are barbarians.” Her Sorrow was insupportable — Pemberton Screened himself from julia’s sight — I went to the bed, and. Seating myself behind her pillow, raised her in my arms, Julia, ” cried
“my dearest sister do you not know
me V ‘‘ By that Soothing appellation, ” she
replied
0

replied, “I am Sure I do, — you are Lord
Mortimer.”
“Yes, my much loved girl — your brother — your friend, and our osmond*s -- Yoii are not well, and 1 come to beg of you tolet that gentleman, Mr. A. draw a little
blood from your arm -- The operation is
not painful -- You will oblige me, dear
Julia -- -- Was osmond here, he would
request it; and. Surely, you could not re fuse him! Ressedl how much his life depends upon your Safety.” She Smiled, and shook her bead. “Ah, dear delusion! — But do what you please.” I kissed her cheek : “Sweet girl! what an obligation you confer on me!” Mr. A. again took her hand.
“Surely, my Lord, ” Said she with eagerness“ “will not unite me to the Dukes'
'— — remember your honour is concerned as well as mine, that he should not.” I quieted her fears — He bled her till she fainted— — lay five minutes without the least motion or respiration. By Doctor w.’s desire, a cordial was poured through her lips, which instantly revived her; and, when
Hest
1^4 M ASQUE RADES; or,
I left hti, she Seemed a little more composbdv Adieu, - dear Montague. 1 am.
Your most devoted friend,
Mortimer.
N
^0 Lord Mortimer (enclosed),
i
r
Sittingbourne.
WE have travelled as expeditioufiy as
possible to this place,, which we reached an hour ago. The portrait that you, my good Lord, gave our distressed osmond, was a comfort to him unspeak able. He would hold it in his hand — six his eyes upon it — many obtrusive tears would roll down his pale cheeks. He would press it to his lips; then lodge it for a few minutes in his bosom— — it would be recalled, and the same pleasing melancholy Scene pass over again. Thus was. he Supported,, till we drew near our
prefenc
\
  185
prcsent quarters, when, I believe, the idea of leaving Julia So far behind occurred, and tortured his Soul. There is no describing to what a height his agonies arose during. the last ten miles that we travelled. When we stopped for a relay, I proposed to him to quit the carriage, and Seek repose for a couple of hours. Frederick Seconded me. He was glad of any pretence to protract his stay in England, and consented. We accompanied him to an apartment for the purpose; and, whilst Souville was giving him Some attendance, he expressed a Sear that this delay might be of bad consequence to his Lord. osmond rebuked him for his timidity, and ascribed the poor devil’s impatience wholly to selfishness.
“A desire, ” cried he, “of visiting the dirty city where you first breathed, renders you unmindful of every consideration else, and that what you think elysium is to others
heu” ' -- -- Souville begged the marquis’s
pardon for having offended him; and declared he preferred being with him, even in a prison, to living with all poshble affluence in the capital his Lordship thought him So greatly attached to, Severed from his
Service.
/
i86
r
Service. osmond was too much engaged with his own melancholy ideas to listen to what he Said; and Several times did a pro posal to return hover on his lips — Once he exclaimed,
“It is not credible that my father should be void of tenderness — Undoubtedly, were he to See iiie, he would compas sionate the anguish I endure.”
Frederick entreated him not to tantalise himself with Such a notion. “You know, my dear osmond, ” Said he “better than any man, the temper of the Duke. Rested; only a minute, and you must be certain, that you have no ground for one stattering hope respeding him at present. His resentment is now strong against you. Were you to appear, it would break through all bounds. Wait then with patience till it Spends itself — till the ties of Nature operate in your behalf. A few weeks — but a few weeks! — and all will be well.”
Ofmorid clasped his hands, and, like one in despair, fell on the bed. Souville drew the curtains round him, placed himself within hearing of his Lord — and we left
the
 87
the room, hoping, that; when he found it quiet, steep might steal on his weary eyelids. I trust he will be enabled by it to proceed on his rout presently.
We are anxious to know the situation of poor Julia, yet cannot expert it on this side of the water. Be So good as to write to me, and direct at the common place — • Monsieur dessein’s at Calais, where we will remain till 1 get a letter from you. — sup pofe your Lordship was to prevail on Julia to enclose a few lines to Ofmond? She ought to know the consolation it would afford him— — - am afraid Lady Mortimer has Suffered from the late disagreeable Scenes she was in — ill calculated, indeed, for one in her condition 1
I will not Speak of the pemberton’s further than to say, that they have hearts of adamant — As for Suffolk, if no one wishes more for his recovery than I do — he has not a friend upon earth.
Ah, Mortimer! had I been osmond, I would have taken glorious revenge on that devil incarnate Charlotte Pelham — I would have gratified her inclination certainly! — ■ She might have accompanied me as far as
Dover 5
i88 MAS Q, U ER AD E S; or,
Dover; but there she should receive my cmgey and be left to make the best of her way up to i.ondon, or wherever she pleased, whilst I pursued my voyage with the ex *ulting idea of having prevented her admission in future to the circles of women of char|<fler.
I must Send a short letter to my generous Emily, and that to thank her for the friendly offices she permits me to administer to the unsortuhate osmond.
Frederick joins me in haifemains to Lady Mortimer. I am, my Lord, with much warmth, your lordship’s
%
Most faithful
V
And affectionate
I
A
James Westbrook.
V
'ari
;
t2
« *
  189
I
/
^0 "Lord Mortimer.
St. yamefs square, Thursday Afternoon,
YOU, my Lord, who are acquainted.
with my attachment to the most excellent of men, can readily judge of the distress 1 experienced on reading your lordship’s packet. Had I known where to have found Ofmond, I should, my Lord, on the receipt of your first letter, have flown to him, and offered all the assistance in my power to Support him under the affliction with which he is oppressed — But 1 am Satisfied in the reflection of his having two companions, who, possessing hearts at ease, can better Supply comfort to his Sorrows, than the unfortunate man that now addresses your Lordship.
I went this morning to grosvenor square. I am at a loss to Say, whether the Duke of Westmoreland was a stranger to the melancholy proceedings that happened last Wednesday, (for he arrived late
last
I
I
m
s90 MAS (LU E R A.D. E S; o,
last night from Peterborough,) or whether, being informed of the matter, he delighted in the notion of having got rid of a young man whom he never loved; but certain it is, he wore, on my entrance, an uncommonly cheerful aspect,, his eyes displayed a vivacity that is generally the result of having heard agreeable tidings. As Soon as I could obtain an opportunity by his Silence, I began the business your Lordship commissioned me to treat on. I firjst imparted to him the passion that his Son felt for Lady Julia Herbert, and described it with all the pathetic I was master of — His face grew red — hisdip quivered — • anger disturbed the whole economy of his frame. — I next mentioned the duel; and related, in your own words, my Lord, what passed between Suffolk and osmond on the occasion. When I ended, he paused for a minute or two; then exclaimed, “Give me leave. Sir, to tell you, that I should not be Sorry, if your obstinate friend had paid with his life the forfeiture of his obedience.”
“Good God, my Lord, is it poshble I His destiny would indeed have been hard,
if
%
  191
if the insolence of his antagonist had gone unpunished 1- — Heaven was too just, and chastised the man who deserved it. No one can pity Suffolk, that hears the story. He was meanly jealous of Lord osmond’s
Superior virtues -- his Superior qualities.
He knew the impression they must make on Lady julia’s heart — he Sought the life of his rival — and, forgetting the consequence— — innate worth of the person, who was to be his adversary, dared to let fall threats which the Marquis could not away with — He drew, burr, wishing no harm to Suffolk, stood merely on his defence. The duke’s want of shill — his violence — or Some cause that originated in himself, Solely robbed him of life — — not
Lord Ofmond — And yet” -- -- -- - —
“Say no more. Sir, I beg. It would be very extraordinary, if you did not represent the matter in the light most favourable to your friend. But, 1 am thoroughly acquainted with the turbulence of his dilpo fition — with his hotheaded rashness. He had no right to endeavour to alienate the affections of the girl whom Suffolk meant to make his wife. The quarrel, I am
Satisfied,
192 MAS Q, tl E R A D E S j or.
Satisfied, was of his Seeking. Would to God he had fallen, and never plagued me further!” — Merciful Heaven, how cruel! So amiable a youth to be thus caluminated!
• He who declined, as far as honour would permit him, the combat, to be called the
aggressor! -- -- to be wished dead by the
man who gave him existence! -- -- -- -- Unguardedly
you dropped the expreshon, my Lord — prithee recall it, and I will for ever blot it from my memory !’*
“Retain it there. Sir, if you please, till you impart it to Lord osmond; and let this message be its companion, that, as Soon as he chuses, he is at liberty to Set out for America, for France, Holland, the East-indies — in short, what place he thinks best. Assure him that I shall vyrite no more Submissive notes; Send my Servants no more to sit up at his house, till he returns from the habitation ot witchcraft which he frequents, where he momently curses my tedious lingering in a world that wants me not — they shall no more, I say, Sir, Spend the night at s hotef looking with impatience for the young herds vtturuy to Supplicate in my name his forgiveness — 1 will never again bc’hold him !”
“Let
  193
'“Let me entreat your Grace to think a little besore So harsh a Sentence is pronounced to him ^ if it does appear in
your eyes that Lord Ofmqnd is to blame, attribute his fault to the levity natural to a young man, and pardon it.”
“No, Sir, I Will never pardon him. He knew how greatly I disapproved of an alliance with the Herbert family — I cautioned him against the Subtle poison that lurked beneath the beauty of those artful girls — I bid him to beware of the Snares they would lay to catch his amorous heart — In open rebellion to my will, he attached himself more than ever to them. 1 informed him of the engagement I was under to Davenport, that a marriage should take place between him and i.ady Henrietta — I Solicited him to gratify my wishes — He absolutely refused to do So; and Spurned at the provision my tender care had made for him. He left me in wrath, vowing never to enter my doors again. That threat Subdued my pride, and I was all the father — 1 threw aside my resentment, and pleaded for a reconciliation. He then ssew to Lady pemberton’s — paid his addresses
yoliiii. K to
194 M A. S Q, U E R A D E S; ' o r,
ito the; girl he was thoroughly convinced I liked not — sought a duel on her account — wounded dangeroussy a person of consequence to the kingdom, who is no doubt by this time dead — and has the presumption ■to expect, that I will hush the affair, supplicate the hand of his beggarly mistress for him, give them up my estates, retire to Some obscure corner of the globe, and there Spin out the remainder of my days on
roots, or bread and water -- fit food for So
despicable an object!! -- -- Lord of
fnond is mistaken in me — I cannot be reproached by mankind for abandoning him to the Severest turns of fortune, after the recent instance he has given of his libertinism.. friends must certainly applaud me, for avoiding any measure that would continue in my country So dangerous a member to Sot iety.”
“Ast, my Lord! I now see, that, but for a fear of the censures of the world, he would have been abandoned long ago by your Grace.”
He looked confused, and was about to ipcak, but faltered -- -- -- --
, Depend upon it, my Lord, that the
'unhappy
 ^5
unhappy rencontre will not clear you of the imputation of having acted with brutal inhumanity towards your Son, when this matter is talked over, even by the enemy of Lord Ofmond — if Such a one exists — His conduct cannot be condemned' — the unnatural father must be execrated — of mond’s worth will be Set in contrast — how unfavourable the comparison to you, my
Lord! -- -- Alto be looked contemptibly
on by the world, requires more humility to Support, than, I am persuaded, either your Grace or I could attain on Such an occasion !”
“You are in an error as to my.sentiments, Sir — nor is it worth my while to explain them to you. — — tiad your friend consented to marry Lady Henrietta mai'ch inont — had he shown a willingness to oblige
O tn
me in that affair — he might have fourid
that no father could have regarded a Son more tenderly.’*
“So, my Lord, if he had rendered himsclf the most wretched of mortals, you would have struggled with your nature, and tried to have esteemed him- -- --
I
would have been adequately recompensed,
K 2 no
, 7
196 M A S 0, 11 E R A D E S j or,
no doubt! -- -- -- Butin the name of Heaven,
how could your Grace ever have thought of conneding So elegant a fellow with So miserable a creature ^ — I declare to you, my Lord, I should despise my valet, were he even to entertain an idea of polses' sing her money, at the woeful expense of also possessing her person. Was Lady Henrietta to offer him her hand, if he did not refuse it, I should think him bestial.”
I suppose, Sir, you have often sold my Son the Same !”
Not I, my Lord! — This, indeed, I have told him, thd^t I held it impojjible for yofir Grace to intend ferioujly so prepojierous a union : andsit must be confessed, that no one in their Senses could have a notion of making the charming, accomplished of mond, husband to a being Scarcely human.
, — But we have wandered far from the piirpofe. For god’s Sake, my Lord Duke, know the value of your Son I Consider the blessing you own in him. Put it not in the power of futurity to compel you to. curse your present barbarity. No longer be inflexible, I conjure you; but ad as a parent ought, and promote his happshess!”
Ah,
N
  197
Ah, Sir Charles, your device is a bad one, I am not to learn that Lord osmond has Sent you on this errand. You have promised to be his panegyrist — to bestow praises on a worthless Subject— — tailing, I am by predictions to be terrified into compliance.”
“1 Swear to you, my Lord, I have neither Seen, nor received a line from the Marquis Since this unlucky circumstance happened, on which you build your anger.
1 am absolutely ignorant where he is; but be it where it will, that Spot contains the most unhappy mortal that exists 1” •
“He deserves to be So; and if the dis pleasure of a parent can add to his misery, pray hasten to inform him, that he has,, mine in its fullest extent; that I will not interfere in his behalf, though I See him led to execution; that from hence I will not Supply him with a single farthing; and, that he may not tyre Heaven with prayers for my death, in the hope of prosiring by it, it is my firm resolve to cut him off from ever poffcshng a stiver of my fortune — in short, that 1 wish never to hear more of
K 3 hirn^
V
igb M AS Q, u ER AD E S; or,
#
him, and from this hour I will forget that I have a Son.”
“Well, my Lord, I must acknowledge that you are a singular father in truth! Believe me, you are not the person whom .Lord osmond would Solicit benefits from : though his life was at stake, he could not expect that )mu would use the least trouble to preserve it. So thoroughly Sensible is he of your paternal tenderness. But I have the comfort of knowing, what probably will asslidt your Grace, that it is not in any Sort of danger, as, from the testimony of Some respedlable men of quality, it will appear plain, that he was in no manner culpable. - — A few words more, my Lord — If your Grace chuses to with hold from him your wealth, why it rnust be So; there is not
z Syllable to be Said -- -- however, you will
please to recollect; that he has a provision in
your hands, which you” -- -- -- -- -- -- -
“What do you mean. Sir “Only this, my Lord — that we are not as ignorant, as you would have us, of Lady Anne skessey’s generosity. Your Grace must give up the estate immediately, and
prepare
WHAT YOD WILL.. 1: 9^
prepare to reimburse the arrears, or we will take Such measures as shall oblige you: to it, and in every tespedl mark you to the world for the extraordinary y’/r/? and' benevolent father that you are. — I have the honour to wish your Grace a good morning There is no describing how pale he turned at the mention of Lady Anne — he was shocked,, and looked as much confounded as men in general do, when de tedled in a mean action. — Your Lordship knows but little of Westmoreland; allow me to give you a Sketch of his character, which is So totally opposite to our friend’s, that, was not the late duchess Spoken of as a model of persedl: ion, T should suspect her. of having played the Duke: faise, and made a worthier man the father of Oistnond.
Westmoreland is outrageous in his passions;; and yet beyond conception fond of splendour and parade. To this may be aferibed the liberal education: he gave his fon — the expensive way in which he permited him to live. It was his ambition to have it said“ “a i magnisicent man is the Duke!' Not aa
•K 4 noblemam
«
200
nobleman in the world understands So well how to Spend money properly. Observe the generous manner he Supports Lord osmond in — Oh, he has the Spirit of
an Emperor! -- -- Such phrases gratified
his low vanity; and, to gain them, he even parted with a quantity of the metal he adored. Now is he rejoiced to the soul, at finding a plea to escape censure,
■ and with hold from the Marquis his darling gold. Never did one Spark of natural affection for those allied to him enter his breast — he is Selfish beyond description — yet So artful and designing, that he can pretend to feel moll Sensibly, if it Suits his purpose or interest to do so. What an example of it had our unhappy osmond in that affair he told your lord ship of, when on the verge of leaving England, rendered desperate by his father’s inhumanity! The Duke ressefred, that, when the cause of his son’s emigration was known — the horrible language he used to him made public — he would be held in the despicable light that So infamous a behaviour deserved, by every creature. He
judged
  2og
judged it most to his advantage to make up the breach; and, in effecting it, displayed a masterpiece of hypocrisy, feigning the utmost concern for what had passed, and promising an amendment of condikst that he never designed to fulfil. His unguarded expression to me this morning, plainly discovered the Spring which actuated his brutal heart. Kfear of the world’s opinion will yet befriend the Marquis, I trust. I have hopes that the Spirited way I addressed him in, just before I left him, will intimidate, and cause him to be less rigorous than he threatened towards osmond. If not, he is past feelings of every kind; and the unfortunate youth must content him sels with the little he possesses in his own right.
i shall Suffer the Duke to think quietly on what I Said for a d ]y or two. if in that time I do not heat from him, I shall desire another interview.
I am well assured that Ofmond will receive no disappointment from the duke’s determination. He has experienced So many hardships from his farouche temper,
^ K 5 that
\
i
N!
a MAS(^UERADES; or,
that this instance of his hatred cannot appear extraordinary; though it is but lately that the Marquis has ever uttered a complaint of him even to me. I have been long acquainted with Westmoreland, and am well shilled in all the movements of his heart. Circumstanced as I am, I should not remain another hour in this city, but for the hope of Serving osmond with his father, for whose Sake I endure with wonderful patience the torture of mixing, in Society that I cannot avoid here,.
It is imposhble to paint the emotions of my soul at your lordship’s account of the beautiful Lady, Julia. May Heaven restore her! In that ejaculation I include the happiness of osmond. If she dies — but, indeed, the moment, in which he hears'. it, will be his last..
And now, my dear Mortimer, permit roe to inform you, that louisa Sydney and I? can never be united. — You wils despise me when you know the cause; and yet what man ever stood more in need of pity! — My fortune is ruined by my own; folly; and I love her too ardently, to ally
hctr
I
D
• •
WHAT YOU WIE.D 20^1^
her fate to a wretch’s, who has been thee author, cf his own woes. — Spare me further * on the subject— — cannot bear it > L must beg that the packet I notv retum« you, which contains the dreadful recital,., may remain in your custody a while, when you think Lord osmond enouglu composed to read it,, then dispatch it to him wherever he is. He has at this time no occasion for my presence: the amiable: Westbrook, and Frederick will not leave: him till his mind has acquired a Sufficient: Serenity. Terhaps, he. might accompany, them to England — at best,, my griefs can but adduo his — and I would Spare him the. daily sight o£an object, who from hencec must be a .Spedacle ofimisery..
Before. 1 leave London, L will write again to acquaint your Lordship,, whether the Duke forgives his Son, and .consents to > his addressing Lady Julia, or nor. Both,, or neither,. is my, condition: i wait with, the most eager impatience for the letter you. were So obliging as to promise me. this clay.. I trust, in Heaven that it will give me ea Letter account off thdovely Julia.. God; Scrbdd .you should have any cause to.sufferr
E. ^ ' ^ 1
%
ao4 M AS (LUERADE's; or,
in regard of Lady mortimer’s anxiety about her friends! — I am, my Lord, with the highest esteem,
\
Your loidship’s
Most devoted Servant,
\
Charles Montague, t’o Sir Charles Montague,
f
tkindfor^ Friday.
Your letter, my dear Sir Charles, at
once Surprised and distressed me. — What new Scene of horrid wonder are we yet to experience! — I can Scarce give credit to your assertion -- ^ Louisa Sydney and I can never be united !” — Astonishing indeed!
You are to blame, my good friend, in yielding yourself a voluntary prey to de ipair, when it might So easily be in the power of another to render you still happy.
1 would
« •
.   205
I would not for the universe wound your delicacy; but give me leave to Say, that I have never valued the fortune I posscss, only as it enabled me to be a minister of peace to worthy bosoms. Methinks, were I reduced by any calamitous stroke, or straightened in my circumstances, I should feel a sort of Satisfaction in the thought of affording a friend, whose attachment I could not doubt, the felicity of assisting me — Let me beg the favour of you to confer Such an obligation on me. A long minority enabled my guardians to hoard up a quantity of treasure, which I have had no occasion to encroach upon, and which is at present uselcfs to me. Any part, or the whole of it, is at your Service for what length of time you please. Your two estates are fine ones; and, in the course of Some years, might, without your feeling the least inconveniency, re imburse a vciy large moiety — but that, 1 give you my honour, I should never consider, if it was not with an idea of its making you less reludlant to employ me in the manner I wish. She pleasure of extricating a friend shall be my interest for the loan of
the
^ a
/
2o6: M: A S QUE R A D E S; orj.
/
the money.; and your note, payable many years hence,, my Security.
Do not, my dear Montague, bestow on me the mortification of thinking that you; suppose me too presuming or officious;, which Lmust do,, if you refuse to oblige me. Should that, be the cafe, I could, more easily forgive your pride, was yowe happiness alone at stake — But when you reflect on the dagger this terrible infraction must strike to the breast of, louisa Sydney, youi will be convinced that honour leaves you without an option.. Dear Sir Charles,, afford me the luxury of, making one amiable couple happy,. I shall be much, hurt, if you Suffen any other to anticipate me in the pleasure of doing you a Service.. An answer. I shall impatiently wait for : • however, as I, cannot doubt your regard, I will send, by the fellow vvho carries this,
orders to Mr. -- -- -- -- -- -- to have my stock.
in readiness against I demand it.
Lady Julia is still in danger, though Dr.. W. has more hopes of her than he had,. About two hours ago she was sensible, andi entreated her mother to pardon the Saults she. had committed. “Yet” added she,.
WHA’T YOU WILL. 2^
^ if to love Lord gsmond is one, I cannot: renounce it— — is amiable — tenderly attached to me— — could not command my heart — it owned him for its lord — and can; never know another — But, if he is hateful; to you. Madam, I will not marry him —
Let me depend on your urging me. no further to become suffolk’s !”
She got into a violent stood of: tears, which were the first she had shed since three o’clock on wednesday niqrning. Some time after she complained of. her. head, and Suddenly, fell asteep — That refreshment of Nature has been a stranger to her during her illness, sher fever not having permitted its approach for one single minute. do<5tor W. was greatly delighted his assiduity has been; unwearied.. pemberton’s joy wasyisible. Lady pemberton’s tears again stowed; -, but from a happy, cause. When Julia awoke,, her; delirium returned; yet, upon the whole, she stems = more compostd; — Lady. Pemberton and my wife are entirely reconciled..
Would to God I knew in what situation; poor Ofmond is! westbrook’s letter makes me very uneasy about him. Sometimes

io MAS Q.U eradesj orj
times I wish that he had returned to lon i don — nothing less than an honourable acquittal can be the consequence of his trial • — Yet 1 think his absestce from a kingdom where he has undergone So much, the best measure of restoring him to tranquillity; especially as he would not be allowed to See Julia, did he remain in it. I am convinced that she Will not marry him without Lady pemberton’s approbation, and that can never be obtained; for, ill as her daughter was yesterday, at my proposing to send for osmond, she hinted a disgust at
the mention of bis name, and Said, it would
/ *
make little difference to her, whether Julia died or married him.
Cansit be possible for Heaven to Suffer excellence like osmond’s to be So cruelly oppressed, and gratify the inhuman wishes of a tyrannic father! — Montague, what a Savage is Westmoreland! — 1 cannot form to my imagination how he purposes to atl: after disinheriting his Son. He must not expect: to live a great while; and who is the cbieft he means should benefit bv his dissolution? — Strange perverseness!! — portrait of Such a father ought to be held
up
  209
I
Up to public view, and, by striking the beholders with horror, remedy a fault to common in many parents, that of dissiking their Sons for no other reason, but because they look on them as rivals, who are to Succeed to the fortunes they poffess, when death prevents their enjoying them further.
Suffolk has been thought worse these twelve hours past, than he has been yet. I fupposed it not in nature. Every moment is expected to be his lash He has been perfectly in his senses, but never testified the least remorse for the untirnely fate he has brought on himifelf. He ashed to See Lady Julia, and, on being told her life was despaired of, exclaimed, with more strength than I imagined him capable of,
“Ah, it is osmond’s absence has occasioned it! — By Heaven I am Satisfied! — she will not Survive me — what a disappointment to his triumph I — My ash^s shall rest in peace — I feared they would be disturbed by his attaining a felicity I should have enjoyed but fjr his cursed hand !”
Let me own to you, that I commit a violence on my inclinations, when I enter
his
I
f
ztq
his apartment; but the laws of hospitality require that attention often from me, and I dare not infringe upon them. Jack Ainssey never quits him., pemberton’s time is divided between his sister and the .Duke.,
Lady Caroline i>enley is obliged to leave us tomorrow: she just now received a letter, which earnestly demands her presence in Kent,. She very kindly proposed that Emily should remain with us.
Farewell!. and believe me, dear Sic
Charles,,
/
Tour sistcere friend;.
And most obedient Servant
V
f
Mortimer.
ft
#
  Ut
%
To Lord Mortimer,
Si. yames*s~square, Saturday Twelve d*cloe}, ^
OH, that it were possible, my excellent Lord Mortimer, to convey to
you the true dictates of my heart! -- -- to
show you how Sensible it is of your kind ness, and how vast a fund of gratitude it contains! — Be assured there is no person to whom I would owe a favour like the one you offer. So Soon as your Lordship — i Think me not proud — Ah, my Lord 1 to your generous bosom I will confide a. Secret more painful to me than words can exprefs — — But, dear Mortimer, I cannot attempt to trace characters that unstring every nerve — that deprive me of reason— — cause me to feest with double poignancy; the curse of being undeceived! — ^. Break the Seal of osmond’s packer, my Lord, and there learn that money ha? no; part in the Sad story — .Confine it in your breast, and help, me to exculpate the infatuated Louila,, by casting the whole
blame
V
ai MASSLUER ADES; OR,
i. ' ■. 'i ■ i.. ■ '
blame of the affair on him, who in all situations must be your lordship’s
much attached, and for ever obliged,
ft
Charles Montague.
I
P. S. I am just going to the Duke of Westniorlanei’^.
i - • 5. i; •;
/
m
V ‘
j
V
I
To Lord Mortimer,"
- *•
••
My Lord, V St, yamefs Square,
I Will not give youv Lordship particulars of the conversation that passed between Westmoreland and me — to do So would soil my paper with invedlives and whirlwind pashons. He tells me that Lord osmond
shall have the fortune his aunt left him —
• 1 '
but not a stiver of his own money. The Duke means to ntarry, andsindulges a pro spedt of having a Second Son, who may prove more worthy than his first.
I shall leave London in two hours — you alone know where 1 intend to direct my
course.
/
%
WHAT Y OU WILL. 2 s3
course. -- -- 1 once more beg of your Lordship
to forward my packet to osmond when you think proper.
I wish I could carry with me an assurance that the divine Julia is out of danger! — But I hope much from her youth, and the goodness of her constitution. When she is able to bear the fubjed, tell her not to forget her vows to her absent Henry — that r know his ardent attachment tosher, to be incapable of change; and that he is the : only man on earth who deserv'’es her. — Yet, ‘ perhaps, it would be best to Say nothing. to her from Montague. If she is ignorant of the real situation of her friend’s heart, * she will detest the thought of me. — Present my best, my affectionate respedts to Lady Mortimer; and think me ever, with the the highest regard, my Lord,
Your lordship’s
Most devoted, and obedient Servant,
Charlbs Montague.
. • >
\
^14
/ • -
i To Lady Caroline denlevi
Windsor Tuesday Morning.
AS you desired. Madam, I take up the
pen to acquaint your Ladyship that Lady Julia gives us all great hopes of her recovery. She was this morning three hours without the least degree of fever, and of course perfectly Sensible. But never did I See So many tears fall, as there did in that time from her eyes. She uttered not the name of osmond; burr, calling me to her, begged I would write to Lady louisa Sydney, and inform her of the occurrences of the past week — she paused— — “Emily, ” cried she, “you had best defer it for a few days longer: we will not disturb her wedding with the Sound of wretchedness. louisa thinks me happy; let her remain in that notion as long as pof
Xible. -- Emily, you shall not write for a
while 1”
Lady Pemberton begged to know whom Jshe would have 'me write to?
“To
w
y ^»
/
  21$
“To louisa Sydney — Montague, now I should Say: to her only. Madam, I do assure you.’’
She wept most piteousiy, and Lady Pemberton Seemed concerned that she had ashed the question. I cannot bear to See her grief; yet Doflor W. says it must be encouraged. Lord Pemberton ashed, during the interval that she had, if she should be Sorry to hear the Duke of Suffolk was likely to recover?
“Ah, my God, ” she exclaimed, “what an interrogation! — No, my Lord, I should rejoice at it. You little imagine the many reasons I have to wish that he may live; but never, if I can help it, will I See him more !”
Could your Ladyship believe, that, notwithstanding the situation she is in, he appeared dispieased with her answer? He did indeed; and turned from her with a peevish air. However, he commanded hirstself So far, as to make no reply; and left the a partment.
You observed, my dear aunt, how beautifully Lady Julia looked during the height of her delirium. Had you beheld her this
morning.
/
2i6 MAS(LUERADES; or,
morning, you would have repeated the remark. The paleness of her cheeks, the languor of her eyes. Softened yet more by the tears she shed, gave me an idea of delicate loveliness that I never had before. Ah, what an angel in person and mind is destined to unhappiness! About noon she became again very ill, and has continued So ever since; but, as the fever intermits, her physician thinks he shall very shortly entirely banish it. Suffolk will live to torment her. r almost regret it. This day the people who attend him, found a Surprising change for the better in his situation. By the countenances of Lady Pemberton and her Son, I am persuaded they still mean to give my Sweet friend to him. A letter is just brought from the postoffice for Lady Julia, which Lady Pemberton has opened ~ — she calls me — —
* * '■'•* * * * * *
*
ife 316 # 316 # 3j6 #
At my request, her Ladyship has allowed me to transcribe the letter. It will convince you, my dear aunt, that evils accumulate,
and
'.•
V
4
  217
and fall without restraint on the head of the inestimable Julia.'
i
To Lady Julia Herbert.
• /
•C
r
Dear Madam,
AS I am no stranger to your ladyships
friendship for Lady louisa Sydney, I take the liberty of entreating you to come down directly to sommervillc house, as she is very dangeroussy ill. I fear Some dreadful account from Sir Charles Montague has reached her, as Sir George sommer ville, lam informed, received a letter from him to give reasons why he must drop his addresses. Lady Sommerville is my author f this intelligence. I dread the conse ^yol. III L <q[uences
I
0
N,
2i8 MA S.Q.UER ad ES; or,
iquences to our poor louisa! — Hasten, dear Lady Julia, to your friend, and pour the balm of comfort on her affli<stcd Soul I No one but you can do it.
Sir George is also much indispofed, and confined to his bed. Good Heaven, what a melancholy dwelling is this become! I stopped here with my Lord in our way from London, and intended to have proceeded home tomorrow;; until I hear from you, I shall not stir.
With every good wish for Lady Pemberton, Lady Mortimer, and all under her roof, I am, dear Madam,
Your ladyship’s
Affectionate and obedient Servant,
M. Arne.
^^mmervuk houfiy ■ '
Monday Night
/

< i -- -
'r
 ; aif
Lady Pemberton knows not how to adt. She is fearful of communicating this information to Lady Julia in her next interval. If she does, I think it will effectually cure her of all distress!! is now writing to acquaint Lady Arne of her daughter’s illness— — my dear Madam! I am,
»
\
Your ladyship’s
#
Most dutifully affectionate
9
Amelia Edgcumb*
.i
t.
/
L 4 Tn
V
/

M A SCL'UE RADES; or ffo Lady Caroline Den let.
Windsor' '
I Have the happiness to tell your Ladyship that Lady Julia is able to quit her bed, thoutih So V eak and emaciated as to be obliged still to confine herself to her apartment. She has entirely lost her fever, and Doctor Vv^. declares that his attendance is no longer necessary. Would to God I could inform you, that the painful guest which she harbours in her breast. Seems also about to depart 1 but, alas! her ashidlion is yet excessive — the Source from whence her eves stow is inexhaustible, and the torrents of tears she now drops, fall in lieu of those that refused to come when their nid was So much wished for. I know not in what manner she can demonstrate an additional Sorrow; for, ah! my Lady, additional Sorrow yet awaits her. Her mother just now received an answer to her letter Lorn Lady Arne: it wa to acquaint her, that Sir George Sommerville died last
T hursday
WHAT Y O U W IL L mw. Thursday night. The unfortunate Louistii
was too ill to be informed of a catastrophe sh shocking when Lady Arne wrote. Good God, what will be the end of all this calamity! But the omnipotent Being judges; best how to dispose of the creatures his hand has formed, and will Surely make the pre
Seen miseries, tend to the benefit of the most;
/
persedl of his works, though it might not be given us to discern in what manner. If Sir Charles Montague has (like the generality of his Sex, when they have no longer difficulties to combat with) grown*weary of: the affections of an amiable, beautiful ob jedfc, and by his perfidy brought her to the state she is in — is, by his ingratitude to her,, he has shortened the existence of a worthy,, venerable person— — Heaven, how will his account stand at the last day I The man who in a heat of paffion who ima moment of intoxication -- takes the life of another from whom perhaps he has received injuries,. is condemned to death; but we have no law which punishes, as he deserves, the wretch that robs an innocent woman of peace, and. occastons her to execrate each, moment that she endures a life more tori

L 3, ■ men ting.
, 22 MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
menting than the most cruel death that even a Nero could devise. It would have been kinder of him to have presented a poniard to Sir george’s bosom — to have administered a dose of poison to him — than to have killed him with grief! The crime is just the Same in the eye of heaven, though made of no consequence by mankind, else we should not find So many instances happen of its commission amongst our acquaintances. It is impossible to name three persons So amiable, Sensible, and charming, as Lady Julia, Lady louisa, and Lord osmond — it is as much imposhble to name three persons So miserable as they are! Heaven grant them comfort, and me to See them yet as blessed as I wish them!
It is reported that Sir Charles Montague, in one night, lost at hazard more than his whole fortune was capable of paying. Mr.
/ Ainstey, who is acquainted with every body’s affairs, with all that is done or Said — who is ever impatient to be the first to tell any remarkable piece of news— — little while ago, gave me this information; but, on my questioning the matter pretty closely, I found he could not authenticate the intelligence
  22^
I
Kgence by any one circumstance 7 no; no! Sir Charles has lost no money; but he has withdrawn his affections from the lovely Louisa, and has cast therui on Some very inferior object. May she experience the torment of forfeiting a heart she has inveigled from an amiable girl whose right it is! Not that I think the purchase of Such a one at all desirable, cm" a deprivation of it in fadb to be regretted; but we cannot easily reason away the assiidlion of discovering the man on whom we have placed our ten derest affections to be unworthy of them, as our disappointment Serves only to embitter the anguish of being separated from the person at once beloved and delpised. Paradoxical as this may Sound, it is I am assured but too often the cafe; and a female thus situated is a creature truly pitiable!
The Duke of Suffolk is in a fair way of doing well. Lady julia’s relations have been lo humane as not to mention his name to her, since I wrote last. You may be certain she studiouijy avoids every subject that
respects him.
The good Mournies has received new life since her Sweet young Lady has beetle pronounced out of danger. Her attachment
L 4. ig:
- • A
424 MAS (LU E R A D E S j o r,
is well accounted for. She lived in the family before my amiable friend was born: when that event happened, she took charge of her immediately, and they have never been Separated a week together since. Mournies is. the daughter of a reputable Bourgeois who resided in Dijon. By a Series of misfortunes, himself, his wife, and four girls, were reduced to extreme poverty. The late Lord Pemberton and his Lady, in making a tour of the middle provinces of France, remained at Dijon a few days; Some lucky accident brought them acquainted with the miserable group, whom they bountifully relieved, and, at the mother’s request. Lady Pemberton took her eldest daughter, then about nineteen, into her Service. Her Ladyship found her tolerably accomplished for one of her station, of excellent principles, and well calculated, in Spite offer youth, to attend on growing persons. She proved herself more worthy every day of Lady pemberton’s kindness, and demonstrated the highest Sentiments of gratitude. On the Ladies quitting the convent where they were educated, Mournies became the maid only of Lady Julia, who has the most tender affection for her. At
present
WHA.D YOU’ WILL. S'
present this. amiable creature is in high’ wrath with Mr. Ainssey. Unhappily foe the little animal, he chose this morning to distinguish a very favourite lapdog of Lady julia’s by Some marks of attention; the" dog, in a playful way, not uncommon,. Snatched rather rudely at his hand; Mr, ■ ainssey (who of the two owned least Sagacity) fancied: Bijou mad, and,, without hesitation, or respect to pun: ilios of'ceremony, shot him dead on the Spot. Mour nies, on hearing, the dreadful fate of her lady’s (and oscourse her own) much loved' Bijou, flew to Lady Pemberton; and, ia the Sorrow of her heart, .complained bitterly of his inhumanity. When Lady juliti t was told of if, she very calmly Said, thac mr. ainstey.afled very well, if he had causo for his suspicion, and bid Mournies not ta » regret what could not poshbly be remedied.. Your Ladyship would regard'mournies as much as I do, did you see her affiduoussyy endeavouring to divert Lady julia’s aiten -- tion from melancholy Subjects. The method she generally takes, is, to remind hei^r’ 0 the pleasantries that Lady Mortimer,,, and Tady louisa,, wero for ever pradisin^r
226 mast^uerades; OR,
on her and Clairon, when they were all in the convent at Paris.
* ^ ^ ^
Good God, my dear Madam! what a a request has Lady Julia this instant made me! It is to write Lady louisa an account of the quarrel between Lord osmond and the Duke; to describe the consequences. that ensued from it !^ — A hard talk indeed! but she shall be obeyed — Perhaps the hand of death may close the eyes of her friend before my letter can reach sommerville house. Should it arrive at an improper season, Lady Arne will not Suffer it to be given to her — there is Some comfort in that
thought. -- Again lady Julia Summons,
me -- -- -- -
« « « « « « «
She will write a few lines herself to her friend, she Says,, to prevent her entertaining causeless apprehension t for, my dear Emily, ” added she, “if you tell her I have been dangerousty ill, she will suppose me
m
t
• w > »> ^ .i.
WHAT you WILL.
still in that condition, unless she feea myr
own writing.. I will therefore Scratch a few lines, and enclosd your melancholy detail^ which I promifeyou I shall not give myfelff the torment of perusing — yet the horrid facts are lettered here, ” putting her hand! on her heart,. “sh shch indelible characters
as no time can ever obliterate, or render less poignant to my feelings! — But yoiji shall See that I dp not: Seek any means off presenting afresh to my fancy the images^ of that fatal night.. Write freely then,, my Emily : I will notread your letter.” ’
I need not mention to your Ladyship that a violent stood of grief followed these words: you know what she Suffers,, andi must suppose it..
Adieu, my dear Madam !* I will imme^ diately Set about the most painful employment that ever 1 engaged in.. With everf/
dutiful.sentiment,, 1 am your ladyship’s,
Very affectionate niece,
%
Amelia Edgcumb^.
J
«
/
MAS Q, U E R A D E S j o tj;
Lady Louisa syoney.
ONCE more do I add refs my amiable
friend. It is again given me to declare the warm feelings of a heart, which, in every state, whether of happiness or mi sery, beats respondent to the lively affection that yours is replete with for your poor Julia! — Ah, my louisa! what have I not endured since my pen was last employed in this manner! — You will compassionate my wretchedness, when you are informed of what I have gone through — You will Sympathise more deeply than I wish you to do'
'the Sad reverse of my fortune! — I have entreated; Emily Edgcumb" to give you those particulars which my weak hand dares not transcribe — she will also tell you that I, have been indisposed — but am now almost recovered. I inquired yesterday of Lady Pemberton whether you was married? she answered no; but could not ascribe the reason. I ask of you, my Louisa, why this delay? No letter from you has reach
S ' ed
WHAT YOU will.
ed me for an age,, Ah, do not keep me thus ignorant of your situation! I can but ill bear the pain of Suspense just now. Per -- haps yon are very ill 1 pity me, my God — and let me not have that ashidlion added: to my Sufferings! — Farewell, dear liouisa S I shall Soon have strength, to vvrite to you more
fully, I am,
#
Ever yours,.
herbjerti.
/
€
t
4
r
wa
«
n
to
M A S E R A, D E S j.
4
iti? Caroline denletr
Windsor Thursday Morning.
Lady Pemberton sound, a little while
ago,, my deaf Madam, that Lady Julia Seemed remarkably distressed. She attributed it to the Silence of her friend, and. Supposing that her fears concerning louisa were raised to a proper height, to prepare her for the melancholy accounts she had ta tell, informed her with all poshble caution of what Lady Arne had written. She was. inexpressibly shocked;, and, as Soon as Speech was afforded her, 'entreated her mother to let her Set out dircdtly for sommer ville house. Lady Pemberton started at. the proposal., She ashed how in her emaciated state she could think of undertaking Such a journey How she could have a desire to be present at asiiifung Scenes that. must be destrudlive to the Small stock of Spirits that So Severe an illness had left her? ** Ah, Madam, ” answered Lady Julia, “the fatigue of travelling cannot harm me. Remaining:

mainrng at a distance from my unhappy louisa,. when the sight of me would calni; her disturbed mind, must do it much more effedlually. I have never been Selfish enough to wish to avoid a Spedlacle of woe,, if my presence could be a consolation ta any poor Sufferer — shall I be now afraid of it, when louisa Sydney is the object of compassion I Oh, my mother! let me hasten to her. In administering comfort to,
, griefs, I shall learn to forget my own Dear Madam, refuse me not everything that concerns ray peace 1” “Every things. Julia!” Said; Lady Pemberton with an air of displeasure; I never refuse your wishes, but in matters that, you ought to be Sensible, would make you miserable, were I to grant them.”
And is it the case now, my Lady ?”
“It is, 1 should be mad, was I to Suffer your departure from me at Such a, time.”
““Unfortunate girl!” exclaimed Lady Julia: “1 have indeed lost your confidence, Madam I you make me feel it very Sensibly — Ah, my louisa— — will be the victim of my mother’s fears.”
She wept bitterly. Lady Mortimer asked..

^22 MA S QUE RAISES J or;
ed’why she would Seek to distress herself So unreasonably? What fears her mother, could have, excepting Such as respected her health?
“Far other fears, ’^ replied she, - ‘^ occupy my mother’s bosom! — Dear Madam, be pleased toanswer me with candour, ” addressing Lady Pemberton : “Are you not afraid that I Snail See Lord osmond — that; I shall correspond with him when from under your eye? — You are silent,, my. mother — ah, - L read your thoughts too plainly! — — You. think I have already adied with disguise, and may do So again — but be. convinced,., that I will take no step which can draw on. me your censure. Without your approba r tion, my eyes shall never behold Lord osmond. I will shun every Spot where there: is a probability of his appearing. No'letter from him shall be received by me; nor will I ever make him master of aline of my writing, unless I have your leave for it,, will bind myself by the most Solemn vows in each article, so you will but let me try to Save my louisa. — Dear Madam, if you doubt my assurances, appoint Some vigilant person, whom you. can trust, to gtiafd my, condu<st r to • watch over every
action.
I
W H A T YOU WILL. 233
ast: ion — -1 shall think it no hardship — and let that person be my companion to some merville house. Yet, Madam, I will give you an instance of my Sincerity, by declaring, even in the moment when most of all I dread your displeasure— — I most apprehend its being a barrier to the favour I Solicit, that, though I marry not Lord of mond, his image will be ever present to my thoughts. I have made him a proitiise of not uniting myself to any other, and I will keep it as inviolably as I do my faith in heaven — nay more! I shall thank any of my friends to inform him of the obligations I am confined under, and that obedience, but not inclination, constrains me to adopt Such a carriage. — IHAVE disclosed the situation of my heart to you — I have vowed to do no more than continue to love Lord OSMOND. — I see your Ladyship is angry — * the most rigid duty cannot exact a further Sacrifice than what I have made. — • And now, my dear mother, on the conditions I propose, permit me to visit my louisa ~ my heart feels Sorely oppressed?; do not add to tlj^. weight it endures by keeping me from her, I conjure you !”
Lady
234 MAS (Ltl ERADES; or.
Lady Pemberton, observing that she grew paler every instant, that her eyes as sumed a languor rather alarming, and that she breathed short. Seemed terrified.
“compose yourself, my dear girl !*’ Said she; “you exhaust your Spirits. I will consider on what you demand; and, if my reason does not absolutely oppose it, I will indulge you, **
Lady Julia clasped her hands with a, meek fervour : “But, my dear Madam, every moment is precious — pardon my presumption — when, my mother, shall I know your determination .^**
“In an hour, ” Said Lady Pemberton, ^ and left the room. We begged her to re pose a while on a Sofa.
“My dear Caroline — my kind Emily, **' cried she, I can taste no repose— — ordered Mournies to pack up immediately a few clothes. “I know not, ” Said she, “whether Some other person may not be appointed to attend on me — I fear you will be left behind.” “If I do not go with you, ” answered she in French, “I will certainly follow you; therefore, I may at the
Same time put up clothes for ray Self!”
Well,.
N
  235
“Well, make haste, my good Mournies j let us not be accessary to the delay of this journey.’* Mournies departed to execute her charge.
“And now, Caroline, ” Said the Sweet Julia, “tell me whether you know a being who has more reason for grief than I have My mother’s displeafure I have incurred V her countenance plainly reveals it — and for what? Why, for loving a man she is unhappily prejudiced against — a man whose perfection makes him the boast of human nature. I cannot help regarding him beyond every other of his Sex — indeed, was my heart capable of change in this refpect, I should be the most despicable of creatures — Yet I have obeyed the injunctions of duty; I have promised to hold no communication with him — never to marry him — « hard Sacrifice I — and still it weighs very little with Lady Pemberton : her affections are alienated from me; she is diffident of my honour. — Separated for ever from osmond— — of the pangs he Suffers, which penetrate my bosom with double woe — held unworthy of my mother’s confidence — and perhaps at this moment robbed of the friend who was dearer to me than?
life —
1
236 MAS CLUE RADES; o rv
i
life — in what shape, my Caroline, can fur r there distress approach me ?’*
Her sister wiped away the tears that fell on her cheeks— — own eyes were not dry.
Let me not imagine, ray dear Julia, ” " she replied, that your piety ssed with your happiness. It lias hitherto been your brightest charm; and the Almighty chooses to try the strength of it, by sending you afflictions. If you Sustain them with proper resignation, how pleasing in his eyes will you render yoiirself, ^ — and what an example to your Sex! I really cannot blame Lady Pemberton for objecting to your departure from, her at Such a time : she has no suspicions. injurious to your Sentiments, and only fears for your health. If, in consequence of your present removal, you should re laple into the dangerous illness from whiclt you are Scarcely recovered — if Lady Pemberton should be deprived of her daughter — she must eternally reproach herself for consenting to So improper a request.’*
“Ah, Caroline! Lady Pemberton no longer retains that warm tendcrness for her, Julia that always made me So happy. My death would be an affliction Soon foro otten!
V ^ O
— but there is no probability of its happening'

I
WHAT YOU W I L L 237
ing from my visiting louisa. Say nothing more to dissuade me from it. Hasten to my mother, and urge her to let me depart immediately.” Lady Mortimer Saw it vyas imposhble to refuse her, and went in pursuit of Lady Pemberton. What they have resolved, I know not; but they are both closetted with Lord Pemberton and his wife, I left Lady Almeria with her sister, whose pale, emaciated Sorm, and streaming eyes, affcdled me too visibly to allow of my remaining in her presence.
; H? * ae ♦ *
Eleven o’clock.
It is at length determined that Lady Julia is to leave us. The carriage is preparing to carry her away from Windsor— — heart finks at the thought. Lord Pemberton is to be her escort.
Lady Julia is all gratitude for her mother’s kindness in permitting her departure. She certainly a6ts from the impulses of her heart, not in conformity to her judgement; for she fears, as I do, that the journey will be prejudicial to her daughter, but cannot prevail on herself to put a negative on a request
£38
quest So ardently made to her. Lord pem berton^s post coach conveys them to some merville house — I See it driving round — I must bid adieu to my angel friend — Ah, how painful is the idea of parting with her I
^ ^
^
I fourid Lady Julia in her mother’s a partment on her knees, begging to be admitted to the Same place she had ever held in her affections— — a beautiful figure for the pencil of Some artist would she have made at the time! Lady Pemberton raised, and pressed her to her bosom. She assured her that there was no alteration in her Sentiments concerning her; begged her not to attribute her refusing to give her to Lord osmond, to caprice, or a change in her regard; and added, that she would, in Some future day, think the disgust she showed to the match very reasonable — and that her happiness, when the first intoxication of passion was over, would certainly be the victim of Such a union. Lady Julia listened with melancholy attention whilst her mother Spoke. When she finished, she again repeated her assurances of not
devi
V
 39
deviating in the Smallest point from the promise she had made her Ladyship. She told her, that, as it would be a great consolation to her to remain a few months with louisa, (if it pleased heaven to Spare her to her,) she should take it as a particular favour, if her Ladyship would allow her to do So. Her mother Said, That, though she must lament her absence, and be impatient for her return, yet she should be entirely mis tress of her own time, and Spend it where she chose. — Some one rapped at the door. Lady Pemberton fupposed it to be her Son, and bid the person enter. How astonished. was Lady Julia to See Mr. Ainsiey appear!
it was the first time of their meetino sincethat
-.. •, ^
dreadful night which witnessed So much confusion. She trembled, and threw herself into a chair almost fainting.
“Pardon, Madam, this intrusion, ” cried he to Lady Pemberton; but I come an humble Suppliant to Lady Julia frohi my Lord Duke.”
“Good God, Sir! — what — what can he have to alk of the woman who owes all her wretchedness to him — Tell him to forget me — that to be freed from any importunity he could make, I would drag this feeble
form
■ r
at40
form over the whole world, and be well Satisfied, could it be a means of my avoiding him.”
“How shall I bear Such an answer to the unfortunate Duke! Dear Madam, be more kind! Ressecl on his agonies in knowing that you are about to leave windsor — that be is hateful to you! — Aman who loves So desperately as he does, who professes” -^^-
“I will listen to none of his professions — tell him So.”
“He fears, your meeting with the vile osmond, when from under Lady pemberton’s Sandtion, might cause” -- -- -- - “The
vile only can call Lord osmond vile! — — — Leave my presence instantly, Mr. ain stey — Good God," is this a time! — Madam, do you authorise Mr. ainstey’s freedom V
“I do not wish Julia to see you made uneasy; but still, my dear, you should hear what he has to impart from the Duke.”
“I will say it in a few words: he begs to have the honour of Seeing Lady Julia, before she goes, for five minutes.” “No Sir; never, never with my own consent, shall I approach him! As a fellow-creature, 1 wish him well j but, if he is desirous of
obliginff
/
  241
obliging me, he will banish himself from my sight for ever. — Emily, you say the coach waits — why do I thus loiter Lord Mortimer came in : she gave him her hand, and he led her out of the apartment.
In crossing a parlour, a little Italian greyhound of Lord ofmond’s, which he was remarkably fond of, and which I imagine he forgot in his confusion to take with him, ran towards the beloved of his Lord; it appeared overjoyed to see her, and fawned upon her with extasy. She took him in her arms, and with many tears returned the caresses he gave her. Carry him with you, Julia, ” cried Lord Mortimer. “Ah, no!” she replied; “I dare not. What will Lord Pemberton Say? It may be looked on as a violation partly of the promiscs I have made, to take with me anything Lord osmond is So much attached to — it may look as if I meant to renew the intelligence we So lately held, by affording him an opportunity of feeing or writing to me, either of which he must do, to ciaim his Hdele.” “And think you, ” Said mjy Lord, “he will only on fidele’s account Seek to See or write to you ^ — unjust girl!” “Here
vol. HI. M comes
^42 M A S(^UERADES; or,
comes a Second time, my brother, the detestable friend of Suffolk — I will hold no further converse with him; let me ssy! • — — My Sweet Fidele, never more shall I behold you, or the dear object to whom you belong! — Horrible reficdtion !” She put down the dog, and went towards the coach with Speed enough to avoid Mr. Ninsse}', who no doubt came to enforce the jequest he had before with unparalleled effrontery made to her. Fidele Seemed unwilling to be again deprived of her, and leapt into the carriage afer her. As Lord Pemberton entered it, 1 lav him stroke the little animal; So 1 suppose he had no objection to its attendance on his fair companion.
I feel strangely melancholy now that I have lest Lady Julia. Ah, who can know her and not be grieved at her absence! Lady Pemberton will remain here till her Son returns, and then she goes with him, his wife, and Lady Almeria, to my lord’s Seat in Hertfordshire, Sora few weeks. They are urgent with me to accompany them thither; but I shall stay with Lady Mortimer, till your Ladyship gives us the
pleasure
  24j
pleasure of Seeing you at windsor, and then I am, you know, at your difposal.
The Duke of Suffolk, Lord Mortimer tells me, is outrageous at Lady julia’s departure. He judges that she has contrived
it merely to meet osrnond -- -- he curses
vehemently his inability to follow, and prevent their happiness. — I have often heard love called an exalted passion: : refines ignoble Sentiments, but I am Sure it can also debale good ones. I will quote the Duke as an instance. Nothing could be more amiable than he was, till he loved ardently Lady Julia — till jealousy acted on his mind like a venomous Serpent; and now, rather than see her blessed with another, he would gladly hear that she no longer lived. — I hate him in hispresent dis polition with all my heart.
Mr. ainoey (the morning post of windsor) Says he received a letter yesterday, which mentions that Lady Henrietta Marchmont and her aunt are at Bright
O
helmstone. They went down with the Duke of Westmoreland six days ago. His grace’s attention to her Ladyship appears
m2 to
/
244
to exceed the bounds of friendship; and, it is confidently Said, he means to become a Suitor for those affections his Son would not accept of. Methinks 1 should like to See in what manner the airs and graces of a lover Sit on the old Duke. Sure, had he beheld how inimitably his Ofmond adorned that character, he never could have been preposterous enough, afterwards, to figure in the Same line, however different the objects of their choice are! I do not suppose that Lady Henrietta will accept of the Luke : she is a great admirer of beauty, and never was woman more pashonately in love than she was, three months ago, with Lord Olhiond. But time will discover all!
Lady Mortimer bids me Say, that it will be very kind of your Ladyship to hasten back to windsor — that her Spirits are ssed — rand that she will stand in need of So conlblatory a friend as you are, when her mother and the rest are gone, to cheer her gloomy thoughts. She adds, also, that I only cry and Sob in concert with her; that her Lord has no inclination to comfort her,
for
  245
for that he is equally unhappy with herself at the mournful Situation of their friends — — and, more than all, she wants your Ladyship to ashst her in planning slime means or other to restore those friends to that height of happiness from whence they are fallen. That you may be able to accomplish So difficult an undertaking, is the Sincere wish
of, my dear Madam,
#
Your ladyship’s >
Most dutifully affectionate
\
Amelia Edgcumb,
4
9
t
'I
M 3 Till
0
^
V •
246 MAS(LU£RADES; or,
S
«
Lady Dowager Pemberton.
YO U made me promise, dear Madam,
to write to you very particularly rdpefting Julia — I will obey your Ladyship; and am extremely well inclined to the employment, as sseep is banished from
my eyes by the melancholy that Surrounds me.
Julia was So much Satisfied with the idea of visiting her friend, that, upon the whole, I thought her more composed than 1 had known her, since the departure of the man she is unhappily atcaciied to. This com posure lasted for the three first hours of our journey. She Spoke warmly of your ladyship^s tenderness — of the pleasure you Seemed to feel in almeria’s being So greatly esteemed and admired. She then expatiated on the felicity I enjoyed with a charming companion, like my Sophia, and next mentioned the mortimer’s. Her dear Caroline, she Said, after the much dreaded
trial
V
  247
trial she must expect is over would be more cheerful than ever“ “I return to town, my Lord, I shall find great amusement in my new relation 1” I replied, that, if we could but again see her look gay, we might boast of being as happy a family as any in the universed* She bowed; thanked me with tears; and answered, she should be a most ungrateful creature, if she did not derive happiness from knowing that those she So highly regarded possessed it.
I admired a little greyhound which reclined on her lap, and observed, that I had Seen Lord Budenall caress it. I ashed whether it was his present.? She trembled, turned red, and replied :
“It is no present, my Lord; nor have 1 a right to bring it from windsor — the dog belongs to Lord Ofmond — it jumped into the coach after me.'’ I looked graver than I now wish I did.
“This dog, I believe, is esteemed only on his lord’s account; and I must think” — y If it offends your Lordship that i
M 4 should
«
%
248
\
should keep it, you can carry it back to windsor.”
“Is it for Lord osmond’s Sake that you thus cherish it, Julia; or is it because you admire the beauty of the greyhound
“There is no necessity for my answering the question brother — you can carry him back, is you please.”
“Say you only admire the beauty of the dog — you have no other motive for being fond of the animal, and 1 will not deprive you of him.”
If you take the dog, you will certainly, my Lord, deprive me of a very great pleasure; but I shall not keep it at the expense, of an untruth -- the dog is very
pretty; yet I should Scarcely have regarded if, had it not been a favourite of Lord of mond’s, and consequently dear to me.”
“I do not, Julia, much like this avowal
— however, it is an honest one 1 would
trust you in the company of osmond, if 1 had your V ord that you would not listen to him — So high a dependence can be placed on you I am convinced. As to the animal, we are not in the age of fairies. Fidele
cannot
I
  249
cannot Speak: he has it not in his power to plead his master’s passion; he is not gifted with any of that fascinating oratory, which the Seducing osmond used when he made
his way So artfully to your heart -- -- You shall
therefore keep the dog.”
Seducing Ofmond /” she repeated; would to god, my Lord, you knew his worth” — *
“As well as you do / you would say, Julia.”... ^
“Aye, my Lord, if you will have it so'! — or as well as every unprejudiced person does.”
“Why, it is not your Sex alone that he Seduces to think well of him; but the unwary also df his own — to them he appears a model of perfection.”
“Well, my Lord! — you, who are Sb wary — who see through the disguife he assumes — pray give me to understand what are those faults for which you arraign him? Hitherto you have condemned him in general terms only. Has the Duke of Suffolk told you of Some vicious tendency that he hasor did your penetration dem
5
'** ^ V
A ^
25© M A S (UE R A D E S; 0 R,
ted him in the practice of any immorality ?”
“Ha! upon my Soul, Caroline has given you lessons; you Speak with warmth, Julia!”
“Pardon me, my Lord; I mean not to offend, but to know whether it is out of fraternal tenderness you Separate me from the only man I ever did, or ever will love; or whether it is to Satisfy the rancorous malice of the hateful Suffolk
“Have a care, Julia 1 It is rather poignant to have a friend Spoken of with Such
unreasonable bitterness” -- -- -- -
“And how much more poignant, my Lord, to hear the man in whom all my love centres loaded with aspersions he merits not? — Believe this, and tell it to
your friend -- -- Lord Ofmond Seduced not
my affections: they were fixed on him long before I imagined that I was dear to him. It is unkind of you to renew my affliction on his account, when I am about to encounter an almost insupportable share in beholding the wretched situation of my poor louisa! I make not Lord osmond
my
WHAT Y O U W I L L 25s
my topic; I do not tyre the ears of any one with the Subject. In pity, therefore, my Lord, let his name rest; let it be forgotter^ by all but her — who must cease to think ere she can cease to think of him.”
She was violently affected— — repented from my soul all that I had Said — I wished the cur at the devil for giving rise to Such a conversation. Mournies looked at me as if I was more void of Sensibility than the quadruped itself. I threw my arms round Julia; I begged her to forgive me — ever Soft and amiable, she exchanged the words with me, and accused herself of petulance. She tried to regain her Serenity but it was impossible..
When we were within sixteen miles of sommerville house,, she grew extremely alarmed. She would frequently catch me by the hand, and exclaim, “suppose, my Lord, we find her dead !” I endeavoured to quiet her fears;. but they acted So powerfully on me, as to make me almost a coward. We stopped to change horses : : I urged her to alight and take Some refreshment.. “Oh, no, ” she cried, “it wouki
M 6 b s;
s
V
y
252 M ASQUE RADES; or,
be wasting time! I stepped out, and brought her to the carriage a glass of weak negus. Io oblige me, she put it to her lips, but declared she was incapable of Swallowing. I heard her ask one of the people, if they knew anything of the family at fommerville housc? “Yes, ’*
the person answered, “the" worthy Sir George Sommerville died this day week; and I heard the day before yesterday, that his niece Lady louisa Sydney was danger ousiy ill.” “And have you received no intelligence concerning her since r” cried the terrified Julia, “No, my Lady, ” was the reply. I really trembled lest we should find Louisa no more : Such a shock would, I was well convinced, put an end to my sister at once. I went into the stable yard, and, beckoning to one of the footmen, bid him ride as fast as poshble to Sommerville House— — the worst I dreaded had happened, to meet the carriage, and Say, he had just been informed by a tenant of the late Sir george’s, of whom he had inquired for Lady Louisa, that Lady Arne, unwilling she should be in the house at the time they were about to inter her uncle’s
remains.
  253
remains, had carried her to Southampton that very morning. I took necessary precautions to make the postilions keep a stow pace; and was determined, if the fellow repeated the words I put in his mouth, to bring Julia back to the inn we had just left, where I found the people Sufficiently ignorant for my purpose of the fate of Lady louisa.
By this time night had approached — it was uncommonly dark — an inundation of
rain fell from the heavens -- the wind
whistled from every corner. We heard the tolling of distant bells — auniversal horror Seemed to overspread us. Julia, cold and trembling, threw herself into my bosom, as if for refuge. “Ah, my Louisa” ” exclaimed, “I have lost you! The very heavens compassionate, and Sympathise in, my Sorrows! — Montague, can it be that I owe Such a misfortune to you? — Dear brother, who knows but she wished to See me — to breathe her last in my arms! — She had no mother to watch over her — ■ to Soothe her Soul in its agony with maternal tenderness — no Sisters near to officiate in Such kind offices, as relieve the heart
when
y
/
254
when overcharged with grief and pain: remote from evefy dear connexion — abandoned by the man who was to have blended each affectionate title in one — left to the
V
care of an ill natured aunt, and unfeeling:
Servants, she died. -- Oh how slight must
she have thought my regard for her !’*
I blamed her for Supposing a circumstance, which I Saw no reason to apprehend had happened; and asked her, if she reckoned it as nothing for her Louisa to have Lady Anne with her? I represented what a terrible effect it might have on the poor invalid, to behold the person, who came with an intention of giving her comfort, So depressed. So much herfeif an object of affliction, by harbouring imaginary fears, as to stand more in need of conso lation than the friend whose destiny site deplored. I used every art 1 was master of to prevail on her to let us return to the inn, and remain there till tomorrow, when she would be properly composed to meet her friend. I proposed dispatching a servant immediately to sommerville house, to say the Ladies might expect us in the
morning. I could not by any means gain.
her
  255’
her consent: she begged, as a test of my fondness, that I would start no impediment to the completion of our journey as Soon as possible. There was Something So touching in her manner — her entreaty was made with Such ardour, that to have persisted in dissuading her from going on, would have been cruel.
We were within six miles of the house, when Edward (the fellow I had sent) rode close by the window. I put down the glass, and asked if he wanted anything? “Yes, my Lord, ” he answered, to tell you that I have just heard Lady Louisa Sydney is better than she was, and that there are strong hopes of her recovery.” Julia uttered Some ejaculations of gratitude to ■ Heaven — the postilions were ordered to make haste; and we compensated by the Speed with which we stew, for the time we had lost before.
As we entered the gfeat gates that en close the coach road up to the house, and which is of considerable length, we Saw a. prodigious light advancing towards us. As we each approached, we perceived a great number of men on horseback, bearing
■^5^ MAS(LUERADES; or,
ing torches in their hands, and moving ssowly in proceshon. We were not at a loss to know, that it was Sir George some merville’s body they were condudling to its last melancholy habitation. We were obliged to stop until the dismal pageant passed. I bitterly regretted their choosing to render the Scene more affecting, by per foiming the ceremony of burial in the night, on my sister’s account, whose Spirits did not stand in need of Such an additional shock as this must have given them. Thirty or forty men on horseback riding in pairs carried torches; after them followed the hearse, with twelve persons on each side, walking, with torches in their hands also: they were Succeeded by twelve mourning coaches, with two Servants behind each, holding flambeaux, and the procession closed with the like number of men as preceded the corpse, dispofed in the Same manner. You must imagine that we were detained a great while ere the whole cavalcade passed us. When we drove up to the hall door, too Servants appeared, whole mourning habits were Suitable to the faces of Sorrow they wore, Julia was unable to
Speak— — ^
YOU WILL. 257
Speak — she Seemed fainting, and I Supported her weak frame into an apartment they had thrown open for us. I placed her on a Sofa, and applied volatiles. Lady Arne ran in, and assisted Mournies and myself in recovering her. After we had accomplished it, she exclaimed, “Ah, Madam! what are my Seelings at beholding So much distress, to those of louisa, who is immediately engaged in it! — How is she. Madam? — Let me fly to my dearest” -- -- --
“Stop, Lady Julia !” Said Lady Arne, “you are not in a condition to approach your friend — have Some compalsion on yourself — on louisa !”
“Your Ladyship is very considerate and kind — I would not for the universe Surprise her : but pray prepare her to expect me Soon; I am all impatience to convince her of the part I take in her affiidlions.”
“Lady louisa, ” answered she, “is still very ill; yet she has passed the crisis of her disorder, and we have reason to trust thafi she will do well, ”
Lady Arne ordered in refreshments — — — she endeavoured to divert my sister’s attention from the purposed visit; but it
was
/
258 MAS CLUE RAD E S; or,
was in vain — no discourse could render Julia forgetful of her friend, and that the only motive of her journey was to console her. Lady Arne retired to observe whether her patient could bear an interview with Julia. In half an hour she came back, and informed us that Lady Louisa waited with the utmost anxiety to See my sister She begged me to accompany Julia and herself to louisa’s apartment, 1 presented her my hand, and we followed the eager steps of Julia.
The invalid was on a Sofa, Supported by pillows, emaciated, pale, and agitated. My sister Sunk into her arms,, which were opened ready to receive her. Ishey Spoke not a Syllable — but Such silence was sush ciently eloquent, and plainly told the con fiidiring pashons that filled the bosoms of both.
“What, dear louisa, ” cried I, unwilling to let them continue in a state So hurtful, “am I then totally disregarded by you! — not even a look of welcome after a tedious absence to an old friend !” She reached forth her hand, and permitted me to embrace her,
“Thank
« 9
  259
“Thank Heaven, my Lord, that I am
allowed to have So great a bleshng! -- 1
thank my excellent Lady Pemberton for Sparing her to me; and I thank you also, for bringing her to a poor creature, whom 1 should have pronounced, a few hours ago, but for Lady arne’s kindness, neglected by all the world.”
“From a number of accidents too tyre some now to mention, Julia heard not of your indisposition till this morning — You See, my dear louisa, with what haste we have ssowh to you — judge by that of our love, and endeavour to get well, if you value our happiness.”
“1 cannot. Lord Pemberton, express
my gratitude! -- -- Ah, my Julia! could
you think it? — Sir George has never once
visited me since” -- -- -- --
You must not Speak much, my dear, ” cried Lady Arne: “your uncle is fearful of getting the fever you have had — we all dissuade him from approaching you.”
“Very true. Madam! I am unreasonable and Selfish -- -- But, Surely, my eyes deceive
me, or you are much changed, dear Julia, since we last parted. — Your hurrying
26o mas (LU ERADES; orj
ing life has been of no advantage to your health, I Sear: you are become thin and pale.”
“Fatigue causes the alteration, louisa, ” answered my Sister: “mind not my looks
— I am very well. -- -- -- But you have not
Satisfied my Solicitude by Saying how you are
“I am free from pain just now, excepting that which admits of no remedy, — Lady Arne tells me, that in the height of my illness she wrote to beg of you to come down — she then mentioned the cruel
treatment -- -- but I am not able to Say
more— — my Julia, and Seek Some repose— — countenance Speaks the want of it. The knowledge of having you under the Same roof with me, will ensure me a quiet night.”
We left her apartment, fearful of exhausting her too much. Lady Arne and I condudled Julia to her chamber, and, taking leave of her there, returned to the drawing-room. She then informicd me, that Lady louisa, about three weeks ago, had taken a cold, which was attended by a
fever, and confined her to her bed. In
the
W H A T Y O U WILL. 261
the midst of it, she received a letter from Sir Charles Montague, that affcdied her deeply: the consequence was, her fever encreased; it attacked her nerves to the highest degree, and at last brought her into a most dangerous Situation. Yesterday, the physician (who had been called in) declared, would determine her fate — if she out lived it, she might recover.
“She is ignorant, you find, ” added her Ladyship, “of Sir george’s death. To have told her of if, or even that he was more indispofed than usual, would have destroyed her.”
I inquired for Lady Sommerville.
“Oh, my Lord, she preserves all the forms of Sorrow generally worn on these occasions; but, take my word for it, she is a Second Lady Kitty Crocodile !”
“Does she not Seem to compassionate the condition of Lady louisa V
“I will give your Lordship a Specimen how far she does it. I thought decency required that 1 should this morning attend her. She was buried in affliction, and answered the questions I ashed concerning her health only with groans, sighs, and Sobs.
W hen
t
*52
When in Some measure appeased, she demanded whether Lady louisa had left her apartment yet? — if she was at all concerned at her uncle’s death? — or testified marks of pleasure on the occasion? I expressed my astonishment at Such interrogations, as she could be no stranger to the alarming illness of louisa; and Said I thought it by no means Safe to make her acquainted with a circumstance that must at least render her wretched — not to Say a word of the dismal effects it might produce on her at Such a time. She Sneered maliciousiy, and cried, “Oh, she has acted her part to admiration! — but there is no Surther necessity for pretending So much affection— — George has left her more than ever she expected to gain by her art — i am now deprived of him in whom all my happiness centred through her means.” “How, Madam! — for heaven’s Sake be careful, ” exclaimed I, “of what you Say! — Through her means V ‘‘yes, Lady Arne, I repeat the words — through her means — It was owing to her miscondud that she lost Sir Charles montas ue’s affections- -- thout^ht her too kind a mijirefs to make a wife of — ^
He
 ; 263
He gave Sir George Sommerville Such cogent reasons for withdrawing his addresses, as at once broke his heart — He could not outlive the knowledge of his niece’s dishonour — Sir George, poor Man! would never regulate himstlf by my advice — I foresaw what must happen very plainly.” — I declared my indignation at her viic allusion; and told her how much she would Suffer in the opinion of a world, well confirmed in a belief that Lady louisa’s virtue is imma dilate, if she continued to Speak of her in So unjust a manner. “Immaculate /” She iterated with a drawl; “yes, truly, very immaculate! — Mr. Melmoth was glad at last to shake her off — her fondness became nauseous to his palled appetite — Oh, she would have broken her heart at his deser tion, had not Sir Charles stepped in, and Supplied his place — But her amorous nature could not restrain itself — She became his mistress, as I before hinted; and in that name lost every title to an honourable union with him. — Your Ladyship stares! — Take it on my word the girl you So warmly patronise — who wears So naturally the illusory mash of innocence, is in truth a most unworthy
264 M A S CLU ERADES; or, X
worthy being? -- What I — do you think
it is in my disposition to injure heri— — no! — I would even hide her crimes, were they not too shocking for concealment — nay! after what 1 am acquainted with, were I to let her friends remain ignorant of the viper they cherish in their bolbms, I should hold myself culpable in the sight of God.
I am anxious. Lady Arne, that she should acknowledge hersclf in health, that I might bid her depart from a house, which shall no more be an asylum for vice. Her uncle, poor Sir George !.” — and here she affected to weep, ” — desired I would insist on her retiring from the world, and hiding her shame in a remote corner of Scotland, where, amongst the rest, he has left her an old mansion. In that place, ” cried he, ‘‘ the criminal girl will be Sequestered from mankind — 'she will have time to contemplate on the misery that in a Suture state must be the lot of those who Subdue not their passions;; instead of Sacrificing to Virtue, trample her laws under feet, and Scoff at So fair an appearance — there she will be mortified — be humbled — and, 1 trust, at last
be penitent. I charge you, Lady Sommer
ville.
  265
ville, to repeat these words to her — Say, that with my dying voice I lay this injunction on her, to avoid of all things beholding Sir Charles more. Tell her that she has crushed the flattering heights of happi ness my fond ideas had raised for her; and that the greatest misery which can be endured I experience in my latest moments — but I forgive and pity her.”
“How was it possible. Lady sommer ville, ” exclaimed I, “for Sir George to take at once Sir Charles montague’s evidence against his niece ^ It was unnatural, unjust — it is not feasible. His ears were inhumanly poisoned, no doubt. I will answer for the virtue of Lady Louisa Sydney !” “You are one of those predetermined
people, Lady Arne, who can never be reasoned out of an opinion they have once formed; and, rather than have it thought your judgement could err in the choice of a friend, will shut your senses to the conviction of the most flagrant faults that might appear in their conduct.” “You are at liberty. Madam, tosuppose just what you please of me, ” replied I; “it is of no consequence: but of this be assured, that there is a person
vol.iii. N who
V
t
V
266 M ASCLUERADES; or,
who will not tamely Suffer Lady louisa’s charafler to be falsely reproached — Lord Clermont will trace the matter to the bottom. If Sir Charles has been the author of Such mean lies (which I own to you I cannot believe), he must answer for them to her brother with his life.” Lady some merville changed colour, and was proceeding to invedive when I quitted her apartment.
/
I expressed my astonishment at the abominable principles that must Sway lady sommerville’s conduct“ “Madam, ” .exclaimed I, “she Speaks injuriouily of louisa!”
‘‘ if the ssightest circumstance of her charge can be proved just, ” replied Lady Arne, “I will be content to Sorfeit my existence. I am Satissied that there is not a word of truth in the whole relation. Ah, my Lord, let us beware of assisting this vile woman’s Scheme by imbibing the noxious errors she Seduloussy tempts us with! louisa is virtuous — there is no doubt of it! A young beautiful creature deprived of parents — lest to herself in a censorious age, without the countenance of any rcspedable
female
  267
female character— — be liable to great barbarity from the multitude of sianderers that pester the earth — from the envious of her own Sex, and from the libertines of yours. To reduce Louisa to Such a situation is Lady sommerville’s aim. By tarnishing her reputation, she hopes to prevent her finding any Sandlion among those the opprcffed girl looks on as friends. What Source this hatred Springs from I know not; but Lady Sommervilie shall be disappointed in a great measure. J will take the amiable louisa to my house, as Soon as her strength can admit of her removal; and whilst my Lord and I live, she shall never feel the want of parents.”
^ I commended her ladyship’s benevolence. I said I was convinced that no malevolent attack could reach louifa’s same, if under the patronage of one, whose excellent qualities were well known all over the kingdom; and that my family and self should hold the injured girl dearer than ever. We separated, and I will bid your Ladyship adieu for the present.
N 2 *
I
268
* * # « * * ♦
Friday Morning.
Julia has Suffered no other inconveniency from her journey than fatigue; the natural conscquence even to people in health of travelling posh She looks better than she has done since her illness. /
Lady Louisa has had a very good night’s rest : she has not near So great a degree of fever, and I dare Say will Soon regain her health. She and Julia distress me with their acknowledgments for the part I had in bringing them together. Isle meeting delights me almost as much as it does them, since I perceive the advantages that have accrued from it. — If louisa continues on the recovery, Julia will tomorrow acquaint her with Sir george’s death.
I have Sent my respeds to the fair ephe ftan.^ and begged permishon to make my compliments of inquiry and condolence in person — I wait the answer. The sorrowing dame has not left her apartments Since the
poor
  t6g
«
poor baronet’s death — Faith, she grieves too vehemently!
Does not an instant’s recollection bring back to your ladyship’s idea Sir George Summerville making his addresses to miss Meadows? -- The ridiculous circumstance happened not quite two years ago. Sir George was favourably received on account of his fortune — miss Meadows had not a doit, and his age and infirmities were disregarded, till one unlucky evening that she met Montague at your house. He thought her pretty, and, whilst louisa Sydney was engaged at cards, paid her Some attention. The lady’s constitution being of the amorous fort, at sight of Sir Charles was af fested — his notice shon sired her imao; ina tion with the hope of his becoming Sir george’s rival; and, for Several days after, she behaved So haughtily to her old lover, as would have caused an everlasting breach, had he not been absurd on the occasion beyond expreshon. She waited a month in the flattering notion of montague’s profeshng himself an humble Suitor, Sparing no pains to afford him an opportunity of making,
the much wished for declaration, At the
N 3 end
\
270 MAS (LU ERADES; or,
end of it, finding her expectation disappointed, she held it wisest to embrace the occasion that then offered of escaping from poverty, judicioussy Supposing that a girl of five and twenty could discover ‘‘ ways and meanp enough of engrossing many of the pleasures of life which money might procure, even with a disagreeable companion. — In fine, she married him, and, if report says true. Sir George often wished the passion of love had been confined to the demons of hell, before his bosom had felt the pangs which caused him to Solicit the union — But he is dead, and, in Spite of madam’s tears, I believe she is content! — — — Now, I have a strange idea that the lady’s unjust character of louisa proceeds from no other motive, than the Satisfying of an envious, revengeful temper, which hates her for being beloved by the man whom she would willingly have exchanged Sir George for. — pi am fiimmoned to her apartment -- -
♦ ♦ * * * *
What a Specious hypocrite is this 1 How
well
WHAT Y O U W I L L 271
well shilled in the low art of deceit! — On my entrance to her private drawing-room, she advanced Several paces to meet me. Her black stowing robes, and white handkerchief, gave her the mournful dignity of a tragedy queen, whilst an attendant stood behind her, habited also in the appendages of woe, with a smelling bottle in her hand, which frequently was applied to the discon. folate fair one’s nose. Have I not heard it Said, Madam, that women of a particular Cast find comfort in the death of a husband, from the recollection of the becoming air their Sables, will give? My life for it. Lady Sommerville took a degree of pleasure in her fpousc’s last moments from the thought! her dress was studied, it fitted her shape to admiration; the black Set off her shin and complexion; and altogether! never Saw her person appear to So much advantage. She accepted of my hand, which I offered to condu<5l her back to her Seat; and, after the poignancy of her astliclion was a little abated, she found a multiplicity cf words to pour forth her doleful lamentations on the loss she had sustained in a man, whose soul was the congenial partner of her own — a man
/ N 4 in
MASQ.FERADES; or,
in whom her life was so wrapped up that she was convinced Jhe could not long survive him -- ^ and from that reflection she derived consolation. I cannot tell your Ladyship the hundredth part of the laughable stuff she uttered — At length she introduced the fnbjedfc of louisa and Montague : almost verbatim was I obliged to listen to the account that was given Lady Arne. I believe she was vexed at the composure with which I did foi fixed my eyes steadily on her, during the whole relation. She imagined that I Saw through the falsehood which she Spoke — conscious guilt ssushed her cheeks — she hesitated in her delivery with an awkward embarrassment. In short, had I before any doubts, her manner was Sufficient to have convinced me, that she was only a vile calumniator of perfect innocence, As you make this story. Madam, ” cried I, “very common, you can Surely have no objection to entrust me with montague’s letter to Sir George, Which you Say revealed to him his niece’s miscondikst. It was not altogether generous of my friend Montague, to publish the indulgence he obtained of a lady, — But pray let me read the letter.” She turned pale,
“Would
‘r
  173
Would it were in my power, my Lord, to gratify you !” replied she. “My dear Sir George, just before he died, made me commit it to the flames. It was owing to that fatal letter that I am now left to bewail his death!’" ^ ’
“What was his motive, Madam, for having it destroyed
“That it might not be a testimony of her shame.’"
‘‘ Good God, how vou astonish me! I supposed, that, by way of wreaking vengeance on bis unfortunate niece, he had enjoined you to Spread the tale abroad; and I believed, that the violence of your affection for him compelled you, against charity — against compashon, to obey So readily his last commands, which you were careful to fulfil, even in the Smallest point, by Speaking freely of this infamous story, before your very Servants.”
“He made no request to me of Secrecy, my Lord; and I do not chuse to have my character called in question, by harbouring an abandoned creature in my house.”
“Ah, Madam, have a care that your present grief is not a burlesque on the men
5 mory
‘ \
V
274 M A S (UE R A D E S; or,
mory of a man whose virtues demand tears that come Spontaneousty from the heart! Had you the affection you So strenuousiy declare, everything that was dear to him would be equally So to you — you would have kept this recital (in which I must be bold enough to Say there is not the least probability of truths from the world — Sir george’s niece in you would find a tender proiecstrcss, instead of a merciless persecutor.”
Here I unhappily brought on a terrible storm. The affiifted Lady thought hersclf ill-used in my daring to doubt the sincerity of her grief. She called me an unfeeling savage— — impertinent wretch! — ashed, if Such were the compliments I had in view to make her, when I Sent the mock mes fage of refpest? She desired me to quit her house immediately, and to take with me the fweeti amiable Louisa, who, she must venture to assert, would have no objeflion to me, or any of my Sex, that would Supply the place of Sir Charles Montague. After this, she fell into a violent hysteric fit, from whence I left her woman to recover her as Soon as it was judged proper.
To
 75
To be Sure, my situation is rather embar rashng. To remain in the house of a per son to whom I wish to be under no obligation, and who has peremptorily desired my absence from it, is insupportable !^ — but to remove louisa, who is yet unacquainted with her uncle's death, is a thing not to be done. My pride must be humbled, and her Ladyship a little further troubled with my residence in “her house— — mortifying I — However, I cannot leave my three amiable companions to become the victims of Such a fury.
**** *»»»«
I
Friday Evening,
I presume Lady Sommerville was struck with Some Sentiments of shame for what had happened, when her pashon was abated. She Sent for me two hours ago, and, with a wtvy jiately air, condescended to apologise for the harsh epithets she had used in her agony of mind., as she termed it — flattered herself I would pardon them, and honour her house si) far as to make Some stay in it. She Said, she was just told that my sister
N 6 had
276 M AS (UE R AD S; or,
had done her the favour of a visit: she hoped to be able to collect strength enough to entertain her in a few days — though Lady Julia could not expect much amusement in the Society of one So lost to pleasure as she was, and must ever be, thus Separated from Sir George — but her gratitude was warmly excited towards Lady Julia for the charitable ad she had done, in coming to her at Such a time I thanked her for her politeiiess, and declared it would not be in our power to accept of her invitation, as we only waited for Lady louisa’s being in a condition to travel, to attend her from sommerville house to Lady arne^s.
“To Lady arne’s I” exclaimed she: “what! will Lady Arne be hardy enough to undertake the charge of her, after the caution my good nature prompted me to give! — However, Lord arne’s is not the place her uncle appointed her to repent in! I will go this minute, and deliver his last message to Lady louisa — I will omit in no article to mark out her duty to her — if she fails in obeying, I am not amenable to heaven — I must acquit my conscience !”
She was flying hastily towards the door, when 1 caught hold of her —
1‘ Stop,
/
  ayy
“Stop, Madam !’* cried, I: “you forget that you cannot immediately Summon strength to leave your apartment — a few days hence will Scarcely afford it to you !** Oh, what a rage she was in! — She attempted to strike me as I drew her towards her Seat — never did I See one of the Sex appear So masculine as she did at the time. I waited patiently after 1 had replaced her, till she had vented her indignation; determined, if she should be attacked with another fit, not to stir till she had gone through the whole process, and I had in Some measure brought her out of her transports. The moment of tolerable composure at last arrived, and she alked me how it happened, that 1 testified So little regard for my sister’s honour, as to let her be the companion of a creature lost to every principle of virtue r — ff, my Lord, ” added she, “Lady Pemberton was informed of those circumstances I have mentioned to you, she would not esteem Lady julia’s associating with a wretch like louisa, Such a matter of indifference — But young men, like yosir Lordship, make light of these affairs !’^ y Too much, dear Madam, has been already
t
iys MASCLUERA D E S; o r,
i
ready Said on this silly subje(5l:. My sist^r*^s honour is the Same with me as my own — it will receive no prejudice from the Society of Lady louisa. We will accept of the kind offer you make us of your house for a few days; in that time our patient may be better, and we will trouble you no longer.’* She burst into a terrible flood of tears, which was the only passage her Spite could have, and I retired
* * * ^ *
/
I have been consulting with Lady Arne and Julia about informing louisa of her uncle’s death — they agree with me in thinking it best not to postpone the disagreeable intelligence till tomorrow, lest Lady some merville should anticipate us, whose rude discovery of Such a calamity would certainly be productive of bad consequences. Was it to effect her destrudlion, I am persuaded Lady Sommerville would be delighted. — • It is resolved, that my Sister shall direflly prepare her to expect the worst, by Spying that Sir George is very ill — Julia is gone to louisa’s apartment for the purpose — I sincerely pity them both!
It
•»
  279
It is not possible to describe how uneasy Julia was when I related to her and Lady Arne all that passed between Lady some merville and me. I thought it right to conceal nothing from her. She wept exceedingly, and, putting her arm through mine, exclaimed, “My dearest brother, what obligations you lay me under, for thus befriending a poor orphan who is So cruelly aspersed! Ah, my Lord, again you are all goodness, all tenderness to your Julia !” -- -- And now let me assure your Ladyship,
that I am convinced my sister’s engaging in Scenes of the fort, however dis treffing, is beneficial to her in one respedt: they carry her ressedtions from herself, and leave her not a moment to think of of mond. Time, the great destroyer of all attachments, and absence, its twin brother, will, I trust, finish the great work, and wholly eradicate him from her breast.
It much puzzles me to conjecture from what cause Sir Charles montague’s behaviour has proceeded. I he more I ressecst on the motive which it is Said induced him to wave the connexion he was on the point of making, the more frivolous does
it
3^0 M AS du E R A D E S J or,
it Seem in my eyes. He always appeared too prudent to be drawn into deep play; and why his disposition should So Suddenly change, and he forget his usual discretion, more especially on the eve of his nuptials, I cannot conceive I If he was addi(sted to gaming, he indulged himself in it So Secretly, as to leave no clue by which his most intimate friends could guess at his pashon. He has ever been thought a man of the stridlcst honour. Some reason unfathomable has caused this rupture — the hazard table I believe is innocent of the charse
o
laid against it. What must we conclude — that loiiisa is in faultno! it is impossible 1 Purity and virtue are impressed on her countenance — delicacy and modesty are marked in every word — in every turn. A devil in human shape, then, has worked k. — Lady Sommerville — ah!! she not have been too busy! — The mischief is done, and whether the evil perpetrator will ever stand confessed. Heaven only knows !- — Clermont cannot, I suppose, be pashve. I wonder he comes not over — he has been long exp cted. — Upon the whole, the unhappy girl has been ill used by Sir Charles,
and
WHAT Y O U W I L L 28*
and the matter should be narrowly Scrutinised.
I shall attend my Lady Arne, and Julia, to an exceeding pretty Seat my Lord has in the New Forest, where he waits to receive her Ladyship and their new charge. i^ady Arne is ail politeness: she treats Julia with the tenderness of a mother, and has besought her in the most earnest manner to Spend Some months with her and theassii(5ted louisa. As Soon as I See them Settled at Wallingbrook abbey, 1 will return to windsor, and, with your ladyship’s permishon, proceed with you, my wife, and Almeria, to Hertfordshire, where bu finess calls me at this moment.
I hope Caroline goes on well. — I do not think she has heartily forgiven me for a few certain incidents that passed lately! — I beg you will be So good as to plead with her for me.
* * * * 53^ #
Friday Night.
The painful tale is told! When Julia informed Lady louisa that Sir George was
much
282
much indisposed, she exclaimed, “Why this prelude.? — Tell me — Speak it at once — tell me that my uncle — my dear uncle no longer lives! — Your countenance — Julia, he is gone! — I have lost my only protector— — friend — my parent!” My fis ter endeavoured to compose her, and exhorted her to resseft on the fortitude we are obliged to exert as Christians on Such trying occasions. Her affliction was very poignant. I will not excite your melancholy by entering into particulars; but the shock was too rough for her at Such a time, though it had approached her under the gentlest form that could be given it. She had not received the intelligence two hours, when ' Lady Sommerville made her appearance : Julia and Lady Arne were administering consolation to the wretched girl at the moment. It was the first time she had deigned to visit loiiisa’s apartment since her ill ness, and then she came fraught with baneful purposes. Her mourning habit, added to the unexpected sight of her, affected louisa violently, and she fainted. Happy was it that her senses forsook her when they
did,
\
*
  283
did, else Lady sommerville’s address must, I think, have deprived her of reason for ever.
“So, Lady louisa !*’ cried she, you take fine state upon you after having murdered your unfortunate uncle !^ — Sir Charles Montague, Madam, has published yotir infamy; — and to the loss of your honour you certainly must attribute his desertion — I am left a miserable widow through
• I • ^
your means -- -- Have done wiin this hypocrisy,
and listen to what I am about to Say 1”
Julia whispered an attendant to find nie, and desire my immediate presence; then, taking Lady Sommerville by the arm, she led her to a remote part of the room, and there implored her with tears to share her unhappy friend further anguish. 1 entered before she had an opportunity of replying, and without any ceremony lifted the fury in my arms, and, in Spite of struggling blows, a powerful quantity of virulence and abuse, conveyed her to another apartment. A reproached her with great harshness for her t; ruelty; and Swore, if she
offered
284 M AS Q, U TRADES; of,
offered to take the least measure to annoy the peace of Lady louisa, during the short remainder of her abode at sommerville house, I would find an easy way of making her Severely repent it. She looked terrified, and I left her. I wish to God we could go from hence! Every moment is an age that we stay under the roof of this female Dionysius.
I
^ ^ ^ * * *
Saturday Morning.
Contrary to our expectations, louisa has had tolerable repose— — physician pronounces his patient in a fair way. As I am So Sdllicitous to quit this place, he thinks she might (with great caution) be removed on Monday morning, provided no change for the worse happens in the intermediate space. Lady Arne and my sister have made it a point never to leave her apartment together, fearful of another invasion from Lady Sommerville.
Adieu,
  28$
Adieu, dear Madam! I will no longer keep you anxious about Julia. — A few lines must accompany this letter to my wife. For the Sake of expedition one of my Servants shall be dispatched with both, — Embrace all with you, for your ladyship’s
'Most respedlfully devoted,
«
And affestionatc
m
Pemberton.
I
To Lady Dowager Pemberton.
• »
jvinchejier,
WE have, dear Madam, by easy stages,.
removed louisa from sommerville house to this place. She has born travelling
4
/
2s6 mas Q, U ER ad E S; or,
t
ling very well, and the variety of Scenes Serves to check her grief. With much difficulty we prevented a meeting between her and Lady Sommerville; they were both strenuous for it, from very different motives. Actual force was used to detain the latter from bursting into the presence of the invalid; and she often alked whether we meant to make aprifoner of her in her own house?? — favourite expression of the lady’s, which shows, that, had Fortune not been ‘u^ry, very blind, she would not have been licensed to use it with propriety. Louisa, in the tenderest manner, beibught our permission to take leave of her unhappy aunt, and to condole with her on their common loss. However ill natured it might Seem, it was held right to refuse her.
Julia is employed in offices of friendship. Her countenance wears a melancholy cast : whether it takes its colour from the afflidlions of louisa, or whether what she terms her own are predominant, I can nor determine — certain it is, her cheerfulness has entiiely forsaken her. She is all gentleness— — Solicitude to please — but appears totally deprived of everything that
^ borders
  a
borders on happiness. If the cause is as I suspedt, I cannot but be provoked, that, through romantic ideas, she renders herself completely miserable. However, the perverseness of girls dispositions is Such, that to press one of them to think well of a man, whom in a moment of caprice she has vowed never to marry — let that man be ever So perfect — only rivets her resolution the faster, and she Supposes she proves an heroic virtue in combating the opposition her inclination meets with. We must therefore Say nothing of Suffolk yet. When Julia finds that we have ceased to be urgent on the fubject, she may fuppose he has given up the pursuit — her vanity will be hurt — rshe will look back with regret on the alliance she might have made — osmond will be forgotten — and she will gladly put herself in the way of djscovering whether suffolk’s pashon has cooled — then he will play his part — and we shall rejoice in his fuccess. Ail this I hope a little rhyme will effect! — I received a letter yesterday from the Duke. I am inexpreshbly glad that he is again capable of writing.
tomorrow we proceed on our journey,
and
0 — — -
#
and expect to reach Wallingbrook abbey
on Saturday evening. I cannot refuse an invitation I have had from my Lord Arne which was strengthened by preshng 'ones from my Lady, to Spend at least a few days with them. I mean to bid adieu to the amiable pair early on wednesday, and hope to have the honour of kissing your hand on that night. If any alteration should happen in louisa, your Ladyship
will be troubled with another letter from, ear Madam,
1
Your ever obedient,
/
And most affectionate
Pembertoic.’
I
t
/
%
%
END or VOL. III
I
• \
MASQUERADES,
OR,
WHAT YOU WILL
BY THE
AUTHOR OF ELIZA WARWICK, c
%
$
FOUR VOLUMES.
V O L IV
%
LONDON
«
for J. B E W, in Pater nofter rovir*
<
\
 ,
cp

^0 Lady Julia Herbert.'
#
\
Windsor,
WE L L my beloved girl! at length
am I at liberty to write to you from the uninterrupted calm which presides over your situation. Your fears are 119 longer excited on our louifa’s account - — You are no longer persecuted with the name of Suffolk, or his more odious addresses — You have escaped from Seymour — from Belsielde — from ail who laid siege to your heart unsuccessfully. You are now at ieisure to find satisfa<si; ion in a letter vol, IV B from
U

from me, and to let me experience the joy of conversing with you, though at the distance of many miles. — Burr, alas, Julia! my Subjcdls must all run in the melancholy strain. I have no Spirits now that you are gone from me. The romantic shades of Windsor— — shades we used to wander through with Such exquisite delight, lost their charms in every one’s opinion when they lost you. Our favounte haunts — the Hermitage — the wilderness — the footpath to the Pavilion -- all, all wore a
different aspedl: from that moment; and, when we viewed the change, stew from them with afflicted precipitation, discouragecl
from re tracing them again. — Restore the pleasure you have robbed us of, my dear sister, by coming Speedily to us. Bring with you louisa Sydney, and we will join you in striving to render her once more eheerful.
In two days after my brother arrived here, he Set off with my mother, his wife, and Alrneria, for Hertfordshire. We are entirely deserted by all but Lady Caroline Deniey and Emily, who have promised to Temain with us till we go up to London
icr
N
 ; t
for the winter. I am resolved not to quit windsor, in Spite of all the entreaties I received from the party that the Duke expects to entertain at his Seat near Canterbury, the latter end of next month. My Lord refuses to go without me. I like none of the group, not 1! I almost detest the Peer who has the honour of being my uncle; and I am not a jot more cordial towards his daughter, who styles herself my sister. — Good Heaven! how actuated by pique is human nature! — Lady Sophia cannot forgive a person, whose name it is needless to mention, for once Saying that Jhe was very inferior in point of beauty to Lady Julia Herbert. If she had as faithful spies in every company where a comparison between the two happens to be started, she would certainly hate and despise all the world in a short time! But I did not imagine her displeasure at Such a trisse could have been attended with malice in the extreme degree it has. The old duke’s aversion to that Same unfortunate person took its rise from a very Severe sarcasrn his father threw on him in a warm debate in
the house of Lords many years ago — it
B 2
N
I
^ '
was too keen — nay, perhaps, too just, ever to be pardoned from the heart, though their Sentiments accorded So exaduy with the Stanhc'pean System, that they kept up the forms of civility, whilst enmity towards each other cankered in their breasts. My good uncle has extended his resentment to the Son, trying as far as in him lies to “visit the sins of the father upon the third and fourth generation/’ c— — conformity with this tenet, he Snatched the opportunity of exercising his wrath, and cut off, by baleful advice, which had too great weight with Lady Pemberton, the happi ness of an already .persecuted amiable Son, But most devoutly do I pray that his'vindictive temper, his daughter’s vanity, and • my brother’s pride, may be humbled by their being obliged to call that very person by the names of nephew and brother !• — So far does my malice go, and no further. — Yet God knows I am in fact only supplicating Providence to bestow an honour on them, that they are unworthy of! Keep up your Spirits, dear Julia, and rely that all Will be well. The blessed' days you have experier: ed, must again take
their
* ^
  5
their turn, and the present gloom that predominates Soon give way to a bright ilin shine. You want Some of my courage. Did you possess what I suppose
are pleased to think I could Spare, you would now be in France, the wife and
companion of -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- — your heart
will Supply the blank. I should be engaged in a glorious Scene of altercation, were any of our wise ones to see this letter;; they are far enough away, and there is no fear of the post boy’s mistaking Hertfordshire for Hampshire!
I have a piece of news to tell you, which is ashiding — Col. Elliot no longer exists! — An express my Lord received this morning, mentions him'amongst the killed in the last battle our forces had with the Americans. — I know not whether Aimeria will regret him — I think she must at least be Sensibly shocked at hearing of his fate — Yet she has a happy method of reconciling misfortunes to her mind — She will say, that, ' though he had never seen her, his destiny would have been the same, since he could not refuse to obey orders, and
follow his regiment, ro the continent -- --
^ S She
> •
6 MAS LV ERAD ES; or,
She will forget that his passion for her caused him to embrace the opportunity ot Signalising himself with avidity, and most probably urged him on, in the hazardous enterprise which cost him his life. — Poor Elliot! — I am one of the many who sincerely lament your untimely fall! — But to dwell on this theme cannot benefit him, and will only throw you and myself into the horrors.
You can but ill imagine how much on the rack of curiosity I am to learn the reason of montague’s extraordinary behaviour to louisa... the one that Lady
Sommerviile alleges, is abominable, and can gain no credit with any of us. — By the by, Julia, I must mention (take it which way you will) that I could not help laughing heartily at Some of my brother’s descriptions of that Lady -- I should have
enjoyed many of her freaks wonderfully! But to return, — louisa, I think, cannot but form conjectures why he conducted himself So oddly. As appearances stand, he deserves to be hanged — I am Sorry he has forfeited my good opinion — he is a Smart,
agreeable creature, and was a great favourite
WHAT YOU WILD i rite of mine. — I hope louisa will not
like a fool, and pine to death on the desertion of a worthless animal! — Good God
what cheats the men are! -- was i not
already tied to one of the deceitful wretches, I would revenge louisa’s disappointment, by forswearing the whole Sex, and inculcate the position in every fair maiden’s bosom that would listen to me. suppose, my dear Julia, you were to undertake the cause!! yoursels from mankind; never ressect on an individual amongst them but with contempt and aversion. Your coral lips will attradh as numerous a Sect as ever Surrounded a Whitfield, a Madan, or a Westlcy. No old women, who, having tired the world and themseives with profligacy, and incapable of continuing their vicious course, take it in their heads to bei
^
come pious, can dare to intrude on your community — — No; beautiful, innocent damsels will compose your flock, all emulous to learn your precepts, and copy your example. How gloriousiy will the wily arts of destrudtive man be Subverted! How gloriousiy will you avenge on the whole race the misery that one of it has
B 4 gwea
%
t
/
S
given to louisa! — A charming opportunity, indeed, awaits you, of putting your friendship to the test.
I know I displease you by this levity, at the instant I exercise it with a design to make you Smile — but, for heaven’s sake, let us have no more tears! 1 vow I never
looked at you of late, but it worked the same effect on me, as an hour’s abode in trophonius’s cave would have done. Crying, my dear girl, will tend to no other purpose than that of Spoiling your beauty; and I cannot imagine you have given up all relish for viewing a sine image in your glass— — advised by me; and as you have found no advantage from incessant weeping, try now the efficacy of incessant laughing. I hated Lord Chesterfield from the minute I difeovered that he prohibited that charming evolution of the features, and I have fet it down in my idea that he had not a tooth in his head; or, if he had any, that they were so black, he thought it right to conceal them — therefore tried to render it the custom not to go beyond a Smile. — “Well!” you cry, “and he succeeded— — but Boret laugh now.’*
— We
ft
r
 . f
— We will reverse the horrid fashion, Julia — none but Bores shall look grave. — Sure, we are of consequence enough to in strudt people how to wear their features ^ well as his Lordship!
^
i
.*• * ^ ^ 8^
\
Westbrook is arrived, my dearest sister He left our friend in Paris with Mr,. Montague, from which place they intended to Set off the next day for S witzerland^ Isle Marquis, he says, is a picture of love and despondency; but his health is. as good as a perfon’s can be, who labours under distress of the acutest Sort. I en elose a letter which Westbrook was bid i convey with great care to your hands., N lover will Speak his own passion best;. So. I refer you to him. He was urgent to come over to England with, Sir Jaraes, S andl actually intended it, had he not received a letter from Lord Mortimer the day before they proposed quitting Paris on their return, which strongly recommended to
hka to remain abroad Some months, tilt
Bs fasr
m
10
part of your family could be Softened towards him, by the measures that should be taken for the purpose by the other part. With infinite relucstance he obeyed, as he, will no doubt tell you; and made choice of one of the Cantons, as a place he could best lament So cruel a Separation sin.
Sir James met Mr. Norton at Calais: they came over in the Same vessel, and, through the persuasions of Westbrook, he honoured us So far as to accompany him tc>
windsor. -- -- Mr. Norton came ’to take
possession of an estate left him by a cousin of his, else he did not mean to leave Italy So Soon. We knew very little of him, which was to our disadvantage: few people .'improve more on acquaintance than he does. He is Sensible and clever, and there is an ingenuity in his manner that 1 like extremely. I questioned him about Lord Clermont. He told me he is yet at Rome, and hinted, that a native of that capital detains him there So long: “However, ’*' added Mr. Norton, he assured me, that I should see him in this kingdom in two months after my arrival.’*
Embrace the amiable Louish for me,
^4
4
■, I > •
and’ fail not to present my thanks to' Lord! and Lady Arne for their kindness to you Adieu,, my dearest Julia! May youi receive the joy that I wish you from th enclosed packet! prays,,
Your ever affectionate
caroeine mortimeiiv
\
To Lad Mort i mer.
tvilltnghrooh 'ahifsf^^
WHAT a temptation, have yoiir
thrown in my way — Ah,, Garo ^ line, my dear sister, could you. not hav; laved me this conssid;! Gould you: not: : have Said, Lord osmond has Sent you an letter, burr, knowing that your words is, pledged not to read it, J Spare you there torment of viewing the Superscription,, and!; w ith hold. I shouldi have thankedl
B ysowr"
^•12
your friendship, though it might have appeared a cruel one. But oh, Lady Mortimer! you either forget, or affect to do So, the restridlions I voluntarily laid myself under — Is it to try me? — Alas! 1 require no more trials, and should expect them last from you." -- enclosed the letter is returned to you — I dare not break the Seal.
The mortification — that is too cold a word ■ — the misery I endure on the occasion is inexpreshble. Keep it till those better days you expect, and I despair of, come: then Shall 1 look back with pleasure on th is piece of self-denial, which my honour calls upon me to exert; and think my happiness without allay, in the ressedion of having by no ad: contrary to integrity attained the end of all my wishes. I forebode the evils that may follow from my not reading this dear letter — yes, Caroline, they crowd upon my imagination, and make me wretched. (osmond, my amiable osmond, will naturally Suppofethatl have given him tip; that, terrified by my mother’s — my brother’s anger, I have Sponged him from my heart, and Substituted in
his room their minion Suffolk, He will
despise
\

despise my instability -- Such weakness
must cure him -- -- he will Seek a more deserving
mistress,. and abandon his unfortunate Julia to the heartbreaking anguish of deploring his lost affections! This fate awaits me — yet I am resolved not to evade it, by any breach of promise, more especially one made to a parent.
Receive mv thanks for the account (however short) you gave me of him. I rejoice that he is well; and though I wish him not to be quite easy at a distance from me, still I should be glad to know that his mind was more composed, and I no less dear to him than ever — Now, I must shortly expect to learn that his Spirits are once more gay; but that I am abhorred by hini
as an example of infidelity -- How ash I
to Support it 1 — Lady Mortimer, no words can do justice to my love — judge then of the consequences— — — — Subject draws Sa many tears on my paper as will Scarcely leave a vestige of what I write — it is impossible to change it — I must dispatch the dangerous enticement which lies before me, and answer the other material paragraph

I
\
s4  graph of your letter tomorrow— —
bless my dearest sister!
Julia he rbrt;
» <*
To Lad; ^ Mortimer.
! wautnghro&h ahhey*
YOIJ gave me an opportunity, mjr
dear Sister, of diffusing a ray of jo^r' on the clouded brow of Louisa— — is pleased at hearing of Mr. norton’s return; to England Sooner than she expected.
I will Satisfy your curiosity relative to? Sir Charles Montague as far as J am able; though when I tell you all that Louisa and I know, you will still find it as perplexing an affair as we do. I enclose you the. letter she received from Sir Charles Mon
* Julia here gives her filler an account of the manner in which Lady Louisa was taken ill, c, much in the same way that Lady Arne gave it to lord Pemberton,.
pguei.

tague, at her own request : return it the next time that you write. I am in great hopes, that, when she recovers, the effects of the shock that this cruel business has given, she will accustom her mind to re fiedt on the author of it with contempts She reasons very Sensibly upon it, and Says,, if Sir Charles broke off the match from, any capricious motive, the lots of him mght not to be regretted : — if from listening to the tales that Mr. Melmoth (whom; she luspedls) might have fabricated for the purpose of interrupting their union, he is; unworthy of a sigh for placing a confidence in him, and not Suffering her to vindicate herself by laying his charge before her — At any rate he has behaved ungenerousiy and she thinks it her duty, in every fense, to endeavour to hold him with indifference. she is ignorant, you may suppose, of Lady sommerville’s barbarous afpersions — they may make a trifling prejudice on vulgar souls against her; but, I am Sure, they can have no effeiff: on any of my family, who all know her worth. However, to convince you of the falsehood of what she Said concerning Mr. Melmoth, I send you, by
i6   ok,
the Special hand that conveys this to you, the key of my escritoir, which I left at Windsor. In it you will find all louisa’s letters. One of then!, dated Soon after your marriage, mentions her having discarded him, arid in it is enclosed a letter from Mr. Mtdmoth, which accompanied back all tliose she had written to him Her epistles will plainly demonstrate the;
rectitude and purity of her Sentiments
Sentiments incompatible with So licentious a condurit as the wicked Lady Sommerville; represented.
Poor Colonel Elliot f — Dear Caroline, I
cannot describe how concerned I am at his
%
catastrophe! -- My God! not ten
months ago, we Saw him enjoying the great career of the beau monde, little thinking how Soon he would be Snatched from the gay scene— — now where is he.? What you say of Almcria. is just; but it is better she should think in that manner for her own sake.
Lord and Lady Arne are indeed all kindness— — use every method to soothe the sorrows of lotiisa — they tell her their
jhappinefs is wrapped in hers — that she ia
nowt
t
/
0
  17
now their child, and the only command they expect her to obey is to be cheerful. •
I am often reproached by them for feeding her melancholy, by being So myself — Ah I Lady Mortimer, have I not cause for it?
This morning Lady Arne told us that we lead too Solitary lives; and, if we had no objection, she would carry us to her house at Southampton, where we should see company, and have an opportunity of partaking in the amusements of the place.
“Besides, ” added she, “I want people to envy me the charge of two Such girls !” louisa assented immediately — it was death, to me to think of it — Yet I have no idea > of making others Subscribe to my inclinations, when I can avoid it by giving up to theirs — But, my amiable Caroline! what will become of me, if through complaisance
I must hurry into Society and revels! -- 1
cannot do it. Should I find myself So disagreeably circumstanced, I will Seek refuge with you and my dear brother. When louisa takes pleasure in assemblies, concerts, cc. she can require my prelence no longer — it will be an antidote to mirth! Do not imagine that I am insensible to your
tenderness
^ *
\
is
tenderness in wishing me with you — was I to follow my inclination, I should Soon be in your arms; but my motive in this visit, was to endeavour to restore louifa’s bosom to its once tranquil state. To leave her just now, would render the talk I have undertaken imperfect; and for her to leave Lady Arne, must Seem ungrateful — however, I trust, I shall Soon be at liberty to return.
It is impossible to mention the satisfaction I should have in Seeing my excellent friend Sir James. — Say nothing of it to him — his good nature will prompt him, if you do, to come down directly, and it may be thought, that he comes with dispatches from him who is dearer to me than life.
You must allow me to chide you for the freedom you used, in your letter, with many persons whom you ought to regard in a fairer light.
Embrace Lady Caroline and Emily for me : assure them of the grateful sense I entertain of their goodness, and convince Westbrook that I regard him warmly. .Heaven preserve my dear sister I Sajr
all
s
  if
all that is tender to my Lord, for his and
Your truly affectionate
t
Julia Herbert
\
^
>
To Lady Julia Herbert.
Windfori
I Have received both your letters — it is unkind of you, Julia, to accuse me of throwing painful trials in your way, when you must know that my afiudion — my tenderness for you, would Screen you from a moment’s uneasiness, could I compass it by any method in the world. Your notions of honour are much to be admired; yet I believe there are few instances in life of Such strict adherence to it, as you have exemplified on this late occasion. Far be it from me to encourage you to invade the limits you have marked — No, my dear girl,
yoi4
*
20   or,
V
you are right— — pity you — I pity osmond — and hope heaven will reward the Sacrifice •* you make to duty, by turning all to your mutual advantage.
1 gave your first letter to my Lord — he, perused it twice with great attention, and put it into his pocket. I ashed him for it -- --
“I must keep it, Caroline, cried hej it may be of consequence !’*
“I entreated to know how?
“Be Satisfied, ’^ replied he, “that I mean it should answer a particular point. For your Sake — for julia’s, inquire no further.” '
'Like a good wife I obeyed, convinced that whatever he intended to do with it, would turn out well.
I thank you for the pleasure you afforded me in reading louisa’s packets — I required no Such proof of her innocence, — I took the liberty of showing them to Lord Mortimer, who often Speaks of her, and Says, he is persuaded that Sir Charles Montague has been imposed on by the contrivance of Some deceitful wretch. I am
delighted to think that she will exert a proper
  r
%
Spirit, and despise So false a creature, ' We know not how we shall behave under particular afflictions till we are immerged in them. She Says, in one of her letters. Life without Sir Charles would be a torment, and could not long be endured Since his desertion she has changed her idea, and very justly declares “he ought not to be regretted A Sensible woman will always ad: thus. When we discover our mistake, and find a man dispossessed of the good qualities which we blindly loved him for having — in the name of wonder
what continues our attachment? We can
*
no longer ascribe it to his merit certainly! and any other motive is too low to occupy a refined breast.
Mr. Norton left us yesterday under a promise of returning tomorrow night. He €xped; ed to have heard, on inquiring for Lady lcuisa, that she was married, and expressed much wonder at our answers to his questions, which were only Such' as common fame authorised us to give. He ' ashed where Sir Charles was? My Lord replied, he believed in Wales. Mr. Norton looked very grave the remainder of the
time
t
22 MAS(^UERADES; or,
I
time we were together, and was remarkably Silent. From what I have since discovered in a packet of louisa’s, I account for the alteration in him. Upon my word, Julia, 1 think, after all, the best thing she can do, is to marry Mr. Norton — unless he turns out a most egregious cheat (which, after montague’s^^//<?«/ behaviour, I would not Swear against), the chances are a hundred to one that he would make her very happy — I have no doubt but he meditates proposing to her.
Westbrook vent three days ago to join his regiment at -- -- -- -. He has contrived
So well as to engage emily’s promise to marry him in six weeks, or two months at farthest. Their nuptials will be celebrated here. miss Edgeumb and her aunt still keep their kind resolution of staying with me till I go up to London, which we agreed last night should not be till the Seventh of January. My Lord chuses to keep his Christmas in the country — 1 am glad that I shall not be obliged'to carry him to town Sooner; and there will be full time enough to make prepaiations for emily’s introduction at court as Lady Westbrook,
  23
brook, previous to the birthday— — help your poor Caroline! dire<stly on my arrival in the gay metropolis, I shall be immured like a prisoner, for Some weeks. Sir James will be at windsor as osten as
his duty from -- -- -- can admit of it —
this happens to be a busy time with him. I look with impatience for your return; and, for her own Sake as well as mine, wish Louisa may very shortly be able to Spare yon— — am Sure it would be more a greeable to you to be here. Not one of the party but knows how you are situated, and eacii would go through a great deal to effect your happiness and Lord ofmond’s.
I must tell you it is actually asserted, that the Duke of Westmoreland has made his addresses in form to Lady Henrietta marchmont— — Davenport was charmed at it, and laid his commands for the first time of her life on his daughter to accept him as a lover. Her Ladyship did not much like Such a one, and remonstrated — It was to no purpose— — father would have his way, and the union will Soon take place. All my hope is, that she will break her hus band’s heart in a month after — she has
Spirit
R M A S (UE R A D E S; o R,
spirit enough to do it thank heaven! When you ressedl: on what passed between the old monster and Sir Charles (whichsin answer to Some question you ashed the day before you left us, my Lord related to you), can you blame me for praying that everything bad may befall him? If you can, I hold Such apathy, as you no doubt plume yourself upon, in contempt, and prize my warm active spirit, which is ever ready to execrate an enemy, and to “wear in my heart’s core, — aye, in my heart of heart, ” a generous friend. The Marchmonts and his Grace are still at Brighthelmstone.
Now that I am on the connubial topic, I must not fail to inform you, that miss Pelham became the wife of Colonel Melvin last week; she is an amiable young woman, and deserves to be happy. — I tremble for the condudf of Charlotte Pelham, now that she is left to herself— — mother is So silly. So vain, and So indolent !^ — She can regard nothing but her person — and the unfortunate girl, with strong pashons, has not a grain of discretion to lave her from the dire effefls of yielding to them.
i

« • • • • « «

Friday Night^
Mr. Norton is here, and in close conference with my Lord. I take it. Some important business relative to Louisa is transacting between them. We have discovered, by the letter I have already alluded to, the strict confidence she ever placed in him, and I suppose my Lord judges it right to lay before him the Scandalous lies that have been propagated by Lady Sommerville. He is louisa’s sincere friend as well as lover — he will take proper steps on the occasion, which his intimacy with Lord Clermont
warrants -- -- Mylord enters — I hope he
will enable me to tell you the tenor of their discourfe!
m
Heavens! Julia, what a request has he made! — Good God, 1 know not what to
do! -- -- He intreats me to give him all
louisa’s letters for Mr. norton’s perusal— — says that they may be the means of restoring her to happiness — that you can have no objection, when you make that con
Vot* IV Consideration
t
26
Sideration. He urges many arguments that appear forcible— — that may be from my thinking him incapable of doing wrong! — I have' begged ten minutes to ponder on the matter- -- know not yet what to determine,
and the time is nearly elapsed
-- -- — Mortimer! — my dear husband!! —
perplexed a Situation have you rendered mine!
4
I
******* * *
t
Julia, I am afraid to inform you that he has got them I — You will chide — you will
think me ungenerous -- -- your Secrets as
well as louisa’s, you will Say, are betrayed
l- -- my dear sister, not Sono
creature will See them but he who is
a real friend to both. if I have erred,
reflect on the motive which biassed me, and pardon me. The stutter my Spirits are thrown sinto by this unexpected demand, quite discomposes me — I will retire to bed,
«
if: - * * * * »
f
Saturday
%
\

Saturday Morning.
Lord Mortimer, my dear Sister, has acquainted me with a circumstance I never had Suspicion of before. He consents to my imparting it to you, on condition that you do not reveal a Syllable of the affair to louisa, till he gives you leave.
He has a packet in his possession for Lord osmond from Sir Charles Montague, with a letter to himself commissioning him to read the former. That packet discovers to us the whole perfidy which was pradlised against your friend. — Montague was So easily duped by a silly woman, that I think he deserves to be punished, — and yet more for having no confidence in louisa ' Sydney. The packet, with my lord’s letter from Sir Charles *, shall be Sent to you by one of our Servants, who shall also be the bearer of this.
You will be Surprised at my lord’s detaining the packet So long from the Marquis — I was — and ashed him the cause? He replied in these words :
* See Sir Charles montague’s letter to Lord of mond, Vol. III page 99, and his letter to Lord Mortimer, page 211.
C a You
i8
“You See it was left at my option to with hold it as long as I thought proper — Lord Ofmond was ih no condition for the first few weeks after his departure, to have his Sorrows aggravated — 1, therefore, in a letter to him, warned him not to be astonished at montague’s silence, as he was occupied in attending Lord Beaumont from place to place, who had lately had a Severe illness, and continual travelling was prescribed by his physicians as the only remedy to keep off another attack, which would in all probability be fatal — This reason, and Sir George sommerville’s death, I added, obliged him to postpone his marriage; and that he had commissioned me, in his stead, to become his lordship’s correspondent, as j could give him better information respecting Julia. I told him that louisa had been indisposed, and that Julia had been with her at Lady arne’s, to whose house she had been carried on her uncle’s decease.
“Soon after my writing in this manner, Pemberton returned from Hampshire, and, by his account of what passed at sommerville house, I plainly discovered the whole mischievous plot, and then kept Sir
charles’s
  ig
charles’s packet with a motive of showing it to Lord Clermont, who was every day expected to arrive in this kingdom. I could not properly stir in the affair, having no connedlion, and very little acquaintance with Lady louisa. To have written Montague all that Pemberton related to me of lady sommerville’s calumny might not have answered— — was liable, I found, to be misted in a cafe where he was So nice — Lady Sommerville would, on his application to her, be artful enough to make things worse — and, if he addressed louisa on the Subject, it was natural to suppose she would bid him never See her more. I therefore remained quiet, hoping Clermont would manage matters in Such a way, as to punish Lady Sommerville, and to facilitate his sister’s and montague’s happiness.
I was at length wearied with waiting — I resolved to Send osmond his packet, and the particulars I had gathered of the story; apprehending at the Same time, that he would gladly catch at the plea of Serving his friend to come over to England. I was about to execute this intention, when you most fortunately gave me the perusal of
C 3 louisa’s
30 M AS (LU E R A D E S; or,
louisa’s letters. I dropped my purpose, and impatiently looked for Mr. norton’s return to windsor, who, I Sound, was as proper a person to engage in the business, as any I could have wished for.”
Mr. Norton and my Lord Spent great part of last night in consulting on the most probable means to recover Sir Charles from his error. Mortimer communicated to him every light he could give. Fie laid before him montague’s letters — louisa sydney’s to you — and Mr. melmoth’s farewell one to her. He repeated to him the conversations my brother had held with Lady some merville; and ventured to hint a suspicion of her being attached herself to Sir Charles. Mr. Norton told my Lord, that it was his resolution to Set off in the morning for sommerville honse, and collect all the circumstances he could from the Lady of that mansion concerning the intrigue that she declares existed between Melmoth and Louisa. From thence he will go to melmoth’s, and desire in Lord (clermont’s name, to have fatisfadsion for the insolence that Lady Sommervillc accuses him of being guilty of towards his sister. If he denies
J
V
\
WHAT Y O U W I L L, 31
nies the' imputation, he will confront him with Lady Sommerville, and Settle the matter, he trusts, happily : if he dares to coincide in her infamous tale, he must either give incontrovertible proofs of the truth of it, or answerfor the blemish cast on louisa’s honour with his life., From this plan you will readily suppose that Mr. Norton means to put himself in the way of much danger, and of course that it is absolutely necessary our friend should not have a distant suspi cion of what passes, till the whole affair is finished. — Mr. Norton left windsor early this morning, and has carried with him your letters; but, at my lord’s desire, he will make no use of them, till he can be informed whedier he has your leave to do
So.
John waits for his dispatches — you must not detain him long, my dear Julia, as your answer is material in the grand businefs that the excellent Mr. Norton is engaged in, and as I am impatient to know that you are not angry with me for the measure I have taken, — Farewell, my amiable girl. Believe me always
Yours affectionately,
Caroline Mortimer.
C 4 %9
f
.0
32 MASQ.UERA0ES5 OR,
TV Lads Mortimer
wdlinghroolahhey.
I Am miserable, my dear Sister, at your Suffering the least disquiet in acting for me as you would for yourself — If the letters are to be of advantage to louisa, Surely I cannot have a wish but to employ them for the purpose! Rest Satisfied, then, in knowing, that, had I been on the Spot, I should have given them up immediately— — — to my Secrets being discovered — I care not — I am indifferent who is acquainted with my attachment to Lord osmond — and that is the only Secret you can allude to — Had I important ones that concerned myself alone, and Such as would pain me to reveal — I hope I should not hesitate to shcrifice them, to relieve an unfortunate character from the obloquy cast on it.
Your Servant will leave w’allingbrook*
Abbey
 ,
Abbey by to morrow’s dawn. — I have had no opportunity of reading Sir charles’s packet — I received it in the presenee ot louisa, and am glad that chance directed me not to open it till I had perused your letter — the sight of montague’s writing, would have affe<sted her -- will devote
4
the present moments to iu
% % % % Ak ^
^
A
Unmerciful Lady Sommerville I — Ah my God, is it in nature for a woman to own Such principles! I compassionate Sir Charles extremely — his faults proceeded from too great diffidence of himfdf, and over much desicacy in avoiding, the sight of a mistress’ whom' he thought he was; hateful to. — We cannot entertain a doubt of his affe(stion for louisa — and from hence: I avow myself his advocate — a strenuous one he shall find me, when occasion ripens for it.
But, my dear Lady Mortimer, 1 an terrified about Mr. Norton I — — If a rene
5» contr
34
centre ensues, and his life becomes the victim of perpetrated iniquity, how dread iiil will it be— — — ashst me! — - — I tremble at the rencontre I — Ah, may I
never hear of another!
Farewell, my much loved friend, — .......my
dearest sister! Each day adds new lustre to Lord mortimer’s character— — is continually engaged in Some Scheme to benefit his fellow-creatures — How happy are you! — That you may be long So in each other, is the ardent prayer of
'Your

f
^0 Lord Mortimer.’
I
«
Petenfiefd.
YOU are no doubt, my Lord, very
impatient to receive a letter from me — I am equally So, to convince your, Lordship, that I have not been inaistive.in the measures I had the honour of consult ‘ ing you upon before I left Wind for.'; Your friendship, my Lord, for Lady Louisa Sydney, which yoju Say she’^has a right to from her oppressed 'stated -- '■mine also for her, which proceeds from many other motives, make her cause an interest ing one to both — and to reestablish het good name is our mutual wish.
On my entering sommerville house, T ' was shown into an apartment that wa full of company. Lady Sommerville received me very graciously, arid pressed mefopass' ' the evening there. I complied, and waited with eagerness till she was alone. As Soon" ‘ as that happened, 1 affected a surprise at
C 6 louisa’s
• .«
f

I
louisa’s absence. This brought on the
recapitulation I sought for; and she by no means Spared her dear lamented Sir georges niece. I dwelled on the part of her history relating to Melmoth.
For heaven’s Sake, ” cried I, “is it possible that I could have been So exceedingly mistaken in this girl’s morals! — From any lips but yours. Lady Sommerville, it ■would cost me some pains to acquire faith enough to credit what I have heard — But prithee give me an instance of her disso^ iuteness 1”
“Pshaw !” replied she, “were I to mention the many that I have it in my power to recite, you would be heartily tired of the disgusting Subject— — one word, she is abandoned !”
“And was it Mr Melmoth who Seduced her demanded I.
It is difficult to Say which party was Seduced, ” answered she however, I
am charitable enough to hope, that she might be innocent now, but for the artifices he used to corrupt her.”
In this way she continued to Speak the
remainder
  37
remainder of the time we were together. On my getting up to depart, she apologised for not offering me a bed in her house 5, but flattered herself I would excuse it — the: world was cenjoriotisy and it behoved her (who was a very young woman to om with even more discretion thaw females of virtue tijiially praflifi. I thanked her, and replied, that, foreseeing her delicate Scruples,, I had ordered an apartment at this inn for the night. She insisted on my breakfasting with her the next morning.. I assented,, and took my leave.
When I attended her invitation, she of her own accord renewed the topic we had been upon the preceding evening..
“I hope, Mr. Norton' Said she,. you are now instructed to be upon your guard against the dissimulation which the bad part of my Sex can assume when they please. Under the feigned blush of modesty, you see they conceal brutal inclinations. I have suspefted, since you left me, that you were ensnared by Lady louisa’s wiles — Surely you no longer love her rif

«
t
38   PR,
% • •
“It is impossible, Madam, *' cried I, “to love the object we have ceased to respect— — a discovery as yours would cure the strongest passion that ever inhabited a mortal bosom !"
“lam glad to hear you Speak So Sensibly, ” returned she; “and now I will reveal an instance of her ignominy.”
One morning I left my bed earlier than common, and, going through a passage contiguous to Lady louisa’s apartment, I Saw a man coming out of it, whom I diredly knew to be Mr. Melmoth, He retired back on feeing me, thinking he had escaped my notice. I was a good deal stuttered, and hastily returned to my dreffing room. My woman was alarmed at the paleness of my countenance, and inquired the cause of it — I thoughtlessly told her. “Oh, my Lady, ” she exclaimed, “there is nothing extraordinary in that — you may See him every morning, at the Same hour, leave Lady louisa’s bedchamber, if your Ladyship will get up time enough for it.” I desired her to go in, and Search every corner of Lady Loui
fa’s
s
 9
fa’s apartments — to Say she Saw him enter them, and would not leave the place without beholding him. I charged her, when Mr. Melmoth appeared, to tell him that she was shocked at Such Scandalous proceedings, and determined, if ever he came near the house again, to make me acquainted with the whole. Walker obeyed my orders very faithfully. Mr. mel fiioth lay concealed, she suspedled, in an unfrequented closet. Lady louisa and; hef vile French woman were clamorous at.
r
her intrusion — they would not consent to her approaching The closet— — luckily she proved too strong for both, and, rushing by them, forced it open, just as Mr, Melmoth was endeavouring to make his t way out through a window. Perceiving that he was known, he thought it needless to risk his life by So precipitate a retreat, and imagined a bribe might answer his = purpose much better — He offered Walker twenty guineas, which she refused; but;; louisa and Clairon, (who were metamorphosed from furies into Niobes,) that, she should be more tender of their reputa'
■ tions

40
tions than they were themselves, in preventing Mr. Melmoth from being caught again in Such a place — and that her secresy on the past shameful Scene might be depended on, provided they held no further communication with him. Many gratifications were pressed upon her by all parties — She would accept of none — and, after feeing Mr. Melmoth out of the house, she returned to tell me the success of her embassy.
I had many conflicts whether or not I .should inform Sir George of what had happened; but the apprehension of losing him, from the effect Such a horrid affair must produce on his weak frame,, kept me silent.
Lady Louisa, on being restricted from? any intercourse with Mr. Melmoth, grew wonderfully dejected — I found that she used means to recall him but he, judging, the enterprise would be of danger to him,, and, 1 believe,, glad to the Soul of an excuse to forsake her, disregarded her appointments — She almost pined to dieath — Lady Arne carried her to Southampton — She Saw
Sir Charles Montague — she inveigled him
%
WILL. 41
by her apparent modesty to make love to her” -- -- -- 1 interrupted her.
— And to allow him favours also! — oh abominable !”
“1 cannot Say for a fast, Mr. Norton,
that she has been his mistress 1 had no
testimony of it — but there was time and opportunity for it enough.”
Your Lordship will take notice how difficult it is for a false narrator to preserve
consistency -- the night before, Lady
Sommerville had, in the beginning of our conversation, absolutely pronounced louisa
guilty with Montague -- -- Perhaps, after I
was gone, she recollected the intimacy that had Subsisted between Sir Charles and me, and supposed the matter would be talked over by us both when we met. However, this resse<stion did not occur to me then.
“You told me last night. Madam, ” — What I now repeat. Sir, that I actually do imagine she was as compliant to Sir charles’s wishes, as she was to Mr. mel moth’s, though I have not as good authority for it. The reason that Sir Charles gave my husband for avoiding the marriage broke his heart.”
'“Pray
42 MAS (LU E R A D E S or,
I
“Pray let me know it. Madam !’*
“Indeed, 1 am not exactly acquainted with it. — Sir George was too ill to thinl of showing me the letter, or ashing opinion — which he never failed doing be fore, on the most trifling occasion. — Poo Sir George was very partial to me — he ha( : a better notion of my judgement than i deserved !”
I am afraid, my Lord, that I shall fusse in your lordship’s idea, from the con session I am going to mshe — but, notwithstanding the proofs I Saw 'and heard o: Lady sommerville’s treacherousness, I hac So much fallibility about me, as to be lef fixed in my belief of louisa’s innocence — The mention she made of Melmoth’ having been detedfed in her apartments wore, from her method of telling it, i plausible appearance— — manner Seem ed artless — and what staggered me mon; than all, was, her knowing that Mr. Mef moth lived at no great distance from Some merville house — that I was familiar wit! him, and had it at my option to interrogau him concerning the affair. — She acknowledged to Lord Pemberton that she hac
burn
  43
t
burnt Sir charles’s letter — to me, that she had never Seen it — .how was that to be reconciled? — Why, my weak imagination Settled it thus — that she might not have chosen to give an instance to his Lordship of louisa’s criminality with Melmoth, lest he should have arraigned her for concealing the matter from Sir George; and she therefore held it more eligible to rest the charge against her honour on montague’s letter — she owned to me the truth, as to a person who was of little consequence, and whose good opinion it was not material for her to conciliate — I thought her undisguised in Saying she had nq other ground than Supposition for louisa’s having been infamous with Sir Charles, which originated from a convidtiqn of her having lost her virtue to Mr. Melmoth — I trembled at the poshbility that our conjedlures of Lady
Sommervillc were mistaken ones -- -- and that
an honest motive might have stimu
o
lated her writing to Montague, to prevent his marrying nothing better than a prostitute.
There are moments, my Lord, when the mind is liable to imbeciility — mine was in that'state just then — what I have written
entered
44   or,
entered it at the time, and overwhelms it now with confusion, for having given at mishon to ideas So disparaging to a woma who is “as chaste as unsunn’d Snow.”
“Does Mrs. Walker live with yo still. Madam ?”
Yes, she does -- She is a woman (
Such principle — Such benevolence — and, i short, So excellent a creature, that I woul not part with her for worlds.”
When I left sommerville house, I w
really in a perplexed Situation --
louisa, thought I, is thus lost, why gh myself further trouble about her SI deserves to feel every punishment in list — But yet, why could I not have hear this relation last night ^ 1 begged oi
proof of Lady louisa’s profligateness lady Sommerville answered me in genen that she had it in her power to give Sever — This morning she waited not to be aga alked — she unfolded to me a horrible ane dote that showed her in a damn’d ligl Might not she and Mrs. Walker have co trived the story between them? No dou of it! — I will go through the matter, ai either clear injured innocence, or expc an artful girl habituated to vice.
I we
  4$
I went to Mr. melmoth’s house — I owned him alone. Never did I behold Lich a change in a human appearance! * le looked the Spectre of the man I once : new by his name— — countenance wore pallid hue — a difficulty of respiration nolested him; a frequent hedlic cough presented his conversing with ease.
You See in me, Norton, ” cried he, fterour Salutations were over, “the cured effects of a libertine life. I am making L rapid progress out of a world, whose )leasures I valued far too highly; and I save this restedtion for my chastisement, hat, was I to begin the career of life igain, with the knowledge I now have, I would prefer the state of a handicraftsman : o that of any other which might throw me into the vicious way I have trod. I pursued the phantom Pleasure— — every shape she assumed 1 pursued -- but never overtook
her!”
1 expressed my concern at finding him So much indisposed; and told him, there was, perhaps, leisure enough for him to commence a new road, which would assuredly bring him to happiness.
Ina

46. MAS QUER AD E Sj or,
“In another world you must mean, Norton, ” replied he: “my thread is just Spun out — I have neither time nor Spirits to make further trials here.”
“I am Sorry, Melmoth, ” cried I, “for the business I am obliged to enter upon — which I Sincerely wish may not lay me under the necessity of cutting that thread in a few hours — or add to your present horror by charging your conscience with my death!”
He looked amazed — “What do you mean, Mr. Norton“
“Lady louisa sydney’s character has been basely aspersed. Lady sommer ville gives out that you Seduced her — she propagates things of her that I am convinced are salse” — -- -- -- -
“Aye, falser than hell! if they tend to what you have already Said. — You have no doubts of my courage, Mr. Norton — in your presence it has been tried — yet let me assure you, that, in this cause, no fighting shall ensue — louisa Sydney — the cruel. louisa! I have always found a paragon of virtue; and, was all the universe combined ih depreciating her chastity, 1 would still
believe
  47
y
dieve it inviolate -- -- But give me the
irticulars alleged against her ingenu issy.”
1 did So, He attended with great cool ffs to me, and, when I had finished, “plied,
“You have been the reciprocal friend
f Lady louisa and me — at least I ever
sought So! — You may remember how
vehemently I regretted the loss of her —
he was right in reserving herself for a
better man. — Dissipated, rakish, as I have
een, I. cannot tax my conscience with a
ngle adl of dishonour towards any one;
nd should Scarcely begin by using the
ightest means 40 prevent her union with
he man of her choice — much further from
ny principles would it be to cast a blemish
in her reputation. Lady Sommerville
iiould not have been So darino; in her all • • ^
did she not think that I was gone abroad, and that you would have no opportunity of clearing the matter. I took eave of her and the rest of my neighbours ast week, with an intent to quit England. Nhen I arrived at Dover, I was taken ex: remely ill, and, had I embarked, must
'have
✓
48
have expired before I could reach Calais. I remained at Dover a few days, and then, finding myself better, and thinking that the little time I had to live, would be Spent more comfortably at my own dwelling, than in travelling under innumerable disadvantages through a foreign country, I changed my purpose, and Set out on my return home, which I reached last night. — Lady Sommerville. Sir, has been ever envious of Louisa— — detests her for being much handsomer, more accomplished, and better descended than herself” - — — —
“She loves Sir Charles, I dare say, ” exclaimed I; “and is weak enough to imagine she may Supplant Lady louisa.”
“Nothing So probable, ” returned Mel? moth; “and a letter I will show you, must rivet your conjecture. I received it from Lady Sommerville, Soon after Lady lou isa*s arrival from Southampton, ”
He went out,, and immediately came back with the following lines in his hand, which he presented to me.
Ti

V
ff? George Melmoth, e/q.
Is it possible that you can quietly yield louisa Sydney to Sir Charles Montague? If you can, I must think you never loved
ber. — — For shame, Melmoth! -- -- Ressedt
what transports you felt when you expected to call her yours — resied what transports await him, who, without your interference, will stiortly become her envied bridegroom. Was I you, my pashon should urge me to do Something to interrupt his felicity. You are but lately discarded, and it is out of, the question to suppose another mistress already possesses your heart. — Fighting is
not the method I would take -- no, that
can never answer your purpose— — me encouragement, by Saying you will follow ray advice, and I will strike out a glorious plan that shall ensure her yours. I think you deserving of her, and wish you happy, Farewell!
M. Somjmerville.
yol. IV D I
I
50 MAS Q, U E R A D E S; or,
I begged to know what was his answer to this curious Scroll?
‘‘ None, ’’ he replied; I held her in too contemptible a light to make any; and her suspedling me to be a villain, should have been properly chastised, but for her Sex, which Screened her from my resentment“
“am glad, my dear Melmoth, ” cried I, “that you did not destroy this letter — * it may be of essential service to louisa, whom I am Sure you are So generous as to desire to See happy with Montague !”
Emaciated -- -- dispirited as I am, ’*
answered he, barbarous as she has been, Mr. Norton — I still love her— — therefore cannot desire to behold her happiness with
another — to hear of it 1 do- -- -- -- --
come, my heart is on the wing to repair the injuries she has received — What is to be done ?”
‘‘ Accompany me to Sommerville house, and there confront the diabolical author of those injuries.”
“With all my Soul — your chaise waits — let us lose no time.”
We got into it, and drove to Sommer
ville
>
/
✓
YOU WILL. st
ville house. lady sommerville, I believe, ’ did not expect nie — however, she ran out with great pleasure to meet me in the hall — but what pen can adequately describe the change her countenance underwent at Seeing Melmoth follow me! She trembled, and was ready to saint — she turned from us to go into a parlour — we pursued her steps unbidden, and, Seating ourselves near her, observed the transition of her passions. After a while, she became more composed, and thought it her dernier rejfort to brave us by effrontery.
“Well, Mr. Melmoth, ” Said she, “I will confess that I was a good deal shocked at Seeing you So unexpectedly — I am afraid you have been much worse since you left Hampshire. — You are Surprisingly altered within a few days. — My Spirits are weak — and no wonder after going through Such affliction!! — least alarm throws me into a pitiable condition.”
“For the love of Heaven, Madam, ” exclaimed he, “let us have none of this cursed hypocrisy! — Your terror of being detected in malicious falsehood has reduced you to this condition — not concern for my
health.” Da ‘‘ You
55
“You astonish me, Sir, by your brutality! — What terror can I possibly have? — what falsehood do you Speak osi” ’
“Are you not afraid that your perfidy will be unravelled? — louisa sydney! — ^ at that name you must shudder.’’
“I Scorn your words. Sir! — Never presume to enter this house again!” — and she hastened towards the door. He prevented her retiring, and led her back to her place.
“Not So, my excellent Lady sommerville! — Come, repeat to me what you have done to Mr. Norton — — repeat that Lady louisa is destitute of virtue — that I Seduced her!”
“I never Said you Seduced her — the charge is false — she Seduced you — I have neither inclination nor leisure to trouble myself with either her or your affairs un
hand me. Sir!”
“But why not indulge me with a repetition of the marvellous incidents that have ■ entertained So many from your lips? — Still silent! — nay, this rage Suffices nothing. — Well then, Norton, I call on you, since Lady Sommerville is dumb on the Sudden, to tell every Syllable she has uttered against
the
y.
  55
the honour of Lidy louisa Sydney — By heaven and earth. Madam, you shall not stir!” and throwing his arm round her Wai st, he held her on her Seat — he sixed his eyes with sternness on her face, and continued to do So during the whole narration that I gave, exactly in the way she had delivered it to me. When I ended, he exclaimed, “Now, Lady Sommerville, I conjure yon, by the presence of that God to whoni you must render a stridl account at the last dreadful day, to declare whether there is a word of truth in all this?’*
“It is all truth!” replied she.
“Ha! — perjury you add to your other crimes. Madam, do you? — Have a care! — Our legiilature has provided a Severe punishment for that Sort of wickedness — it may shock your delicacy even to hear it named, and will cause you to repent more than once of your evil conduct, since the apprehension of hereafter has no effect on you — depend I will put the law in force.” “I admire your assurance, Sir, in talking So religiousiy, who have ever turned your back upon that God you Solemnly adjure me by !- — I have always observed his
D 3 com
i
\
54
commandments — you never have — Who is most likely to be accused of perjury — I, in declaring your criminality with louisa Sydney — or you, in denying it with a thousand oaths
“Under a mass of sanctity. Madam, you conceal vices, that, libertine as I have been (remember I am no longer one), I would not have committed to gain my heart’s dearest treasure— — your own writing, and let it make you blush with shame, with remorse.” — She attempted to tear it;, but I refeued it from her fury — “Well, ” Said she, “.and what is there in that writing to Speak against me — I endeavoured to destroy it, that innocent words might not be perverted to a mischievous sense— — thought better of you than you deserved — had you chosen it — I would have
argued with Lady louisa” -
“No more incongruity. Lady sommerville, ” cried I; “docs your writing in Such a style to Melmoth correspond with what you told me P If you believed him tired of her favours, how could you have ex pedied that he would make her his wife “I Supposed him a man of honour.”
“Had
  55
Had you known of his intimacy with your niece, would your letter have been worded in these terms V
“Certainly! because it was my plan to Seem ignorant to him, of what I was but too well informed !’^
“Then allow me to asse, if Lady louisa was So miserable at his desertion, why argue with her? Sure, after what had passed, she would have more than met him halfway !”
“Lady Louisa, Sir, appeared So well pleased with her new lover, that 1 imagined it would not be her choice to part with him for her former one — 1 judged it proper to hinder the consequences that 1 foresaw from Sir charles’s afsiduity, and thought I acted the christian’s part, in attempting to get her married to the man with whom she had held a criminal commerce; and, to Say the truth, Sir Charles Montague merited a better fate, than to marry Mr. mel moth’s cast-off mistress I— — have you both. Gentlemen, determined against all I Say, is hard! — You are resolved to make out louisa innocent — you wish it, Mr. Norton — and Melmoth (from what motive
D 4 he
56
he could best tell) thinks it Safest to do So —; bu he knows in his Soul that she is
guilty v -- -1 am very ill-treated — yet I
may find a protector to avenge Such in sults
She burst into tears — her grief Softened me — again my doubts returned — I began to fancy I discovered confusion in melmoth’s face — I walked backwards and forwards in great agitation — Melmoth followed me.
^ “I See, Mr. Norton, that this vile woman’s artifice Succeeds; but, as I hope to be forgiven in my last moments — I am innocent of her accusation !’*
“Then, Mr. Melmoth, ” exclaimed she, “you will die as you have lived, under the wrath of God! — To convince you, Mr. Norton, once for all, that you have not been deceived. Walker shall appear — her evidence will Satisfy you.”
pleasure Sparkled in her eyes from the instant that she suspected me of giving credit to what she affirmed — she tripped to the bell with an assured air, and ringing it three distindl times, in as many Seconds Mrs. Walker entered.
y I want
%
t
  5/
“I want you, my good Walker, ” Sakl the Lady, “to attest the truth of what I have been telling Mr. Norton concerning Lady louisa Sydney — You know her to be an infamous creature.”
“You are rather hasty, Madam — you anticipate Mrs. Walker, ” cried Melmoth,
“and instrudt her in what she should say — I fear she is already too well prepared! — Mr. Norton, to you it belongs to question this woman.”
“I must beg of you, Mrs. Walker, *^, Said I, “to let me know all that you are acquainted with respecting Lady louisa Sydney — have the rectitude of a Christian before your eyes, and then Speak fairly.”
“Aye, Walker, ” exclaimed Lady some merville; ‘‘ Speak openly all you have to allege against her, and be apprehensive of nothing !”
“Your Ladyship may depend, ” returned the woman, “that no threats— — low minded Sear of consequences to myself, accruing from what I utter, shall stimulate me to hide anything of her that it is in my power to disclofe.”
‘‘ That is right, my worthy creature !-~
L 5 * My
#
4
58 MA SQ, UERADES; or.
My protection you shall always have, let these gentlemen do what they will.”
“Is not this downright bribery ?” demanded Melmoth? “Am I to be held dishonourable, Mr. Norton, from the evidence of a mercenary wretch ?”
Mrs. Walker affected not to hear him.
“And now, my Lady, ” cried she, I
shall obey Mr. Norton: -- -- Were I, Sir,
at the great tribunal, to which we must all come, 1 could not have my. heart more thoroughly and open, than it shall be now to you.
“If modesty— — virtue daily practiced, in the fullest extent of the word, deserve the epithet of infamous — I certainly do not know a more infamous creature in the world than Lady Louisa Sydney— — they deserve a contrary phrase, it is assuredly hers! The most discreet conduct, from the moment I first Saw her, to the last of her residence in this house, guided all her actions — she never gave the siightest room for the breath of stander to approach her — unjust calumny there is no shield can protect us from !”
“Impertinent wretch !” vociferated her Lady: “do you dare thus change your
pore after“
“
w.
✓
«
  5^
after the costly presents 1 have received not to alter it — Alas, Madam, yes !• — I waited for a favourable moment to unravel to Sir Charles Montague the history that your Ladyship obliged me to bear a part in — I undertook to help your stratagem, lest you should employ a low, venal creature, who, influenced by the promises you, made, might under your direction have effedlually destroyed the character of one of the Sweetest Ladies breathing — To explain it to Sir Charles montague’s, or Lady louisa^a friends, will do as well.
“My Lady, gentlemen, before Sir george’s death, often hinted to me her dislike to his niece. She Said, the good education my father (who was a clergymen) gave me, placed me above the standard of Servants; and as she believed me faithful,
I should have her confidence. She told me, that Sir Charles Montague was a man beloved by herself, and she would leave np arts untried to break his attachment to Lady louisa, mentioning, at the same time, that, was her husband underground, she had no doubt of securing him. About
D 6 three
%,
6o MAS LV E R A D £ S; or,
three months ago, she wrote to Sir Charles. Upon the receipt of her letter, he withdrew his addresses from Lady louii’a — the rea son he ascribed for it, will be Seen in this letter from him to Sir George *, which my Lady, the very morning he died, took from his waistcoat pocket in my presence'
'‘‘ ” Said she, “we must destroy
this paper — it will mar the Scheme I have in view of blasting louisa’s fame— — it ' — and afterwards do not fail to burn it — My first plot has been attended with double Success— — did not dare hope it would have So happily rid me of this old fright, as well as louisa of her charming lover — I have encouragement enough Surely to go on Scheming, till I attain the Summit I aim at!”
“The acquisition of this letter, gentle men, delighted me exceedingly, as it would be the best means of defeating my lady*s cruel purpose relative to Lady Louisa— — purpose she adopted with this motive, that none of her friends might receive or take notice of her, and of course she would not
• See Vc. III p, 113.
be
N
  6|
be in the way of Sir Charles, as explanations between them was what my Lady most dreaded. •,
“To encourage my good behaviour, as she called it, she gave me this bank bill of a hundred pounds, and this promissory note of a thousand, payable on Sir charles’s first visit as a lover. I give them both up to you, Mr. Norton, either to return them to my Lady this minute, or to. make any use of them that you think may be of advantage to Lady louisa.”
The hundred pounds, Mrs. Walker, ’* cried I, “we will restore to Lady sommer ville — the note I will keep for montague’s perusal,, and then Send it to the honourable person who drew it, to dispose of as she pleases — the letter I will preserve to show Lady Arne, and Lord Pemberton: the former was told, it was di<51: ated in far different terms; the other, that her own pretty fingers had committed it to the ssames.” “Aye, Sir, So they were! -- My Lady mentioned to me, that Lord pemberton’s fine penetrating eyes had very nearly made her betray herself. — Last night, whilst I undressed her, she fabricated the story that
• was
/.
e
62 MAS que R A D E S; or,
was related of you this morning, Mr. mei moth : it was frequently recited to me, that I might (in case I was called for) corroborate what she Said, and add other things that she instruded me to deliver. Her invention was not ready enough last night for Mr. norton’s question; and, that you might have an linjiance of Lady louifd.s lu centioufnefs before you left Hampshire, Sir, you were invited to breakfast. Often did my Lady rejoice, that fortune had befriended her in removing Mr. Melmoth out of the kingdom; and exulted at the little probability there was of your deteding the imposition.
“I shall only add on this Subject, that Lady louisa is idolised by every Servant in the family — they all hold her So dear, as to undertake to Serve her in any way however dangerous. I had no opportunity of Speaking apart to Lord Pemberton or the Ladies, as I was continually in attendance on my Lady — besides, things were not ripe for a disclosure — I had not then the promissory note, which is the chief proof against her Ladyship.
And now, gentlemen, that I have exculpated
V
  6^
 the innocent, it is but justice to expose the guilty — My Lady is that very abandoned person you have heard her call her niece. During the last six months of Sir george’s life, she kept up a criminal commerce with Mr. Western, and has perhaps been enabled by a like behaviour of
her own to -- -- -- -- my Lady saints! — I am
Sorry for the part I am obliged to perform !”
We carried her into the air, and with the help of volatiles and drops she revived — but oh! what execrations did she not pour upon Mrs. Walker! She accused her of falsehood in what she dared to Say of Mr, Western; defied mankind to taint her fair name, and ran on unmercifully, till Mrs. Walker begged us to believe that she Spoke nothing but the fact, as Lady louisa’s woman, Clairon, had it at her option to tes tify. I told Lady Sommerville, it was nothing to me how she conduced herself — • that we were Satisfied of all we wanted to know. Melmoth interrupted me -- -- -- -
“No, Norton! I will learn more of the affair — she deserves the utmost disgrace, and to be mortified iiucf^e highest degree —
What
64  .
What does Clairon know of her, Mrs, Walker
“Stop, ’*^ cried I, ‘‘ we already are acquainted with enough to ruin this Lady in the opinion of every one — however, unless she consents this minute to give me an acknowledgment in writing that all she has Said of Lady Louisa, as well as what she wrote to Sir Charles, is false, we will heat what Mrs. Walker is enabled to reveal, and make it as public as the air.’*
I am rendered desperate, and care not what I do, ” exclaimed Lady Sommerville — Yes, I will write what you please — I am tormented to death !^ — Get out of my
sight, you mean -- ingrateful hireling !”
turning to Mrs. Walker, who waited not for a repetition of the command. “It is hard, Mr. Norton, to be aspersed unjustly S’ ‘
You did not consider that. Madam, ” Said Melmoth, “when you So unfeelingly injured louisa! Have you for a truth, my Lady, always observed the commandments of God? — Who now may be convicted of
perjury — you or I Poor Melmoth! —
you are to die, i^^^you have lived, under
the
%
1
  65
the wrath of God — is it not So, Madam? — ■ Sweet louisa! how have you been reviled !”
“Would to heaven you and louisa were both dead at my feet this instant! — My reputation is gone! — Western 1 — his false I assure you — let me implore you not to believe it!”
Implements of writing were called for, and I made her give a Solemn revocation with her own pen of all that had been Spread to the dishonour of louisa — it is Sufficiently Satisfadlory, I think, to open montague’s eyes, and convince him of his error.
We were as glad to take leave of Lady Sommerville as she could have been to See us out of her house — Before we left it, we begged to Speak with Mrs. Walker — we thanked her for her generosity to Lady louisa, and assured her she should lose nothing by it; then, putting a trisie into her hand, entreated her to accept of it as an earnest of our acknowledgment, which we would make in a proper manner as Soon as the business we were engaged in was Settled, and we could find out a way of Serving her to her wishes.
“You
/
%
66 MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
“You are to blame, gentlemen, ” cried she, “in Supposing my behaviour generous towards Lady louisa — I have done no more than my duty; and must beg of you to take back your present. On this occasion it looks like a gratification, and that I cannot think of receiving for performing only the upright, just part.”,
We urged her with warmth not to refuse us; but she was resolute“
“am going immediately from this house, ” Said she *, “I am no longer Safe in
it! -- -- If I can be of further use to you,
gentlemen, I shall be found at my brother’s, who is a mercer in bond street -- With him * I shall remain, till I can get into a lady’s Service Suitable to mv inclinations. The steward has promised to remit me the wages due from Lady Sommerville, whom it agrees neither with my Security nor desire tc see again.”
She curtsied modestly, wished us all happiness, and retired. Melmoth and I goi into the chaise, and went back to his house, from whence he would not let me depari till this morning.
He is, in Spite of his bad health, still ar
enter
  67
entertaining companion - — He avoided as much as possible to mention Lady louisa, or Sir Charles, after our return from some merville house. -- The topic is unpleasing; for he yet loves her, I am Sure. He told me, that his physicians recommend to him to drink the waters at Barege, and to go over as Soon as possible for that purpose.
“I was on my rout to Bigorre, ” cried he,
when I So luckily (I must ever think it, however painful the cause) was prevented from proceeding — You See, Norton, L am already reduced to the last state the Faculty are ignorant what further to do with me - — and wissi to Send me from them to die in a strange country.”
“You are despondency itself!” replied, I: “those waters are very famous: pursue, Melmoth, their advice without loss of time, and if it can be of comfort to you to have the Society of an old friend, depend that I will be with you Soon after you are fixed in Bigorre. I would accompany you thither; but you know how I am circumstanced, and with others bufiness, and my own, it may be a month or six weeks before I can leave England — too long a delay for you
to
68 M ASQ^UERAD ES; OR,
to make certainly. — Yes, you shall try the waters of Barege — I will recommend you to the friendship of a very respectable family that lives near Bagniers, whom you must like extremely — If that place ansvvers not, let us then see what Naples can do. — Entertain no doubt of your recovery — the Almighty has thought fit to rouse your rea son by showing you, in a near light, the awful image of death — you have thrown off your bad habits — and with returning health will assume quite opposite ones — Away with fear! — think only of getting health — you and I shall yet experience a happy old age !”
Oh, Norton !” cried he, clasping my hand, “you renovate the Springs of expiring nature! And is it possible that you will come over to a poor miserable invalid! — But you always proved the only true friend I owned. — Had I been guided by you, I should now be in perfeist health, and blessed, perhaps, with louisa Sydney. — Of that no more — Some good has been produced " by my Suffering — I have had opportunity enough to look into rnyself, and to mend
my heart — Norton, 1 have Softened it — I
am
  6,
am no longer that haughty master my Servants used to find me — 1 can bear contradiction without being ready to take the person by the throat who presumed to oppose
me....adverfity is thc; only School on
earth for your proud, turbulent dispositions! — But, dear Norton, I can Scarcely think you in earnest — What, leave England, which you are but just returned to — leave
your friends !” -- -- -
Upon my Soul, I will go to you as Soon as I have it in my power — England can have few charms for one situated as 1
The poor man was much pleased, and determined to Set out in two days. This evening I shall begin my journey towards Wales — may I be as successful in that tour, as I have been in this! Your Lordship, I am Sure, will be Satisfied at my not calling bn you — I should lose time by it — and when we next meet, it will afford me double pleasure to tell you that our friends are restored to felicity.
I am much indebted to Lady Julia Herbert for her benevolent permission to make the letters Subservient to any purpose I
please —
70 MAS CLUE RAD ES; or,
please — (Such were the words your lord ship used) : they will tend to one essential point, — that of convincing Sir Charles he is most tenderly beloved by his fair mistress ' — I will let your Lordship know as Soon as possible the result of my visit to him; and am with great resped, my Lord,
Your lordship’s most obedient
And faithful Servant,
William Norton,
To Lady Julia Herbert.
%
(Enclojing the preceding letter)
I
jvindfor.
I ANTICIPATE your joy, my dearest Julia
at discovering that louisa is cleared from the abominable calumny of Lady Sommer
yille
  yr
ville — that the vile creature’s guilt is detected — and that she now stands with all justice in the debased light she placed your innocent friend! — But I forget whom I am writing to! “No, ” you cry; “I cannot rejoice
at the latter part of your intelligence ■ — I am rather Sorry for it.” Well, my dear, be Sorry; — but allow me to be very glad — at least that her wickedness is exposed — Oh, that Melmoth had persisted in his inquiry after those circumstances against her that Walker and Clairon could prove! — I would show her no mercy — Do, Julia, as you regard my happiness, question Clairon about them, and let not a Syllable escape your pen when you write to me — What a fine column in the Morning post will they take up! Mr. B — will be made glorious ly happy in Such an opportunity of obliging the public — and that he may be happy in the extreme, take care to charge her in the recital to leave out no Scandalous — nay, indelicate trait. Should Clairon think the account too bad for you to hear — or me to read, let her write it herself, and add refs it to him where his paper directs— — that Lady Sommerville is held up to mankind
in
I
52 M A S (LU E R A D E S; o R,
in the colour she deserves, I yield the point of being made acquainted with the incidents of her shame.
My opinion is, that louisa had best remain in her present state of ignorance till we get Mr. norton’s next letter, which shall be dispatched to you as Soon as we have read it.
Surely, my dear Julia, the happy way your friend is in, of having her ill fortune reversed, must make you cheerful! Let this example urge you to hope as great a change in yours -- -- -- --
Adieu! I write in haste, and can only say that I am
/
Your affectionate
Caroline Mortimer,
(
\
}
«
%
I
V
J

t
Tt) Lady Mortimer;
walunghrcolmhey.
I Am indeed, my dear Sister, rejoiced at the issue of Mr. norton’s friendly journey into Hampshire! May the one he is now undertaking be (as he Says) attended with equal fuccess! Depend that 1 shall be as silent as the grave, concerning what you So kindly and expeditiousiy impart, till I receive your commands to Speak — but I think you had best not keep louisa too long in the dark, lest a Sudden and unexpected sight of Skdiarles should hurry her ipirits more than you would like — It is not improbable but he may come to her as Sooa as he knows what Mr. Norton has to unfold.
Pardon me. Lady Mortimer, for refusing your request — I will put no questions to Clairon — Lady Sommerville is truly mortified — and, however culpable, it does not in my opinion, justify those in whose power she is for bearing too hard upon her — Mer
yol. IV. E cy
s
.^4  ,
€f is a godlike attribute — and Mr. Norton behaved with generosity — with delicacy, in Seeking to know no more of her Secrets chan were Sufficient in the meritorious cause iie engaged in, of defending oppressed virtue. ■- — Besides, may not the judicious forbearance of exalted, minds, lead her to draw a comparison between them and her own? — What a contrast will She find! — Might not cemorse follow — and then amendment? For pity’s Sake, my dear Sister, let her rest • — and think no more of her!
My Lord Arne has had a slight fit of the gout which detains us here; but, as he is on the recovery, we expect Soon to remove CO Southampton. He and his Lady have begged of me to complete a party quarree to Bath in November, a visit to which place my Lord judges necessary for his disordei — Without consulting Lady Pemberton, 1 have excused myself— — will now wait the refuk of Mr. norton’s explanation, and when Sir Charles and louisa are reconciled (if that ever happens) go back to Windsor,
I am Surprised at the daily change, that appears in her.. i may Safely pronounce fisc, should Montague never return, hei
fprmei
 ? 75
4
former health and chearfulness will. She never mentions him — and endeavours by a thousand ways to dissipate her thoughts. The harpsichord is a great enemy of his — * she draws me into play — and from the constant practice 1 have, you will find me improved, I fancy, when you hear me : Lord and Lady Arne are fond of music almost to a fault — it is the principal pleasure Louisa has — I have liked it better than ever, since I discovered how great a proficient in it Lord osraond is — since his flattering encouragement induced me to pursue that charming Science — everything then combines to make me pafs most of my time at Some instrument.
I wish to God, Caroline, the Duke of Westmoreland had been employed as I was last night — I Spent two hours in gaining instrudtion from that admirable work of a writer, whose name must in all ages do honour to his country — The fubjedtof my attention was the third volume of johnfon’s Rambler: in it I met with a paper marked No. 148, which (if anything in nature could) must have afftd; ed the tyrannical father.
£2. ^digu^
i..
^ ASQ, U ERADES; of.
Adieu, my amiable Sister — I have So little to entertain you with, that to write long letters would be a Sad tax on your lively ge
fiius — Commend me properly to your coterie, nd think me
Your affectionate
Julia Herblet^
r
/
To Lord Mortimer
Saturday Morning..
J Got; CO Carnarvon, my Lord, on Sunday night, after a very long and fatiguing journey. I wrote a note to Sir Charles Montague, telling him of my arrival in thi« country, and that I intended myself the pleasure of‘waiting on him the next day; and, leaving orders with the people of the unto Send it early in the, morning to El
yreliyu Castle, I went to bed When I
awoke.
WHAT iron WILL, fj
N.
I
awoke, my fellow delivered me an anfweir couched in the following words;
What can have brought my dear William into Carnarvonshire? Let the motive be what it may — I rejoice at it, as it gives me an o|>portunity of once more feeing you! But allow me to warn you, my good friend, to Say nothing to me of Lady louisa. Sydney — The papers have informed me of Sir George sommerville*'s death — I dread hearing that she is married — Ishave forfeited all title to her favour, and ought to be disinterested enough to wish her virtues were rewarded in the arms of Some deserving man — but I have not yet Sufficiently conquered this' proud, aspiring heart 1 I will be with you in a little while — observe the caution 1 give, and believe me,
Your faithful
Charles Montague.
I dressed in haste, went into a parlour, and was just about to breakfast, when a phaeton and four drove to my window, turned into
E 3 th'
I
\

the yard, and I heard Some voices say, “Sir Charles Montague!” I stew to the door, and Saw the very man descending from it. 1 need not rep relent to your Lordship the joy that must attend the meeting of too very particular friends, after Several months Separation.
Sir Charles desired to know by business in Wales? I Said, to See him — then inquired what business kept him remote from all his acquaintances, immured in the old castle of El welly n?
‘‘ Your question hurts me, Norton !’* cried he. “Do you not know that I have nothing of my fortune left S’*
“What, Montague! — how can that
be, and in possession of Elwellyn ?Methinks
an estate of six thousand a year is
not to be accounted nothing .... -- "He
looked confused.
‘‘ It is true, I have the use of the house to shelter my unhappy head from the in demency of the weather— — the estate is mortgaged for more than its value.”
“And how do you contrive to live, my dear Montague? — The sight of your land, trees and sails of water,, cannot Sustain nature,

*
WHAT YOU WILD 7^
lure, I presume— — you have brought yourself to exist on the dews of the earth! — It is lucky that you are sus ceptive of Such aliment! — but it is a monstrous change, from feasting on ortolans and quaffing claret and champaigno”
“Pshaw! what does it signify how I live t — You have not lost your old custom of pressing me to death with disagreeable interrogatories! — Say no more — I have Saved two hundred a year out of the wreck, and let that Suffice.’^
“Oh Lord, oh Lord! what an excellent: ceconomist you must be to make So Small a Sum go iuch lengths! A new phaeton highly finished — four beautiful bays — two fellows well mounted, well apparelled, whose countenances speak opulence, content, and chearfulnefs’^ -- -- --
“You are devilishly teasing, Norton f — Come, order your servants to convey your chaise and baggage to Elwellyn — now that I have you, you shall not leave me soon !’*
I got into his carriage, and he drove m‘e to the castle. — I have been here before, and well knew what a romantic place he
E 4 h ad
#
20 MASCLUER ADES; or,
had made choice of to indulge his melancholy in. The habitation is built in a Gothic style, very awful, very magnificent « — There are high hills that almost kiss the clouds, which form an amphitheatre from the back view of the house — hey arc covered with trees, that have been held in great veneration by Sir charles’s ancestors; So much So, as to have thought it a kind of Sacrilege to send an axe amongst them. They look to have been the haunts of Druids, and the residence of Hamadryads. A large body of water rushes from a stupendous height, which, from being frequently interrupted in its progress by a
number of rocks, forms a cascade more
/
noble than it is in the power of fancy to paint, and falls into a rapid river, that Serpentines for many miles through the
estate -- -- From the front of the castle
you command rich valleys, fine lakes, and distant buildings. The Situation of Elwellyn must be exquisite to a lovesick imagination. In this Solitude Sir Charles has poured out his Soft complaints, and found his passion fed by the Scenes around him.
I oh
if
0
V
✓
 Si
I obeyed his injundtion of not mentioning Lady louisa to him — yet I omitted no opportunity of rallying him on the motive he alleged,, for retiring to the romantic mountains of Carnarvonshire — Sometimes he would look vexed — at others, he could not retrain from laughing. But though he put the best face on to me,, it was perceptible enough that his mind was ill at ease. I plainly law that he often wished I should talk of louisa in Spite of his prohibition — I was determined not to be the first to ertter on the topic, to mortify him solis reserve,
After Supper last wednesday,. and after taking two thirds, of a Bottle of Burgundy,, he ventured, to alk where Lady louis was? ', • ■
I have not Seen, nor heard from, her since my arrival, ” was my answer.
Ah,, Norton, ’* cried he, “your evasion tells me all I am anxious to learn I — — She is manied i”
Not yet, I believe.” ' '
“Oh gracious Heaven! — then she is be shortly?’*
^ To Say the truths I am ignorant of it
E 5
i

• — But as you introduce the Stibjedl:, I will
sell you what is my views -- -- You must
know, Montague, that I have long loved Lady louisa — As I heard from your own iips of your attachment to her, I could not. in honour reveal my passion— — Soon after became an accepted lover — I retired from England till 1 could bring myself to behold your mutual happinest without emotion — with Such Sentiments alone, as friendship to both f you ought to possess,. I, now find that you have withdrawn your addresses — honour no longer interferes — I am freey certainly, to endeavour to obtain her heart!’’
Montague ctasped his hands, fixed them n the table, and rested bis head upon them.
“Now, ” eontinued I, I should not hesitate a minute about the matter, but that I hear she is infatuated to a Sellow., who, L fuspedl, proves himself very unworthy of herd He started from his position.
^ Oh Norton — dear Norton! that ia the cause of my misery — I Sondly thought jnyseif beloved — she constrained her heart to pretend fb — whiist’* -- -- -- --
^ Ak, — -- -- - — .* * -
t

/
she indeed affes^ a passion' for you } — It is strange! — She is an artless gir],,!, and I should Scarcely believe her capable of
dissembling! -- -- However, that her heapt:
was fixed at the very time on the worthlei&»
object I Speak of, is undoubted -- -- Lady
Julia Herbert has given me slime letters' from louisa, that demonstrate very fully' to what an unfortunate degree she lovei him.’*
Have you those letters “I brought them with me for the purl ' pose of consulting you upon them — to ask. your advice whether I had not best step) between the ungrateful wretch, who little: knows her value, and the mifguidedi Louisa— — he marries her, what an inesti mable jewel shall I lose! — Will you react the letters ?’*
“No, no— — not to revive the keei^i anguish r endured at discovering her falsehood !■ — She is yet too dear to me !• — heir image is ever before my eyes; it embitters my hours — and my cominuahwish is,, thac: Lhad. never beheld her — No, - Norton,. L dare not look on the proofs of £©■ mucte jgersidy -- to peruie her. own characters,,
whichi
$4
which were wont to make my heart leap with joy — now must distract me !’*
Well, 1 will not urge you — Then I fuppose, you judge it best for me to try to efface the impression my undeserving rival has made on her ?’*
“You apply to a very improper per son, on Such an occasion, to direct you
how to adt, Mr. Norton -- -- I begged you
not to name her to me.’*
Nay! recollect Montague, who began the conversation — Candour is what I boast of — I wished first to tell you of my
intentions.” -- -- - —
“But how can you possibly expect success?? have Sufficient facts of her loving another; it is no longer a Secret that Mr. Melmoth is her choice.”
“Aye, So I have heard. But that shall not prevent me from going to Lady louisa, and learning it from herself— — other evidence ought I to credit in Such a cafe — ■ Though every relation she had on earth were to found in my ears that Melmoth — that was beloved by her; nay, though I Saw letters signed with her own name,
, whkh asserted it, I would doubt all, till
her
A
 ; Sj*
dber own voice confirmed it. Relations may lie from Selfish motives, and letters may be forged!”
He Seemed agitated.
i
‘‘ Supposing you were i*eceived as ^ favoured lover — we will go So far as to suppose you were on the eve of marriage, and was told her inclinations were done violence to, that she hated you, and ido ^ iized another, how would you then al: ?’*
“You suppose, that I was told So by? herself
»
No, no — that a very intimate friend, ' one of respedlable chara^er, wrote to you to this effe<51;, out of friendship to each party.”
‘‘ Why then I would carrjr the letter to louisa, and entreat To know, honestly,
whether the contents were true -- -- -- -- It
would be doubly incumbent on me, at Such a crisis, to behave in that manner — » for, was the friend a false one. Such as we have marry instances of — and I a credulous blockhead to take fright at what he, or she wrote, how many wretched hours might I Wt occasion the innocent girl, whose Soul
S M A S CUE R A U E S f ori
♦ *
might in truth know no other felicity than what she received from me !”
“Norton, you Speak in a very harsh, manner! I am not accustomed to the epithets of credulous” ^ -- -- -- —
“How, my dear friend! — who thought
of you? I was Saying, vthat ajbould hein Such a case — — but this topic discomposes you, I will never enter on it more — we will Separate, the hour is late.’*
I got up with an air of calmnels, and rung the bell — he was Sadly disturbed, but. 1 knew how to manage the heart, and left him to brood over what had passed
After I was undressed, he entered my room — I found an excuse to detain my Servant, to hinder a further discussson on the: head we had been upon
“Norton, ” cried Montague, with rather a silly countenance, I come to beg a sight of the letters — I have not power to ’ resist them 1”
“Try, my dear Montague! — consider what ill consequences they must produce— — least take a day or two to fortify your
Spirits; perhaps, by that time, you may be
''' ■ ■ ' ld
%

WHAT Totr wnsl^ nf:
test eager to read them — and possibly may not desire it.’^
“Two days / — two centuries! — Nono, no, dear William, entrust them to my' hands -- I die with impatience!”
“The effects be on your own head !- — Was I to ast the proper part, I do not know but that I should refuse them to yoit ' — however, if they cost you the pangs I expect they will, your feelings, your re stedtions will not be enviable — take them and good night!”
He grasped the packet with trembling, hands, bowed to me; and darted out of the room.
I leave your Lordship to imagine how different were the operations of thosh Itetters^ from’ what he apprehended; and yet, I think, his mind must have endured a great deal at the rctrospedt of his past precipitate conduct. you'wili' be asbonished^. my Lord, to hear that I have had no conversation with him upon the Subject fincej but I have studioussy avoided it. In the first place, he destrvcs to be punished for the unhappiness he has given an amiable
girl : • in the next. Heave him time to pon
* %
MASQ, UERADES^5 ar,
der an the folly of his behaviour, to fe his error in a clear light. Should he still doubt louisa^s affection, I shall be provoked it must be owned; but, for her Sake, I will convince him of his absurdity, by producing the other papers in my post session. I will use the power while it remains with me, tq» make him Suffer. louisa^s readiness to pardon him on the first Gonceshon, cannot be questioned; and a temporary fuspense will give a higher relish to the joy he must experience on their meeting.
I arose early on Thursday morning, and took a long; ramble. I did not return till
O ^ -
. it was time to dress for dinner. I came home with a mock indisposition,, which was to prevent my being good Society. Luckily to help my designi, I Sound Lord Beaumont at the castle, who had arrived
an hour before 'me. He travelled all the
/
way from Bagshot to see his nephew, and to inquire into the trutn of the strange rumour So industrious/y propagated of Sir charles’s ruin, ' which, however, never reached his ears till about a fortnight ago
Montague had taken bo notice of his
i
 . %
Lordship, from the time that he gave up Lady louisa; and the poor old man, who was ignorant of his abode to the moment he was informed of it by the Same tongue that announced the destrndtion of his fortune, came very well fraught with chidings. I dare Say my Lady Mortimer will Soon guess that this intelligencer extraordinary was no other than Jack Ainstey, the celebrated Marplot of the age; but Where, or how he discovered Sir charles’s retreat, I cannot conjecture. Lord Beaumont and Montague had made up matters before I appeared, which was on a Summons to dinner. Sir Charles introduced me to mylord— — is very agreeable — his affability with young men takes off t hat awe w; hidi his reverend figure at first inspiies; and, without losing his respedt, he engages them to be unconstrained and happy m his company. He tells anecdotes of old times with Such life, describes his characters and. Scenes in So eloquent a manner, that, far from tiring, it is the greatest amusement in nature to listen to him. One thing he stridtly observes, I find, which is never to tell the same story twice. Montague treats
him
I
'\
^6 MAS CLUE RAD esj or,
him with more respect and attention tfeii the prime minister of France does his Monarch Lord beaumont’s behaviour to Sir Charles, is just what it ought to be — never too familia— — always friendly and easy — he Seldom Speaks but in a jesting way, which is full of humour, and highly entertaining:,
O
montague’s features betrayed perplexity and uncertainty — he looked frequently at me, as if to reproach me for my deceit — for my Severe Sentiments of him — and for avoiding him as I had done all the morning : however, at times he would Seeiri enraptured — laugh from his heart at Something Lord Beaumont or I might chance to Say — and then his countenance would be again overspread with conssidting doubts.
Lord Beaumont is by no means an enemy to Small hours : he refused to break up Sooner than two o’clock. When we took leave, I failed not to complain of the indilposition I had provided for my purpose.
Norton, ” cried Montague aside, will k incommode you, if I pafs half an hour
in your apartment
^ Ye
 . gi
>
Yes, my good friend; I am ill dil posed to enter upon business!”
He thought me unkind I am Sure; but I was indifferent as to that. We Separated — I ordered Gordon to be careful that Iwas not disturbed, and not to enter my chamber before I rung. I did not quit it till I knew that Lord Beaumont and Sir Charles were together. montague’s behaviour to me since has been very stiff — the title of Mr. was pundtually made to precede my name when he pronounced it; but his manner caused no alteration in mine tor

wards him. Some Gentlemen of Carnarvon came by invitation to dinner yesterday; they did not depart till late. Montague appeared to find very little fatilfac^^ tion in the mirth that every one else participated of. He pressed no further to Speak to me, and I affected not to See his chagria or distance.
This morning, at breakfast, my Lord hinted an intention of Spending three weeks at Elwellyti, and ashed Sir Charles if he had not engaged me to make Some stay with him? Montague replied, his wish was never to part with me;. and re
foiced
’ V
^2

jpiced that Ishad So good an inducement as his lordship’s company not to abandon Carnarvonshire in a hurry — when he was gone, he hoped charity would urge me to remain with him.
“Oh, ” Said Lord Beaumont, I am
determined that neither of you shall remain here without me. You must accompany me home, and I will find Some Sports to’ amuse you. I meditate inviting a Seledb party of agreeable younrg fellows to meet you: you shall be at liberty to do just what you please.”
I lamented my misfortune in being, obliged to quit Elwellyn in a few days but assured my Lord, that I would endeavour shortly to express my acknowledgments at his. ov/n house, for the honour he did me.
“Obliged to quit Elwellyn in a few days Mr. Norton
“I am So unlucky. Sir Charles.”
He cast his eyes on the ground, and was Silent. I Soon retired under the excuse of writing.
\
 . gj
m
Saturday Night,
After dinner, when the cloth was removed, the Servants withdrawn, and the bottle pushed about. Lord Beaumont desired he might be considered by Sir Charles and myself as a young companion of ours, who was in all our Secrets — who would join us in the diversions of a fox chase, a masquerade, a riot — : in short, any vagary that, wild, dissipated heads could think of entering into. “You look Surprised, ” added he — “Well, do not be afraid, lest age should forget its consequence in me, and I bring a ridicule on it. — But view me in the light I Speak of: throw aside all reserve, and let me know, Charles, what occasions this froideur in your manner towards Norton. I have heard you talk of him as the friend after osmond you most loved — — You are loth to tell me! — Come, Norton, though I have not as good,, right to your confidence as I have to this young man’s, there is an ingenuity about you that convinces me you will not let me alk yon the question in vaind’
£ ind^dj
4
^4  .
Indeed, my Lord, ” cried I, I know not why it should be, unless that Sir Charles regards me as a rival.”
“A rival V exclaimed he; “that is a terrific word — are you in truth one
“I will give up my Secret at once to your Lordship — — I ardently love Lady liouisa Sydney; but she is attached to one
totally insensible of her merit.” --
“Stop, ” cried Sir Charles, “you go too far — infinitely too far!” — I have discovered that it is not Melmoth you allude to — it is I whom you call the insensible, the unworthy, the credulous blockhead — Speak, is it not
In plain words. Sir Charles, I had you, and you alone, in my thoughts, when I used those expressions.”
However grating to my ear, however repugnant to my feelings they were, I con fess, from what I have Seen in my louisa’s own writing, I merited them but too well— — Norton, how cruel have you been in So long refusing to hear me make this acknowledgment!”
“Bravo!” exclaimed Lord Beaumont: £ this is the way to do business— — will
find
1
 .
End it more eligible, I can tell you, young men, than Sullen silence, or forced compliments of ceremony — and I shall be enabled to come at the origin of this intricate affair You told me, on my arrival, Montague, that your fortune was not impaired, but that, disgusted with the world, you had abandoned it — and alleged the reason So common in every mouth, to be freed from the society of a Set of people you despifed^ whom you conceivedjustly enough of to be assured, that, under the influence of poverty, they would cease to molest you. I furged to know what had disgusted you? You entreated me to excuse your Speaking further on the Subject. Now I will excuse you no longer. Let me be acquainted with the cause of your burying yourself in this Solitary dwelling
Sir Charles was confused; but, after a little while, collected Spirits Sufficient to go through the recital that he gave Lord Ofmond in the letter now in your lord ship’s possession. When he ended his narrative, “I am convinced, my Lord, ’*, added he, “that I have been much to blame in So hastily giving implicit faith to
Lady
0
i^ady sommerviile’s assirmation; buthea vea is my witness, that, to avoid troubling louisa with the sight of a man, who I believed had occasioned her too much unea siness, was the only motive that aistuated my conduct on the occasion; and to be persuaded that I am as dear to her, as I once thought, would make me Superlatively happy
Lord Beaumont condemned his rash behaviour — he Spoke very Sensibly — very keenly. Montague had but little to Say in his vindication,
“Will you not call me your guardian angel, ’* cried I, “if I give you incon testible proofs of her fidelity ?'*
You have already done that, my dear William, I no longer doubt that she did love me, when I in So dastardly a manner gratified Lady sommerville’s malice; but that she does So still, requires authority from Heaven to make me believe it — No, Lady louisa must defpise, must execrate me!”
I cannot think So, ” returned I; but
1 am ignorant how you will bear to be informed of the dreadful circumstances that
^ followed
s
t
 . 97
followed your abandoning her. She had not that to lament alone; but the unexpected death of Sir George Sommerville, which happened in a few days after his receiving the letter you wrote, declaring your inability to wed his niece. The poor old man, revived by the hope of Seeing her yours, struggled vidoriousty against the grave for many months; but the prop
which Supported him taken away- -- --
wonder he should fall immediately. — Yet there is Something still worse — she has been vilely traduced.’*
Montague was fixed torpid to his Seat several minutes elapsed before he could articulate — “I the occasion of her uncle’s death! — louisa vilely traduced! — Ah, my Lord, I never was completely wretched till this instant! — Norton, approach me not! — Good men must be Seized with horror at holding any intercourse with Such a
villain.”
“Could you not make reparation, ' ample reparation for these misfortunes, my dear Montague, I would never have mentioned them to you. Be a man; be composed; possess yourself, I have de
vol. IV F dared
^8 M ASQ^U ERADES; or,
dared the bad; the good comes next to be related. Lady Sommerville is punished — Lady louisa cleared. Let us go through the whole affair this evening; — and my worthy Lord will assist us with his coun sel how to proceed next !”
Lord Beaumont was deeply affected at his nephew’s Situation — J withdraw for the papers I had to show them — On my return, I gave, from the beginning, a detail of Lady sommerville’s V hole plot; her conversations with Lady Arne and Lortl Pemberton; her inhuman treatment of her niece; my consuhaiion with your Lordship; my journey into Hampshire, and the incidents that followed, — which, I told Sir Charles, plainly demonstrated that Lady Sommerville was the Sole origin of every calamity that had happened — that it was incumbent on him to Set his mind at rest,; and look forward to the means of rewarding louisa for all she had endured. Hr Charles Said, his blind jealousy had made him as culpable as Lady sommer ville; and that to renew his addresses was out of the question. “It would be presumption unparalleled, Norton!” added
he:
 . 99
he: “you are the person to whom she must be given; you have evinced your passion; you have cleared her injured reputation; you have Suffered no artful instigator to work upon your senses; you have been an assiduous friend, an ardent lover; you alone are worthy of her — and I am lost !”
“I Swear to you, Montague, ” replied 1, “that, was I as deserving of her as you Say, and she was to consent to become mine — tenderly as I love her, I would not marry her. My notions are delicate: I would not be content with the Second place in her heart; and am Satisfied, gratitude only could compel her to bestow her hand on me. Think of me no more in this case : pardon my trial of your affection for her last Wednesday; pardon my keeping you in suspense — I meant to punish you — already repent of it — And now look on me, as one who Sympathises in your di stress, who will leave nothing undone to ' accomplish your union !”
Lord Beaumont Snatched my hand, and thanked me for what he termed my generosity to his dear Charles. ‘‘ And now, my
F 2 boys” ”

boys, ” cried he, “what do you think of our Setting out for Lord arne’s tomorrow.? We will tear up the earth with our haste, and for once in our lives Spare neither drivers nor horses — You fancy me dilatory; — nay, if you will go off this minute, have with you! — I am young again, and imagine it is my own mistress that I am hurrying to, on the wings of the wind.”
I begged his Lordship to moderate his impatient ecstasies a little. I hinted that it might be very necessary that Lady louisa should be first informed of the transactions which had passed at sommerville house, as 1 was convinced that she knew nothing of them yet.
Pshaw !” exclaimed Lord Beaumont; “the sight of Montague will afford an agreeable Surprise to her — I hate your dull delays !”
Sir Charles implored his uncle to be
guided by me.
“Our good Norton, my Lord, has reasoa for this caution, no doubt! — My eager heart with rapture anticipates our meeting; and yet I cann.)t suppose she de sir, s .0 See me — She never wil be mi C
Ipio
 . loi
I proposed dispatching this letter to your Lordship by express — it was readily assented to. I am Sure, Lady Mortimer will lose no time in preparing Lady Louisa to expe(st a return of her penitent.
We intend leaving Elwellyn Castle on Thursday morning; and So far from tearing up the earth which lies between this and Wallingbrook abbey, and dejiroying drivers and horfesf we shall take the journey very leisurely, lest we should arrive prematurely.
I have nothing more to add, than my good wishes for your Lordship, and my best respedls to Lady Mortimer, and her two amiable companions. I have the honour to be, my Lord,
Your lordship’s most faithful.
And obliged humble Servant,
W. Norton.
F 3, tri

102
To Lady Julia Herbert (endofing the
■preceding Letter).
I
jdsndfor..
Read Mr. norton’s letter from El
wcllyn, my dear girl, and then, in the best manner you are able acquaint louisa with all the mischief that was practised against her. I presume you are at Southampton; So there will not be as much danger, as Norton apprehends, of a Surprise. I begin to pity Montague, and wish his sighs may be Soon at a period. I have a foolish good-natured heart, that readily Softens when a person acknowledges a fault. Do, dear Julia, if the marriage is Speedily fblemnized, press the happy pair. Lord Beaumont, your kind host and hostess, to pay us a visit at windsor. We expect Norton here, before that event takes place; — but my Lord will write the Gentlemen — I the Ladies invitations, as Soon as you inform us that you are blessedly
en
\
 . loj
in train. Lord and Lady Arne can as well go from hence to Bath.
I suppose you hear regularly from my mother and her party, and know that they have been upwards of three weeks in Kent.
The Duke of Westmoreland and his cara are in London, busied in miking up clothes, equipages, cc. c. against the approachingyaa^ occasion.
And now bear it with patience, when I
tell you that you have lost a captive— —
Seymour was married on Monday to miss Walpole.
Westbrook, who is with us, bids me assure you of his love, and that he longs to see you. The time draws very near for his becoming a grave., important married man. I trust the ceremony will not have the Same bad esfed on his temper, that it
produced on my brother’s. -- -- (Indeed his
choice is a preferable one!) -- However,
let me tell you. Some few hints I gave Pemberton on that head. Seemed to make an impression on him; though I must do him the justice to Say, that he received them with a very ill grace. You have
F 4 mucfi
\
✓
j04
much reason to regard Sir James; for I believe he would go any lengths to render you happy. — Adieu, my dear Julia!
4
Ever yours,
Caroline Mortimer,
N
f
To Lad Mortimer,
southamptohy Monday Night,
WE came here two days ago, my dear
Sister, and have been already, visited by the most fashionable inhabitants of this city. Amongst those who immediately paid us that compliment were Colonel Worthley and his Lady, He was
in the beginning of the last winter a lover of louisa’s, but, on her rejedbing of him, he turned his thoughts on miss stevenson,
who
V
 . 105
who very gladly accepted the heart that louisa refused. He is Snaart, degage j she is very pretty, and very lively.
I received your dispatches this afternoon — louisa was in her dreffing room, employed in trimming a Sacque for Ladjr Arne, with Some of her own work. I was reading to her Ladyship in the drawing-room when your Servant arrived; So that I had a lucky opportunity of disclosing to her the part Mr. Norton had performed at Sommerville house, and at Elwellyn — and what we were to expert from it. I need not expatiate on the pleasure my tidings gave her. She went to acquaint my Lord of what she had just heard; and I repaired to louisa’s apartment.
My poor friend was deeply affecsted at my recital, and much shocked at Lady sommerville’s conduct; but she. uttered no reproaches, and only lamented the degeneracy of her principles. She was penetrated at Mr. norton’s goodness — at rhy Lord mortimer’s humanity, in being chiefly instrumental to the benefit she had received. She mentioned Lady arne’s and my brother’s tenderness, in paying no
F 5 regard
*
io
regard to the report which was made to her dishonour, with acknowledgment. She shed tears of Sorrow for Mr. melmoth’s ill health, and for her having judged So rashly — So unworthily of him, as to fus pedt he had been the author of her misery. As to Sir Charles, she was silent. I entreated to know whether she did not compassionate him She shook her head —
“Read there, louisa, ” cried I, giving her Mr. norton’s last letter to my Lord decide whether your noble friend did not revenge you on him Sufficiently. If the least advocate for the man you once So tenderly loved remains in your breast, stifle not its pleadings — in every wandering of the senses during this unlucky affair, how dreadfully has he Suffered! For god’s Sake, let the examples of generosity which that paper contains, operate on you! Instead of the disdainful mistress Sir Charles expedls to behold, allow him to find his gentle, forgiving louisa I ”
“Depend upon it, Julia, that I will be as generous as I can — I determined, on the receipt of Sir Charles montague’s last, inhuman letter, never tp marry — 1 revoke
the
 ; 107
the resolution — I will marry — Mr. Norton shall be the husband of my ele«fiion.”
“That would be ridiculous indeed! — but read what you have in your hand; and learn, that, though you should be absurd enough to persevere in Such an intention, Mr. Norton has too much sense, too re,, a way of thinking, to receive a wife with Sentiments of gratitude for him, instead of Sentiments of love
She perused the letter with infinite composure— — folded it up deliberately, and gave it back to me with this apostrophe,
“Excellent Norton !’^
“You are very unkind, dear louisa, ** cried I, “thus to keep me in suspenfe by your reserve! — Do you not pardon Montague V
“Yes, Julia.”
“And will you not reinstate him in your affections?” ?”
“have had a very great struggle to, cast him from them — 1 think what 1 have endured was a punishment 1 deserved from Heaven, for permitting my Soul to dote with So much fondness on any created thing — In that light I viev^'cci my mise
6 fortuncj,
io
fortune, in being deprived first of him, and then of my dear uncle — No, never never will I again give him that place in my heart he once held. I have brought myself, I trust, to reflect on him with indifference; I hope I should look on him without emotion. If I can prevent Seeing him, I will do it; if I cannot, the disagreeable circumstance must be Submitted to with patience“
“this is very fine, louisa! — But I regard matters now in a reverse way. Perhaps Heaven was offended at the height of your love for Sir Charles (which by the bye I cannot believe): it tried your fortitude in bereaving you of him for a while — you acquitted yourself under that calamity as became a Christian; and it rewards your resignation to its decrees, by giving him back to you. — Ah, my God! consider what af siidion he endures.”
“Consider what affliction I endured, when planning Schemes of future happiness — when, in momently expectation of his coming who was the Source of every blessing I fondly hoped -- I received a letter — a cruel, insult ing letter, to Say, we should never meet again.
— I was told to look into my heart for
the
/
 . 109
the cause — I did look into it— — found nothing there, but an ungovernable passion, that would not be instantly quelled by Such an outrage from the contemptible object of it whattorments equalled mine 1 — A helpless, weak, wretched girl! — To give implicit credit to Lady Sommerville — to forget, the moment she Spoke, all that I had done to prove my love! — Julia, he either was glad of the pretence to leave me -- oris of So jealous. So suspicious a nature, as will render the woman miserable whom he marries! — Mention him no more, I conjure you, but let us avoid him — Give me a new proof of friendship, dear Julia — accompany me to Windsor— — will elude this visit !’*
L objected; and, on her again urging it, told her if she wished to avoid him., Windsor would not be the place, for that you and my Lord were warmly his defenders and that there was no doubt but he would be glad to find her sheltered there. She wept bitterly, and proposed our going Into Kent to my mother. I Said, if she was resolved on it, I would certainly attend her; but that it must appear very odd, and as if
she
iro
she was afraid to trust herself with a sight of Sir Charles. That Settled the point directly: she declared, So far from it, that she would stay and convince him of her firmness. — 1 left Lord and Lady Arne pleading for the unhappy Montague. — In Spite of what she Says, I am persuaded she is as ardently attached to him as ever; and, however strange, I had a contrary opinion till this evening. resentment appears to her imagination in the form of hatred; but it is no more than a cloud over her love, which the approach, the Sorrow, the rhc torick of Sir Charles, will remove. If So totally indifferent, why care whether she sees him or not? — If she still loves, yet determined not to marry him, why care what his thoughts may be of her flight She would let him think as he pleased, be attentive alone to her own Security, and effect it by the only feasible plan left her. — Hence I conclude that she is neither indifferent — nor absolutely bent on being cruel.
Mr. norton’s letter was dispatched from Elwellyn yesterday week — the gentlemen were to Set out last Thursday— — many days will not elapse before we See them,
and know the resulc I am So anxious for.
* *
 . iir
%
»
, tUESday Evening.
Wte are to pay a visit this evening to Mrs. Worthley, and accompany her to the ball. Once more, my dear Sister, much against my will do I enter into public — The last time I danced — ah, good God! — Caroline, what ideas crowd upon my brain! — Think not I will profane my hand by giving it to any other partner than the one it was yielded to on'that memorable night — How insipid, how despicable now, are all diversions to me!
^ At * * * ♦ 49^
^ f
Twelve O'clock.
I am more than ever convinced, that, in defiance of all louisa’s boasted tranquillity, she adores Montague. I never Saw her pos sess better Spirits than she has done all day: her features were brightened, her complexion vivid. She danced with Colonel Worthley. Once as she passed us in a cotillon. Lord Arne whispered me.
Her
\
ii   Sj or,
Her heart is not much oppressed — the expectation of Seeing Montague has taken a prodigious weight off it. Lady Julia! — Yes, yes, the thing will do f”
“When do you suppose he will be here, my Lord
“I look for him momently. If it had not been for that tedious dog Norton, all would be over by this time — but he must wait, forsooh, till she was apprized.' cursed nonsense! I Swear to you. Lady Julia, I am at a loss what to think of the young men of this age; they know not what it is to be in love; they had rather fail in visiting their mistresses, than in consulting their glasses — Was there ever anything So insen sible as Sir Charles, to aid Norton in begging his uncle to postpone their journey.? — Ah! in our days, Beaumont and I were very different lovers. Had you Seen with what ardour I woo’d my dame! — there she sits — I made a riot every night under her window, to let her know that I passed all my time in thinking of her — determined
within myself, that she should not rest till
%
she had made me happy — Burr, faith, 1 was obliged to drop that nodurnal recreation;
for
 . 113
for it was hinted that a cousin of mine, who hoped to get my fortune, meditated obtaining a statute of lunacy against me — Aye, aye, we were very opposite lovers indeed!
Would to God, my dear Caroline, that Louisa may not trifle away her happiness romanticly, as my mother once told me on a distressing occasion! For my own sake, as well as hers, I wish her married to Sir Charles, that I may leave this place. One of my misfortunes of late is, always to think that I shall be easier in any Spot than that which contains me. At windsor I must in reality be So — I shall have every Satisfaction in your Society, and your amiable com * panion’s. Indeed, I have nothing to quarrel with here, but the continual disturbance of a new visiter — and that, in my opinionis
enough of all conscience!
^ •
^ ^
Wednesday Evening.
louisa’s face wears the contrary marks of uneasiness and happiness. One minute she is in tears, and hopes Sir Charles has So
just
t
114
just an idea of her, as to be assured of her contempt, and that he will Spare himself the mortification of being told that he merits nothing more from her — The next she Smiles, and inadvertently rejoices that he has discovered how unworthily he treated a heart which was So wholly his. — Ah, what inconsistency! -- She goes often to the window; fancies her motive for doing So, is misconstrued; that I susped: her of looking for Sir Charles — vindicates herself, though I have not opened my lips — I laugh; she blushes, and is vexed.
^
Saturday Night.
After tea Lord Arne informed me, in t low voice, that his friends from Elwellyn were arrived at the George; that he had just received a note from Mr. Norton to Say, that they had been at Wallingbrook abbey, and, finding the family removed from thence, had followed to Southampton; that the trio only waited permission to pay their respedls to him and Lady Arne.
I am going, ” Said my Lord, “to con
du

 US
dub them hither. Dear Lady Julia, let a kind welcome from a certain favourite of yours await the poor wo begone baronet!” I beckoned louisa to accompany me to Lady Arne dreshng room (for there were strangers with us), and when we got there I told her what I had just heard. I never Saw her So agitated. “Julia, ” cried she, I cannot See him indeed I cannot! 1 was courageous till now — now I am the veriest coward ]”
“Why, my dear louisa, there is no great exertion of courage requisite on this occasion. You are extremely mistaken in imagining that Sir Charles is not still dear to you. Believe me, human nature has miseries enough to encounter, without our endeavouring to find more in our own caprices — Tell him you forgive him, and are as willing as he can be to draw the veil of oblivion on past errors.”
“Never — never, Julia!”
“Well, louisa, you know best; but I should do So in your case.”
“You was not So coriiplacent to Mr.
Lenox, Julia!”
“My
ii
“My God, what a comparison! — In the
first place Mr. Lenox committed an unpardonable crime in my opinion — in the next I never loved him. And, after all, what has Montague done? He has been too diffident — been too delicate.’*
“You have not test as poignantly my Sufferings on his account, as 1 should have felt yours on any interesting Subject; elsc you would think his behaviour ought not to be glossed over by Such phrases.”
“As I know your present consiidts, I can readily give no attention to this unkindness. You will judge otherwise of me when you are calm.”
She threw her arms round my neck, and wept most piteously — At the moment Mr. Norton entered — she got up, and stew towards him with precipitation — she would have fab len at his feet, had he not prevented her. He Saluted her with tenderness, and, after inquiring about her health, begged to be allowed to introduce to her the most repen* taht^the most ardent of lovers.
I disown every lover, ” replied she,
‘‘ but him whq is cruel enough to reject
me— —
YOU WILL. tiy
me — he Says I shall never be his wife — never will I be any other’s !”
Mr. Norton Seemed confused.
“My dear louisa, ” returned he, “I have one very particular request to make you, which, if you deny me, might make my life most wretched — Say that you will not V
“I already, my generous friend, owe you more than life — the horrid stain you
have taken off my character- --
more, no more, louisa! — you dis tress me — What I have to Supplicate is, that, in the presence of Lady Julia, you will promise from this minute not to tempt my prudence by an offer of your hand — I doubt my strength — If I have not fortitude Sufficient to withstand it — I shall be miserable — even with you miserable! — promise this; or I am gone immediately from your sight, perhaps for ever!”
She hid her face in my bosom“
“hear him, Julia — what inhumanity! — He has proved his affection for me in a manner that no language can express — he has attached me to him by every tie — •
my heart is now devoted to him alone — a id
ii
/
in a cruel instant he blasts all my hopes by bidding me not dare to aspire to So much worth.”
norton’s eyes Sparkled — he was about to press her hand to his lips — to pour forth his transports — but Suddenly checking himself— — the third part of a Second, his, whole form assumed another appearance. He dropped her hand: “promise what I ask, louisa — or farewell!” He got up —
“Stay, ” cried she : since you are So barbarous as to desire it — since I am no longer dear to you — since without this promise I am never to See you more — my pro
te<5lqr — my best friend -- the beloved” -- -- -
“Oh, louisa, this is too much !” exclaimed he; “for god’s Sake Spare me! —
I cannot be a man and — Lady Julia, adieu! — Restore your friend to reason when 1 am gone — and tell her that this is nothing more than an illusion of thefcnses — I am not the beloved of her Soul — the refiediion of a cool moment will convince her that I am not.” “Do not go, Mr. Norton, ” cried louisa; ** I implore you not to leave me, and I Solemnly promise to torment you no further — 1 have done, Sir — you shall hear nothing
 . 119
thing more of my attachment — it disgusts you — and I will comfort myself in the hope of your finding with another that felicity you confess I cannot give you !’*
He was much affected — I compassionated him sincerely — I knew the Sacrifice he made was to honour — to delicacy — He would not interfere with montague’s happiness — he would not be Satisfied with a heart, he suf pedled, given to him merely through punctilios of gratitude. I should have thought her in a hazardous situation with any other man — 1 believe there is not another who could have withstood the temptation — Such ■ an offer would have been gladly accepted by any lover of louisa’s but himself. Her imagination, confused by the impulses which adluated her, would never have been able to analyse the motive — to abstradl gratitude from love -- She would have married, as she supposed, the object of her affections, and in a little time have found out the mistakes of her precipitate heart. Whilst Mr. Norton was endeavouring to convince her of this, Lord Arne entered, followed by Sir Charles Montague — his person strongly testified the melancholy he was absorbed in
— He
120 M ASQ.UERADES; or,
— He approached stowly, with his hands in his bosom, and his eyes bent on the ground, the Sofa we were Seated on, louisa in a minute collected all her firmness, and with a composure infinitely distreffing to him, returned a ceremonious curtsy, with a very stately air, to his humble bow. He blushed, was for the first time awkward, and Seemed unable to address her.
“Come, my dear Montague, ” Said Mr. Norton, “take my place, and become your own advocate with this cruel girl.”
“Norton, that chilling air — my unworthiness — the keen anguish I feel^ lady
louisa, your countenance commands me from your presence — it arraigns the friends I have about me, for Suffering me to taste the blessing of again beholding you — You will not deign to Speak to me at your feet, let me beseech you to Say, whether there is any Severe punishment that can be inssidled on the credulous, — miserable Montague, which might render him less hateful in your eyes.? — Name it, Madam — and then judge of my remorse, by the avidity with which I will embrace it.”
‘‘ Indeed, Sir, I wish to punish no one!
— T hese
A
 , lai
— these rhapsodies are not pleasing — I beg to be released from them.” She attempted to retire.
No, by my faith!” cried Lord Arne, ' you must not leave the room — you shall hear all that Sir Charles has to offer in his vindication — I interest myself too nearly in your happiness not to wish him success— — Norton, this cursed gout has prevented my being an agreeable dangler at a young lady’s Side — I know the time vyhen I Would have officiated in that department better than any Spark of you all — but that’s of no coni'equence now! Attend Lady Julia into my wife, who desires to Speak with her. — Give me your hand, louisa — here, Montague, take it — and if you part with it till you receive a vow from her to make you another before the parson i shall think despicably of your oratorical powers.”
“Julia, ” exclaimed Louisa, since I aiti condemned to listen to Sir Charles, X insist t your staying with me 1”
“Lady Arne wants me, you hear, ”
“Aye, aye, so she does 1” cried my Lord; and m hastening out with us he gave his f; ot cm: unlucky hurt which
vol, IV G made
M
122 .MASQ.UERADESJ OR,
made him vociferous for two minutes, and in that Space he uttered two hundred oaths.
On entering the drawing room, we Sound no one in it but my Lord Beaumont and Lady Arne. The old Lord is a most sace tiius, engaging creature.
An hour had elapsed when Sir Charles joined us in a Situation that struck me with' horror,
“Oh, great God, ” he exclaimed, “this is too much! — Oh, my Lord, why did I come to Southampton? — To renew all my agonies — to render myself a thousand times more wretched — to love her if possible beyond what I did before -- and to hear from her own mouth that fne never will be mine! — Let us leave this place — I cannot bear it 1”. ^
“So I ” cried Lord Arne, “Lady louisa
is inexorable 1”
Sir Charles had throwm himself into a chair, and was incapable of answering — Lord Beaumont looked perplexed and very uneasy — Lord Arne and I returned to louisa, whom we found in a violent stood of tears.
yin the name of heaven, my dear child, ”
cried
 . n
cried he, what is all this for Can there be anything So abominably ridiculous !- — Tell me, in one word, are you resolved not to marry Sir Charles Montague V “Yes, my Lord, 1 am.”
“Very well — you will repent of it, af sure yourself— — is on the verge of leaving Southampton — and when you hear of his death, you may look back with Sorrow on the constraint you put upon your inclinations to make him Suffer.”
She attempted to vindicate her conduct.
Oh, ” Said my Lord, “give yourself no trouble !” r you cannot convince me that you aft properly -- You are Satisfied that you do -- dt is Sufficient — I will tease you no more -- you will hear nothing further from Sir Charles — he is persuaded that what you and he term his offence, ought not to be pardoned — when he is in Some measure recovered from the deplorable condition I left him in, Lord Beaumont and Mr. Norton will remove him from you for ever.”
She was terrified, and Sunk upon my shoulder. Lord Arne went out, but in a few minutes came back : “Lady louisa, ”
, Cfkd he, “1 am Sent against my will to,
G z entreat
MAS<LUERADES; or,
entreat that you will allow Sir Charles Montague to bid you once more farewell. I remonstrated with him — I strove to convince him that it would only add torture to what he already felt: for my dear friend, ’’ Said I, “are you ignorant, that, in this age, a young lady’s characteristic is pertinaciousness? What an impeachment of good sense would follow a relaxation of her determination! — and take my word for it, that, though she loves to distradion, yet the happmess of breaking a lover’s heart is a triumph she must give to her vanity — 1 will tell him to begone, shall 1 not ?”
“You are very cruel, my Lord, ” replied louisa — “Julia, what is to be done?”
“Oh, see him by all means !” answered I; “but not to repeat what you have already Said.”
“Then I cannot see him, ” she exclaimed.
“That is right, my dear girl!” cried Lord Arne— — “retrad for the honour of the Sex! 1 will desire him not to
think of it” — and away he hobbled.
iiow provoking, Julia!” Said she —
 . i2j
4
he has no Seeling — no refinement! — Why could not Lady Arne have brought the message
“Do not be uneasy, louisa — I will go out and Say, that I have prevailed on you to consent to the wishes of Sir Charles.’*
‘‘ Good heaven, his wishes! — I will not marry him — you know I resolved not.” True — but I ailb know that rash— — resolutions are better broken than kept — However, I mean nothing of the fort — but to See him once more — Unhappy Montague !”
“Oh, Julia!” —
“He will be gone, ray dear, and you will have time enough to weep after he departs.”
Before she Iiad opportunity to reply,
, Sir Charles, entered with Lady Arne. He threw himsels at louisa’s feet — he clasped her hands, and bathed them with bis tears.
“I come. Madam, ” cried he, to bid you a long farewell — to implore you to think with compassion on a man whose Sault is adequately chastifed by an eternal reparation from you — add not your hatred to such punishment” - —
G S Bfe
♦
12.6
/
He was interrupted by the appearance of the two old Lords and Mr, Norton — Lord Beaumont dropped on his knees, and Supplicated his nephew’s pardon.
“louisa, ” Said Mr. Norton, “I demand, as an instance of your friendship, that you forgive my amiable Montague — elfe I shall never forgive myself for what I made him Suffer at Elwellyn.”
“I conjure you, ” cried I, “by the love which has Subsisted between us, to forget from this minute the cause of your quarrel i”
“I beg you, ” Said Lady Arne, “not to gratify Lady Sommerville So far as to crown with Success her iniquitous plot. She desired to Separate you.”
And I beseech you, ” exclaimed Lord Arne, “to persevere in your heroics! -- for the honour of the sex., do not reirafi! '
We looked with amazement at him.
“Come, ” Said he, “a Second time give me your hand he put it into montague’s ' — “Now i command you, with the autho riry of a parent, to accept of Sir Charles for your husband— — take her, and heaven make you happy! We have witnesses enough to Swear, that Lady louisa Sydney
would
I
 . 127
N
would never have married Montague, would never have yielded a point oifemale perverse nefst but for the tyrannic compulsion of that old fool, who calls himself her father. This matter will be canvassed by a council of Ladies — you will be acquitted with honour. You are more indebted than you are apprized of, to my arbitrary method of fettling the affair !’*,
“Ah, my Lord i — lctiisa — my louisa must not be constrained — she assents not !’*
“I do. Sir Charles, assent — not from the motive Lord Arne supposes — but because I find it impossible to refuse Such powerful intercessors.”
'“And to their influence alone do I owe Such a blessing V
‘‘.not entirely !” replied fly with a Smile — “I perceive 1 cannot So easily part with you as I supposed.”
Oh that Lady Sommerville could at this instant look in upon us !” cried Lord Arne.
You will best judge of the immediate change which' appeared in every countenance excepting Mr. norton’s, who, though he had been So active in facilitating this reg
4 con
128
conciliation, was not a whit less Sensible of the prize he gave up to Montague.
“Another thing I have determined on, ’' cried Lord Arne, “is this — not to have any more delays! — • sir Charles, 1 will have my louisa married directly- -- -- Say you, shall it be to morrow night
Sir Charles with transport returned an affirmative. Lord. Beaumont rubbed his hands, and paid his brother peer many compliments for the propostil. louisa protested against it. Lady Arne Said she ought to be allowed a few days, at least, to look about her.
“there’s for you now !” exclaimed her Lord. “My Lady, did I ash you to say a ‘ word about the matter? Had 1 Suffered you to have been the bearer just now as you desired, of montague’s message; he would have been halfway to Elwellyn by this time! - — Well, since you — and your young Lady there — have Such objeiftions — the ceremony shall be deferred till tuesday night; but I Swear to you, louisa, no longer time shall be allowed you to play off your dcspotic airs. tomorrow we will go back to wall lingbrook abbey, where my friend Mr,
Benstey
WTSAT YOU WILL,.
Bensiey shall on the day appointed, fasten the Gordian knot.
louisa declared she was unwilling.to convince Sir Charles, by So much haste: tcr« confirm him hers, that she was afraid totrush: him further. He pressed her in the tender i^ est manner not to delay his happiness“ “-- ry thing is prepared for our nuptials, my louisa: the writings are ready for signing they will arrive from London before tues day. What can excuse a procrastination ?’*
“louisa, ” cried Mr. Norton, “consent: with a good grace at once. Earn obliged; to be at.windsor by dinner time tomorrow,, should be Sorry to depart without hearing a short day fixed for your marriage Let it be Tuesday.”
Lord Beaumont, strenuously besought her; ' to comply.
“Come, my Lady, ” cried Lord Arne,, taking her affectionately by the hand,.
what do you Say? Do you think well off tuesday?”
“Oh, I am obliged to you truly, ” replied Lady Arne, with affected displeasure,, for allowing me to say a word, about thet
G ■ maturdf
1^0 MAS Q, U ERADES; or,
matter! Great condescension in you really f However, I think very well of it.
1 was Silent; for though I wished the nuptials Soon to take place, yet 1 thought they precipitated her too much : but they carried the point, and next Tuesday will see her montague’s.
I shall life the opportunity of Mr. norton’s going to windsor to send this. He is to take an early breakfast with us. There needs no great study to discover what hurries him away — he cannot stay and behold the preparations for louisa’s marriage. I should have told you that Sir Charles was very warm in his acknowledgments to this excellent friend, for the generous Services he rendered him. He dwelled So feelingly on the fubjedf, as to distress him, and affect: us. Once when Mr. norton’s back was turned, Lord Beaumont Said he could not have conceived it possible, on So short an acquaintance, for him to have respeded — to have esteemed any man to the degree he
does Mr. Norton.
1
I have Spent two hours at my pen, and
am unable to answer Some passages in your
last
4
WHAT Y O U W I L L
last letter at present. Farewell, my dear Caroline. May every blessing attend you and my good Lord! Tell Sir James, I hope to See him Soon — that pleasure will be heightened in finding himi the husband of my amiable Emily. Fail not to embrace her — and to present to Lady Caroline den lay the affectionate iespe£ts of
0
Your Sincerely attached
Julia Herbert
I return you Sir charles’s packet, as my Lord may now chuse to Send it to the Marquis; and give him at once to know the late distrels of his friend, and the occurrences of the past night.
. t
9
I
\
0 6
i
\
/
/
\
tji M ASQ.UERADES; OR,
• »
i‘o Lady mortium,
L
jvallinghrtrok^ Abbey Ifhiirjday Evening,
Louisa no more owns the name of
Sydney, but boasts that of Montague. Last Tuesday night she was married to a man, who I believe will leave no art untried to make her happy. She must think it an obligation due to his merit — incumbent on her affecstion, to render him equally So. Lord Arne rejoices mightily at their union. He proposes twenty times a day to> pay a visit to Lady Sommerville. No entreaties we could make hindered him from
V
■writing her a letter last night, i? demand her congratulations on an event that he well knew Jhe has long earrfejlly wijhedjhould happen.
This day after dinner, he declared Sir Charles should not make So ill a return for the blessing he had conferred on him,, .as to deprive his Lady and himself of the Sweetest companion they ever had. Lord.beaumont did not Seem well pleased, as he expected
Sir Charles and his. fair bride would goi
with.
 . 133 C
with him for a little while to Bagshot. He told Lord Arne So, and begged he would not disappoint him of the pleasure he had hoped for, but to accompany them. “Lady Arne, ” added he, “and my charming, Julia, I am Sure, will gratify me in honouring my house with their abode !” ',
“Free enough, ” you will Say,, this' stranger is become with you.” I like it of all things — he has So friendly a method of using those appellations, there is Something' So noble in his manner at the time, and; withal his respedlable form inspires me' with So much veneration for him, that L am delighted to imagine he thinks me worthy of his notice;
“lam Sorry, my Lord, ” cried I, “that: I am obliged to quit this agreeable party;, but I am expected by my Sister in a few days: nay more,, I must presume to interfere with your lordship’s Scheme. Lady mortimer has commissioned me to entreat; the favour of every individual, in this room, to accompany me to Windsor. As foon as they know that Sir Charles and Lady louisa are united, you will receive invitations from hersdfand my Lord Mortimer.” ^
y riii
f ^
\
134 M as(^ueradesj or,
ru tell your Lordship how we had best Settle the matter, ” Said Lord Arne. “This plaguy gout forces me to Bath in a few weeks — we will have the honour of attending, Lady mortimer’s invitation, — Spend three weeks at windsor, from whence we will proceed to Bath for a couple of months — attend this joyous pair to London — see them presented — I hate London, therefore cannot stay long in it — Old Darby and Joan will come back to Southampton for the remainder of the cold feason, and meet Sir Charles, his wife, and Lady Julia, at your lordship’s favourite Seat, early in the Summer.”
“Excellent!” cried Lord Beaumont. Lady Arne, louisa, and Sir Charles, declared their approbation of the proposal— — thanked them in my brother’s name and yours for the honour they intended you. “But our dear Julia, my Lord, ” cried Lady Arne, “will totally Spoil our project— — she persists in her resolution of not ■ going to Bath with us.
“Indeed, my Lady, but she shall break it though, ” replied Lord Arne: “I have no idea of young girls being positive — I
laid
V 'r e
 35
laid my commands upon one daughter to marry the man of — her choice; and I will see if my other daughter is less dutiful, when I command her not to rob me of her Society!’*
“Would to heaven, ” exclaimed Lord Beaumont, that I was a young handsome fellow! — I would petition hard for a repeal of that determination. Lady Julia — but as I am, what can 1 do more than deplore the harsh decree 1”
Oh faith, I give a tolerable guess, ” Said Lord Arne, “all is not right within that lily bosom! — Where is the happy youth. Lady Julia? I sincerely wish he was present at this moment — nay, do not turn So pale !’*
I was silly enough to be discomposed, ' Sir Charles immediately asked Lord Arne a question that quite turned the topic; and, I reco/ered from my embarrassment. — Is it possible, dear Caroline, that my attachment should not be well known to Lord Arne? Has it not been the Subject of the very papers? On the night that I Saw Lord of mond for the last time, what confusion reigned throughout the house! How ma
py.
%
1: 36
A
ny eyes were extended on me! how many ears devoured the tale as it was buzzed
amidst the crowd! -- -- The duel -- -- that
shocking duel was made as public as there
fun! -- -- Every one must have been Solicitous
to learn the cause — every one must have heard that the Duke was jealous of: my osmond. — Ah, Lady Mortimer, how'
many people enjoyed the recital! how
was their curiosity gratified !' — — Perhaps, they laughed at it — whilst the miserable parties themselves were absorbed im wretchedness unutterable! I am Sure Lord Arne must be either ignorant of the affair, or have forgotten it; for though: he has not those nice notions of Sensibility which polish the Soul, yet he would not, It am convinced, be indelicate. Lord Beaumont was Silent; he looked at me with. Gompashon. I caught his eyes; he instantly turned them from me,, and Said; Something to Lady Arne
After tea. Sir Charles begged I would allow him occasionally to Speak to me of his admirable friend without constraint, I assured him, that his doing so would give me infinite pleasure
\
YOU WILL. 137
“I know, ” cried he, “I shall incur your censure, by confessing that he has not received a line from me since he left Windsor. You will think me unkind; but the only Subject 1 could write on, was my unhappy situation. I was ignorant what to Say about you; therefore, for his sake, thought I had best restrain my pen, confident at the time that Mortimer would not neglect him. He has written to you lately. Lady Julia?”
“Two months ago. Sir Charles, a letter was Sent to me from Lord Ofmond, which I was bound in honour not to read. I re turned it to my sister. Since that time, I have not heard of him, ”
Montague expressed amazement at my not perusing it. I told him how I was circumstanced — he lamented my fate, and Lord osmond’s still more. He inquired where he was? I Said, in Switzerland, blit was ignorant which of the Cantons he had made choice of. “Mortimer certainly knows. Lady Julia!” “I fuppose So,
Sir !” He declared he would write immediately to the Marquis, and get it forwarded from Windsor. He entreated me
tq
138
to make osmond So happy, .as to add a postscript to his letter; and used many arguments to convince me that 1 might do it without the least breach of my word; but none of them were forcible enough to Sway me over to his mode of thinking. I assured Sir Charles I durst not; but begged he would persuade Lord osmond to believe me not less attached to him than I was when we parted, and that I must cease to live ere my affection could abate.
Ah, Lady Mortimer, how little effect can all this have when delivered by any pen but my own! My ixiother knows not the misery she infiidts on her child — my brother is too proud, too unforgiving! — But 1 will Spare myself from the afterreproaches of my own heart, by Sparing him.
I wish, my dear Sister, you could tell me of my losing another captive, and that the Duke of Suffolk was the one! My ardent prayer is, that, he might forget me, and elect another in my stead.
My dear sister, what do I not feel in the restedion, that it is on my account alone the Duke of, Westmoreland casts his Son
^ from
WHAT Y OU WILL. 139
from the inheritance nature intended him! Could 1 find any method of preventing it, how gladly would I do it I — Perhaps, was I to write the Duke a promise never to become Lord osmond’s, it might answer; —
a dreadful condition! -- yeti am not
worth purchasing at So dear a rate, as by the loss of Such a fortune as he forfeits for my Sake. If my mother does not relent, if my brother does not become more placable, I never shall be his; and to give up his expetflations from the Duke, without attaining the purpose for which he makes the Sacrifice, must render me, if possible, more wretched. — After all, my dear Caroline, it is folly to entertain an idea of their Sentiments ever changing! — They may regret their cruelty when it is too late — when this anxious heart has ceased to beat, and this flattered form is. mouldering
in the grave! -- ^consider what I have
proposed to you, and we will consult on the measures best to be adopted when I have the pleasure of feeing you.
Fiirewel, my dearest Sister.
Ever yours,
Julia Herbert.
L Q
w
140 M A S (UE R A D E S j or,
!
./
^0 aiortimer.
tvallingbrooh Abbey.
Lady Ame and louisa are writing to
you -- : the 0|ntlemen to my Lord, to Say how gladly they accept you invitation. We shall leave this place on tues day. With what "pleasure, my dearest sister, shall I embrace you, and my no less dear brother! The few months we have been Separated, appear to me a great while — But I fear 1 Sh; d' not be Suffered to remain as long at windsor as you do.. In a letter I received yesterday from my mother, she expresses an impatience to have me with her. I am apprehensive that she thinks me wanting in affection;; she supposes me much happier (she says) with my present party, than I should be with my family at Nevill. It is unkind to fancy So! Lady Pemberton judges erroneousiy of my heart in imagining that i can be happy anywhere. 1 have a notion
9
WHAT YOUWI L L 141
tion that Suffolk is with them. If So, I cer|; inly shall confess to her, that 1 am very unwilling to join her party.
tomorrow, you tell me, will be emily’s bridal day — Heaven shower blessings on her and the a r idble par ner she has chosen! I will make my own congratulations when we meet.
Adieu, my dear Caroline! I am always Your affectionate
I
Julia Herbert.
ISO Sir Charles Montague.
Berne.
IT would be absurd, my dear Montague, to attempt describing the tatis fadion 1 have in knowing that you are happy. May you coniince blessed with Louila as long as it is given the race of
mortals
/
142 MASCLOERADE's; OR,
mortals to tread this globe with conveniency; and may you both, in a comfortable old age, drop together into a peaceful grave! — I am Sure that last wish merits your mutual thanks; for, putting aside infidelity and ingratitude, every misery falls beneath that of Surviving a beloved object.
I will not hurt you by expatiating on the Subject of your letter that delineates much anguish * : I am very glad it never reached me, but in company of another, that brought me So much happier tidings. You were lucky in' obtaining Lady louila’s pardon — had it been otherwise, I should have Sympathised in your Sorrow, but could not have blamed her — and now an end to the topic. — But, what passed between you and my father was just in character. You acted a warm, a zealous part for your friend : he acted that of an
* Sir charles’s letter, Vol. Ill, p. 99. His letters to Lord Mortimer concerning bis meetings with the i uke, pp. 189 and 212, were sent by my Lord to the Marquis, in the same cover in which he enclosed Sir charles’s letter to him from Waiijiigbrook abbey,
unfeeling
 . 14i
unfeeling parent, who never was governed by a single tie of nature. I sincerely forgive him; and hope his heart may make him no reproaches in his last hours — orbis torture must be insupportable. *
Yes, Montague, it is but too true— — Julia will not read my letters; much less can I expect even a postscript from her. However, Mortimer, the generous Mortimer! has in a great measure obviated the despair I should be overwhelmed in on the occasion, by lending me a letter of hers to his wife, in which mine that Westbrook carried to England was returned. It convinces me that I am better loved by her than any man — Yet 1 am not contented — Did she love me as I wish, nothing should restridl her from making me those assurances with her own pen — nothing would prevent her from becoming mine. — But I am exorbitant in my desires. To you her conduct is right — So it would appear to me, did I not idolise her with an enthusiasm that puts prudence — reason — everything to flight wherever she' is concerned.
* *
144. M A S CLU £ R A D E S; o R,
Mortimer, Westbrook, Frederick Montague, combine, and detain me here in Spite of my inclination — Sofar from Ju; : lia — no fixed time for my return — how can I bear it! — No, Charles, it is impossible to be longer absent — Suffolk may do much mischief — I will be near at least
to avenge my wrongs -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 1 Scarcely
know what I write -- -- -- -- -- 1 am infinitely
disturbed at a letter I have this instant received from Mortimer -- -- -- -- -- What do you'
think, Montague? He says Lady Julia proposes making my father a Solemn promise never to give me her hand on condition he revocates his purpose of disinheriting me — Very disinterested of her! as she no doubt supposes — But it wears a different
aspect in my eyes -- -- -- it is confirmation
strong, that her passion is much on the wane, and that another month will erase me totally from her remembrance. After this noble 'proof of her exalted wad of thinv ingy intended for m.d. benefity I can have no
further
V
/
  145
further right to claim the preference in her heart she with Such apparent Sincerity, Such Syren sweetness, vowed I should ever maintain — No; Jhe afied for my advantage — and, sheltered under that idea, will go without remorse to the altar, and there Swear eternal love and constancy to my
damn’d rival -- -- Suffolk at length shall
conquer -- -- -- Why were women made,
good Heaven, So light. So yielding to every turn of fortune! And why, dear Montague, should my happiness be So entirely dependent on a female! — I am almost forgotten by her; yet have not the power to think of her with more indifference than I felt, when her brother bore her in his arms from my eager sight — cursed, cursed Pemberton! -- -- --
I beg of you to observe Lady Julia narrowly. If you suspect her of the alteration I do, acquaint me with, it directly. Flatter me not; but declare the truth, however horrible its shape. Fifty times in an hour 1 resolve to go to England with Frederick Montague, who is Suddenly called thither. What should I do here? — And yet to return — to be denied the
you IV ^ sight
•
146 MASCLUER ADES; or,
sight of Lady Julia — perhaps Spurned at
by her -- -- 1 cannot bear the thought!
You will accuse me of injustice: you will tell me that these suspicions are insulting
to Lady Julia- -- is the
man who loves to the degree that I do — whom Such a Space divides — who knows that his letters will not be received — who knows vrhat a powerful rival he has to dread, and what a promise his mistress proposes making to an inhuman father? — Where is the irian that can, thus Situated, discard doubts and rest Secure .'‘ — Montague, it is impossible that Such a one can be found throughout the universe! — The
o
feelings that at present occupy my breast, may be declaimed against by phlegmatic Souls incapable of loving with ardour, and Such I despise;; men, not destitute of tenderness, would be Sensible of the anxiety I endure — with me affirm, that fear, diffidence, and solicitude, can never be ab stradted from a fervent passion.
Be as expeditious as you can (consistently with the charge I have given you) in your answer.
If you think Lady julia’s heart is as
much
m
 . 147
much mine as my friends say, tell het I conjure her, by those vows she uttered at windsor, to abandon her project— — hold no communication with my father. — If she proceeds in her intention, never shall she, or you, again behold
9
\
The miserable
Osmond.
t0 Lord Osmond.
Bath:
FFREDERICK came immediately to
Windsor on his arrival in England,
my dear Ofmond, with your letter -- -- -1
knew how unnecessary your fears of Lady Julia were; however, obeyed your command, and watched each turn of her Soul. — I Swear to you, by everything Sacred, I believe her heart is wholly yours. In all her conversations with me, she professed
H 2 the
148 M ASCLUERADES; OR,
the warmest attachment. Her eyes ac knowleged Satisfaction when you were our Subject; and frequently have I Seen them deluged in tears at a retrosped of what you endured on her account. I told her of your impatience under So long an absence. 1 urged her to allow me to recall you; and added, if she would accompany us to this city, it would be very easy for you to meet often, without the knowledge of any but a few friends, devoted to her and your interest, and your return might be kept Secref. She started at the mention; and Said, she apprehended she must be Sunk considerably in my opinion, else I would not name to her a proposal So highly derogatory to honour and to duty. I durst not press it further; and let me assure you, this first of women proves herself more deserv ing of you by an adherence to Such strict principles, than you do of her by condemning her prudence, and arraigning her love.
Mortimer (whom I thought it necessary to consult, though in the height of your frenzy you forgot that etiquette was unwilling that Lady Julia should know of his
having
 . 149
having informed you of her intention of writing to your father. He told me, that Lady Mortimer and himself had almost: dissuaded her from it : I theretm*e Suppressed your message to her, and beg of you to consider, were she to address him in the style you dread, how little effect it would produce— — can alter his pur pose. Rest Satisfied then, dear Olshond; and let your Sweet innocent mistress adl as she thinks proper.
If you with for a testimony of her affection, I Will give you a painful one — Her health is impaired from the continual anxiety of her mind — the roses are fading
on her cheeks — she grows thin -- -- -- but never,
never did I See So divine an invalid! There is Something incxpreshbly touching in her appearance, that, added to her native beauty, which it is beyond the power of sickness to destroy, renders it almost ini poshble to gaze on her, without fancying her an inhabitant of a higher world, who has condescended to pass a little while on this gross earth.
I really cannot perceive the objection to your coming over, or why you should be
H 3 confined
0
#
150 MAS Q_U ERADES; o r,
confined to pass your time So tedioussy in Switzerland. For many reasons I would have you return; but let it be incog. " I will meet you at whatever seaport in this kingdom you chuse to land. Our stay in this place shall depend on you. If you dioike Bath, Louisa, your old friend Lord Beaumont, and I, will accompany you to Bagshot, where I believe you may remain
private as long as you please. 1 know
you will prefer being in London; but there, your arrival cannot, I am afraid, be kept Secret — you vrill not step out of the door without beholding Some acquaintance; and, should the pemberton’s learn it, they would be doubly Solicitous with Lady Julia to become suffolk’s bride.
i.ady Pemberton goes up to town, I
hear, in a fortnight, for the winter; the mortimer’s will shortly follow with your Julia. — The hour is nigh for the amiable caroline’s commencing a mother. Heaven Spare her to her worthy husband!! Seems more apprehensive on the occasion than she does.
Lady Julia will, on her arrival, be taken home to Portman square; So that you
must
t
  ii
must not flatter yourself with an idea oi Seeing her, at least for Some time.
'We left Windfbr a few days ago, after Spending a month there, in the pleasantest way imaginable. Westbrook informed you of his happiness. the very morning on which he was united to Emily. I think he told me So. — He is a generous youth; and she is thoroughly amiable. They are well matched, and, I am Satisfied, will do honour to the nuptial state.
You have already heard, my dear of mond, that the Duke of Westmoreland means once more to assume connubial fetters. His impatience for the ceremony to be over shows much gallantry on his fide : however, Henrietta, with ft plead ing tenderness, prevailed on Lord Davenport to postpone the marriage for two months, promising by the expiration of that time to conquer her aversion to So unequal an alliance. -- May they be mutual
plagues to each other! and may the mighty powers of Doflors Commons shortly put asunder the ridiculous pair that the parson will yoke together!
H 4 Losh
15* MAS (LU E R A D £ S; o R,
lose no time in Saying whether you will come over, and where I shall meet you?
I am, my dearest osmond,
«
Your most faithful
Charles Montague
^0 Lady Louisa Montague,
jvmdfor,
%
A Letter I received yesterday from Almeria
informs me of a circumstance which will Surprise you.
"She consented about ten days ago to take an airing with Lady Percival in her phaeton. They chose to visit Dover, and on entering the town someth ing frightened the horses. Lady Percival had not power over them — they Set off in a full gallop through the narrow abominable streets of that place, and would certainly, at the
next
V
 . 153
next turning, have overset the vehicle, and deprived them both of life, had not Providence intervened.
A Gentleman from the window of an inn Saw the Situation they were in. He flew after the carriage, attended by a Servant. They both Seemed regardless of their Safety; and, instead of Suffering the apprehension of being trodden to pieces by the horses, to operate on them, as it had done on the many in the streets, who were terrified only at their own danger, and flying they Scarcely knew whither to avoid it, rushed forwards on each fide. Seized the reins, and obliged the animals to slacken their Speed, till others, finding they ran little or no rilk, ventured to approach, and entirely stopped them. al meria fainted, and Lady Percival was almost wild with horror. He lifted my sister out of the phaeton, whilst his Servant did the Same with Lady Percival. By that time their attendants came up, and helped to convey them to the inn the humane stranger had just quitted. When they recovered, they begged to know to whom
H 5 they
154' MAS QUE R A D E S; or,
they were So much obliged? guess their astonishment at hearing this answer :
“I am called Clermont -- -- It is not an
hour since I Set my foot on British ground. I shall estem the moment of my arrival the luckiest of my life, as it brought me time enough to assist two Such Ladies. I am going immediately to London, where, if I can do you any Service,, I shall be extremely happy in the execution of it.”
They feared that his business might be destrudive to their joint wish of introducing him at Nevill, to a number of friends, who would be anxious to make him their acknowledgments for the obligation he had laid them under; but entreated, if he could Spare them a little of his time, that he would favour them with his company to the Duke of Northing' ton’s. At the mention of his title he looked Surprised, and Said, he presumed he had the honour of Speaking to part of Lord pemberton’s family. Lady Percival and ray sister direfuy made themselves known, and repeated their request, to which he politely assented. A chaise was
ordered
 . 155,
ordered for the Ladies, and Lord Clermont, in Spite of their remonstrances to the contrary, ascended the phaeton, and escorred them back to Nevill, where he staid as long as my mother and her family did, and then made one in the party up to town. They arrived there two days ago. I rejoice with you, my dear louisa, on Lord clermont’s return; a circumstance you have a great while been impatient for, and which, I am Sure, will make you very happy. — Almeria describes him to be very lively. She Says he resembles. you strongly. You will Soon See him at Bath.
Another piece of news my sister’s letter contains, that makes me not a little glad. Mr. Lenox is married — An Italian Lady was captivated with him, and contrived to make him Sensible of it. He discovered that she was of Some family, very rich, and well accomplished. She had been married young, from mercenary views, to a man she dissiked. At the end of four years he died, and she found herself at liberty to chuse an object more agreeable to Her inclination than the one she had been compelled to give her hand to; Mr.,
H 6 Henox,,
/
156 M A S (LU E R A D E S or,
Lenox, she thought, calculated to make her happy, and him she elected. Lord Clermont Spent an evening with them just before he left Rome, and Says they Seemed very 'well pleased with each other. She is desirous of visiting England, and they are to come over next Spring.
My Lord Mortimer heard last week from Mr. Norton He was on his way ■ to Barege — May Heaven reward his benevolent heart by granting all sts wishes! I am convinced it cannot form any, but such as do honour to human nature.
to rnorrow, my excellent friend, I leave windsor — perhaps for ever! Should any accident happen to my dearest Sister, which of her family will bear to look at this Sweet place! I am Sure I shall not
-- -- -- But the Subject affects me too
nearly!
My brother and Sophia are fixed in grafton street. Sir James Westbrook has taken a house in St. james’s Place. When may we expect to See you in Cum berland street? I have been So accustomed of late to your Society, that I bear the
loss of it worse than ever I did. We are
all
 57
all to dine in Portman square tomorrow, and at night I shall take leave of my pre sent amiable companions, with no Small share of regret.
Dear louisa, with what disagreeable re fledlions do I look forward to the manner in which the ensuing five or six months will be Spent! — Now begins the hurry ad bustle of modern high life — Last winter
-- -- ah, my Lord osinond! -- -- -- -- -- But
how unavailing are regrets! — — Every one will be as happy this feason as they were the last, excepting your Julia!
Ornit not, dear louisa, my grateful remembrances to Lord and Lady Arne. Tell them I should be a most unworthy creature, did I not love them tenderly. present my respe(sts to Lord Beaumont; and assure Sir Charles, that he possesses, in
a high degree, the friendship of
*
Your
#
Julia Herbert.
sttf
✓
158 MAS CLUE R A D E S; or,
/
<
Sir Charles Montague,,
Berne.
Yes, I will go over — What daggers have you
planted in my heart! — My julia’s health declining, and I not near her !' — Oh, Montague, should I lose her — should death, the meagre fiend, rob me of all I hold dear on earth— — — great heaven! what could equal Such a moment as that, would be to me!
I insist on your not leaving Lady louisa — I will go to Bath for a few days — you know I can depend on Souville and Charles — I will be more wary of discovery than if I had committed treason— — or Sacrilege — More than my life — the life of my Soul is at stake! — Fear not, then, that my imprudence may be accessary to suffolk’s happiness— — to reside out of London I cannot brook — I will find Some place to be concealed in, yet not debar myself from: hearing of — and perhaps Some times beholding my Julia.
I care
«
 . 15^
I care not whether or whom my father marries — all other considerations give way
to the important one of my beloved’s illness.
i shall Soon follow this. — Farewell, and think me always
Your sincere friend,
Osmond
s
s *
$
ISO Lady Julia Herbert.
batl
Many thanks for your welcome tidings of my brother’s arrival! He certainly means to Surprise me, or is most intolerably lazy •, for I have neither heard from, nor Seen him. It adds to the joy his return gives me, that he was So lucky as to be Serviceable to Alnieria and Lady per cival
Julia,
io M ASCLUERADES; or,
Julia, I well knew, that, if Lenox did not rharry you, he would unite himself only to one with a great fortune. Thank heaven you escaped him!
A gentleman came to Bath last night whom Sir Charles has been Some time acquainted with. His name is Sedley. He Saw Lord osmond at Berne, and was com mishoned by him to charge Sir Charles to plead with you to allow him to return. The only motive he has for desiring it, is to see you — if that point cannot be obtained, he may as well remain in Switzerland. He is So completely wretched at the painful Separation he endures, that it is impossible he can Support it long; and nothing but the fear of incurring your displeasure, hinders his immediate appearance in England, to Supplicate your compashon for what he Suffers from the cruel instexibility of your relations, and to persuade you to
become his. -- -- Do, dear Julia, relax a
little of your Severity; recall the unhappy exile, and consent to See him. I wait your Speedy answer; for Mr. Sedley is all eager ness to trailsmit the ecstatic news of your
granting this request to bis friend. — Can
Sedley
wilat YOU WILL. ii
Sedley be more anxious for osrnond’s felicity than Julia? Put the question to your heart, and by your reply I shall judge of its Situation.
You must permit me to mention the dis agreeable name of Charlotte Pelham, whom 1 found with her mother at this place when 1 came down. You will shudder at my telling you that she has rendered herself an object of contempt by her familiarity with a married man. His wife is much pitied : she is reckoned amiable and handsome; and they were remarkably happy, till this ill-fated girl came across them. She was taken with, Mr. belmont’s figure and address, which are elegant enough. She Soon forgot how far Superior were those charms in Lord ositiond; and, by a thousand wiles, known only to the unprincipled of our Sex, engaged his attention, and robbed poor Mrs. Belmont of a heart that had been herj for many years. They are now Separated. He has taken Charlotte home to his house, and, bidding defiance to all shame, ' goes into public with her hanging on his arm — whilst she demonstrates more tenderness in her carriage towards him, than would be
war
162
warrantable before spectators, were she actually connected to him in an honourable way. Mrs. Belmont is gone to her mother, who resides in Devonshire. Mrs. Pelham has left Bath. Happily for her, she has very little feeling, else Such a stroke would for ever ruin her peace. If anything can awaken Mr. Belmont from the shocking error he is in, I should think the public Scorn he meets, must do it. No one acknowledges his acquaintance: even men, whose morals may, in fast, be on the Same foot with his, by the example Set them in others, are deterred from admitting of his Society. This would be well, my dear Julia, were it to continue; but a very few months will cast the shade of night over Mr. Belmont's crime — people will be tired of the distance they now preserve— — company will be less avoided' — and by degrees once more be Sought after.
I am Sorry to find, by a letter from Lady westbrook, that she and Sir James mean, in a few weeks, to go into Kent, with Lady Caroline Denley, for a couple of months. Pray tell them it is very strange they should think of quitting London,
when
 . 163
when every creature else is stocking to it. We shall go up in a fortnight.
Adieu, my dearest Julia! Lord and Lady Arne assure you they regard you more than you can do them. Lord Beaumont professes himself your warm admirer; and Sir Charles embraces you with the cordiality of a sincere friend. I am,
i
Much yours,
Louisa Montague..
y
^0 Lady Louisa Montague.'
Portman Square.
Mr. Sedley must be a very particular
friend indeed of Lord osmond and Sir Charles, my dear Louisa, if the former could entrust him with a message of Such importance to the latter— —! be offended
164 MAS (LXJ ekades; r,
fended at Lord osmond’s return; perhaps I wish for it as ardently as he does : but, if he only comes witfvan intention to See me, alas, it will be to no effect! I am resolved, in opposition to inclination — to the pleadings of love, not to consent to it, without Lady pemberton’s leave. I am ignorant how you will, determine, after this avowal, on the Situation of my heart. If you think meanly of my attachment to lord Ofmond, you err extremely; and I trust he will be more generous than to impute the stridncss of my ccndudl, to a cause I hold injurious to his merit, and my nature. But, dear lcuisa, let not Sir charles’s zeal in his friend’s gratification, blind your reason. Be on your guard; and in such a cafe retain an opinion of your own. Allow me to ash, were you still louisa Sydney, would you incite me to See clandestinely an object 1 have vowed never to behold without a parent’s Sandfion? I am Sure you would not. I will persevere in my resolution— — in Spite of what this wretched heart endures, commission you in turn to tell Mr. Sedley, that, though Lord osmond’s felicity is estimated by me far more than ic
can
  165
can be by him, I dare not give life to it at the expense of duty and of honour. Tell him, also, that, by my steady adherence to the promise I have made a mother, he will judge how inviolate I keep the one I made to his friend.
N
You must perceive what little room I have to hope that Lady Pemberton would grant me permission to See Lord osmond, was I to ask it, when I inform you, that she has gone So far, as to command me to give up all thoughts of him on pain of her displeasure -- There is no obeying impossibilities.
Give up all thoughts of marrying him I do; but to avoid refledl ihg on his virtues — on his amiable manners — on the tenderness he feels for your unhappy Julia, is not in my power. No, my dear louisa, nothing can erase his image from my heart — nothing can ever make me love him less. Is it not wonderful, that my mother, So kind in every other instance, should be So cruel in this most essential one? On my arrival in town, she started at the alteration in my looks — she was Sensibly afflicted at it, and the next day a train of medical professors attended in Portman
Square
i66
Square, pursuant to her desire. They felt my pulse — examined my countenance — a fide of paper was Scratched over— — promised to restore me shortly to health — received their sees, and departed. A bafket full of nauseous medicines were arranged in my apartment; I Swallowed them. One
of the faculty, Doctor F -- -, went through
the Same ceremony every Succeeding day; and the like number of bitter potions have passed my lips — yet I find myself as far from being recovered, as when the physicians first Settled me on their lists of patients. They recommend dissipation — dif fipadion my thoughts be dishpated
from my Ofmond! I should despise myself, if they could — but it would be as easy to divert the needle from its faithful direction, as to withdraw his loved form from my idea.
I had not been two days in town, before the Duke of Suffolk was ushered into the room where I savat work with my mother, Sophia, and Almeria. My dear louisa, how was I shocked at his appearance! I hastily arose, and retired to my dreshng room. My mother followed me Soon after,
and chid me for doing So. She questioned
me
I
*
W H A T Y O U W I L L 167
me about the tears she Saw I had been shedding. I Said, I thought I was unkindly treated, in being obliged to See a man So hateful to my imagination. Lady Pemberton replied, that it would be hard indeed, my family should be under a necessity of giving up a friend, because it pleased my capricious fancy to take a distike to him. I was silent, well knowing that what I should Say, would make my mother still more angry. She left me, and I composed my Spirits in the best manner I was able.
About a week ago we were one evening at my brother’s. Several persons were present. The Duke of Suffolk came in — I could not avoid him. He addressed me with as much ease, as if he had never given me reafost for the least disturbance. I curtsied to him, but paid little attention to the compliments he uttered. He drew a chair near mine, and was preparing, I believe, to reproach me for flying him as I had done, when Sir James Westbrook, who was at cards, exclaimed, “Lady Julia, you promised to hold my cards; will you take them now ?’* I readily assented, as I knew westbrook’s good-natured motive. He leaned over my
chair
f
e68 M A S Q, U E R A D E S; or,
chair all the time I played, and, though Suffolk was at my side, did not afford him a moment to Speak to me. My brother could Scarcely refrain ffrom passion. He took Sir James up very shortly once or twice; but my considerate friend bestowed no attention to wshat he Said.
The next day the Duke dined with us. I was as reserved as possible towards him, and, after the cloth was removed, rose from table, ordered my chair, and went to Lady Mortimer, with whom I Sat till eleven o*clock. On my return home, I Saw that my mother was much dispieafed with me.
Three nights since we'were at Lady per civass assembly. The rooms were full. As I passed a Sofa on which two or three persons were stated. Some one Seized my hand, and kissed it. I hastily withdrew it; and, casting my eyes on the object who had been thus presuming, discovered it to be no other than Suffolk. In a few minutes after, he followed me to another apartment. He Seemed eager to embrace the opportunity that then offered to plead his passion. From the situation I was unluckily placed in, I perceived no probability of escaping the
odious
X '
W H A T Y O U W I L L 169
odious topic, and made up my mind ta answer him in a way that must have distressed him, had he an atom of humanity. Lord Budenall obscrved my embarrassment; and. Surmounting the obstacles that confined me prisoner to the Duke, came up to me.
“Lady Julia, ” cried he, “I know you hate teie a tftei. You never allowed me any, when I had a right to put in my claim to your heart; and I am Sure you are not less reludbant to a private conference with the Duke of Suffolk, who must be well informed that it is not now to be dis posed of.”
“Lord Budenall, ” replied the Duke, in a very impatient tone, “I cannot bear trifling at present— — do I comprehend your meaning.”
“Really, my Lord, ” answered Budenall, “I am ignorant of the disposition of your grace’s temper at this instant; nor is there a necessity for my studying it. My mean ing is this: your Grace and J are’alike unfortunate — Lady Julia cannot bestow her affections on either of us — she is attached to a man every way worthy of her. Since
VOL.IV, i - laaj
«
lyo
I am not So happy as to gain her love, I will aspire to her friendship. Let us, my Lord, mutually endeavour to afford her all the peace we can. It is not in our power to give her to the objedf of her choice; but it is in our power to refrain from molesting her by declarations that must displease her.” “And do you suppose, ” cried the Duke, that I will resign my hopes in favour of a villain
“What an expression I” exclaimed bu denall: “whom can your Grace distinguish with that epithet
The cursed, dissembling osmond !” Lord Budenali offered me his hand —
“Lady Julia, ” Said he, “allow me to lead you from one, who dares to insult you, by Speaking thus of the man heaven has allotted for your partner. 1 will Supply his place in this instance, and protect your delicate feelings from further outrage — And let me warn you, my Lord Duke, to be cautious in future before me, of joining Such vile words to a name 1 respedt and esteem. osmond is my friend; and to defend him I am always ready.”
Suffolk Snatched my hand from Lord
Budenali^
 . lyi
Budenal), and Swore he should not carry me from him in Such triumph. He uttered Something of vengeance on Budenall.
“Have a care 1” exclaimed the other very coolly I may do the work more ef fcdually than the Marquis did. I have not motives, which he had, to adl merely on the defensive.' — But be less turbulent, my Lord. Are you for ever to be a Source of misery to Lady Julia — always to make her the Subject of public attention? — You can never compensate for thus terrifying her!
He led me back to the room I had quitted; and, placing himself near me, apologised for his warmth. I was really frightened — another rencontre I dreaded — and had much reason to apprehend would be the con scquence of this quarrel. The Duke of Suffolk Spoke with a loud voice. I never saw mortal in Such a rage. How hideous did it render his features! Many gentlemen crowded about us, and heard the greatest part of the conversation. I was almost petrified, and incapable of opening my lips.
Some time after the Duke entered the apartment where we were, which was not
12 less
JJ2
less full of company than the others. Seve. ral persons followed, whose curiosity no ‘ doubt made them wish for a similar Scene. He approached me — begged me to pardon his violence, which he was penitent for. I bowed to him, but answered nor. He turned to Lord Budenall, and entreated him to cxcuse the offence he had given him. Budenall replied in a polite, though rather distant manner — however, my fears of their meeting in a hostile way were quieted. My brother, I suppose, had advised his friend to this mode of conduct; for suf fpik’s haughty Spirit but ill brooks humiliation.
• 1 7
As Soon as we got into the coach to return home, Almeria condemned the duke’s rasii behaviour in warm terms. Lady Pemberton was at cards at the time, and could only hear a confused murmur of what had passed, which ran through the apartments very expeditiousiy. She desired to have the particulars — Almeria gave thera^ My mother Said Lord Budenall was very much, jn fault— — he hid no right to irritate Suffolk by mentioning Lord Ofmond.
- y Indeed, Madam, ” cried 1, “I had
best
Or " '
%
 . lys
best remain always at home — to do So agrees with my inclination. When I am abroad, if Lord osmortd chances to be talked of, I must endure ill treatment from the Duke — however, it cannot fail drawing contempt on himself from many. It is true, he has held me up to the public in colours not much to my credit. I fear, I am regarded as a vain, dangerous girl, who delights in fomenting quarrels, and glories in occasioning bloodshed.’" — —
Almeria declared Such censure would be unreasonable : that it could not be supposed I should marry the Duke, to prevent his fighting with every man who Spoke to me.
“One good attends these dispntes, ” Said I; they convince the world that be is obnoxious to me, else there would be no neceshty for his giving rise to them.*’
Lady Pemberton, in an angry tone, ashed Almeria, if she had been brought over to ofmond’s party? “I am of no party.
Madam, ” replied she: “I wish my sister happy; and will confess to your Ladyship, that of late I have thought Suffolk wants delicacy to make her so ^buc I by no '
1 3 means
/
174
means conclude that a Son of westmorland’s can do it.”
My mother exciised Suffolk, and Said she would reproach him for the disturbance he had caused the first time they met.
“I beg you will not. Madam, ” exclaimed I: “to what purpose.? If my family, thinks ssightly of Such insolence, I assure you 1 can bear it patiently — he will not long have it at his option to exercise it.”
The carriage stopped, and the discourse ended.
Yesterday morning, whilst we were at breakfast, Suffolk and Lord Pemberton came in. When the things were removed, I was retiring to my closet — my brother followed and led me back.
“Upon my Soul, Julia, you shall stay.” Why, my Lord ?”
“You must hear Suffolk; ” and he held my hands to detain me.
“Do not oblige rne to contradict you peremptorily !”
“That you must not do, Julia, ” cried Lady Pemberton; “for I insist that you stay.”
I C urt
/
 . 175
I curtsied to her, and resumed my Seat. They left me with the Duke, who placed himself near me. He attempted to take my hand — I with held it from his touch in a manner that evinced my displeafure, and put him out of countenance. However, I was condemned to listen to the re petition of a Subject, which had but too osten created much uneasincss in my breast.
I told him that it was impossible for any man of Sensibility topersevere in addreshng a woman, who had on every occasion given him the strongest testimony of her disapprobation. If his Grace really felt the disinterested love he professed, he would aft very differently — he would pay a little regard to my happiness, and cease to disturb it by a continuance of assiduities that were highly disgustful. I Said, I should be Sorry to treat him unpolitely; but, as I had more than once declared my inability to reward his passion, and he still presented me with the theme, I would tell him very plainly that my heart was actually devoted to another, and that it was my fixed determination never to marry any but my Lord
I 4 osmond —
1^6 M ASQ.U.DRAUES; or,
osmond; apiece of information that I hoped his good sense would consider rightly of, and free me from further importunity. He Seemed ready to By out. He got up with much emotion, walked hastily to the window, and as hastily returned to his seat — ^ his countenance was Dale with anger.
It is in vain, my Lord, ” cried I, “to alter my resolution — your rage cannot make me give him up I — whilst I have life, he will never be less dear to me.”
My brother came in, and the Duke ('as if he wished to draw on me his displeasure) repeated what I had Said. Then, Julia, ” exclaimed Lord Pemberton, “you shall never marry !”
“lam well apprized of that, my Lord, ” replied I: “but since I am debarred of the man I love, I beg I may not be tormented by the man I am averse to. cbserve, my Lord Duke, you have my full answer. presume not to mention this topic to me again; but avoid me as studiousty as I will
VO LI
He' reproached me for my cruelty — de pnanded if I had no pity for his Sufferings f
— and what
YOU WILL. 177
— and appealed to my brother whether he had not demonstrated his attachment by the most convincing proofs ^
“Your Grace must allow me to Say, ’* cried I, on that head, you had best be silent. The methods you used to demonstrate it, are dreadful to my imagination. You Sought the destrudlion of Lord osmond — you exposed my charatster to the censiure of illiberal people, by making me the occasion of your duel — in all companies you render me the Subject of distention, and the innocent disturber of harmony — these are the only proofs you have given of your attachment, my Lord — and they had better never be revived! — In your presence, that you may be assured I am thoroughly in earnest, I must desire my brother to trouble me no further respedting you, lest I might be tempted to lament my too Scrupulous adherence to his will. The Sad reward I meet, may create Some regrets in my breast, for having paid So high a regard to duty; and it is not improbable, but that I shall wish myself away from my family, sheltered in the protection of him who prefers my happiness to his own.”
I 5 Tour
lys
Tour too scrupulous adherence to my wtll.^
Julia r
“Yes, my Lord — in not consenting to measures which would have prevented my being So unkindly persecuted.”
My brother Seemed thunderstruck with what I had Said; and, far from discovering any wrath, which I expected, appeared Softened by the tears I could not refrain from shedding. — I was going up to my a partment, when I met Lady Pemberton. She desired me to return; and, after hearing a very fair relation from Lord Pemberton of sll that 1 had Said, laid her commands on me (as I have already told you) to banish Lord osmond from my thoughts. The Duke looked transported; and hoped. I would pardon him for Swearing that he would not take my refusal — but that the exulting osmond should have his heart’s blood ere he obtained me. My countenance, I believe, was expreshve of the contempt I held him in. I replied not, but left the room.
My brother is Suddenly called into Hertfordshire on business that will detain him there a fortnight. He leaves town tomorrow
/
YOU WILL. 179
*
row. In his absence, I will endeavour to prevail on my mother to put a period to suffolk’s addresses — Lord Pemberton influences her too much. Surely, louisa, it will be but just to grant my desire, since she has nothing to reproach me with in my conduct towards Lord osmond!
I cannot describe my concern for the unhappy Charlotte pelham’s connexions. I never thought her principles So bad. All the malice I bear her is to wish she may Soon be Sensible of her guilt, and make all the atonement in her power, by restoring to the unfortunate woman she has injured Mr. belmont’s affections. — —
This instant we are informed that my dearest Caroline is taken ill — Lady Pemberton is hurrying to her — I can write no more — I can onlyimplore the Almighty, of ' his infinite mercy, to Spare her to us — Oh, mv admirable Caroline!
* ^
After having put a negative on your request, I almost tremble for the Sat of my poor setter — however, the last paragraph
1 6 shall
#
1
io masq^ueradesj or,
shall protect it from becoming the vidlioi of your displeasure, for I think you will
peruse it with joy -- Lady Pemberton has
just Sent to acquaint Almeria and me, that my Sister is Safe, and the mother of a sine boy.
I an., dear louisa,
Most affectionately yours,
S, Julia Herbert
/
Lady dowager^emb'e.k'iort^
The morning on which I left London,
my dear Madam, Lord Clermont all ed u pon me. I was Surprised at So early a visit, and yet more at the embarrassed air he wore. After Some little hesitation,
he avowed a passion for Almeria > and desired
I
 . 183
sired to know whether he had my approbation to propose to your Ladyship for her? i told him that he had, and hinted a Supposition that he was assured of being well received by my sister, previous to his taking Such a step. He answered, that he had addressed her, and, though not absolutely accepted as a lover, he flattered himself that under your Sandlion he might have hopes of conciliating her affections. He Spoke to me of a Settlement which was noble; and added, that, when I returned, his rental should be laid open for my in fpection. If I thought his fortune admitted of a more ample provision for Almeria than he had mentioned, he would most readily agree to make any addition I pleas ed.
I replied that the Settlement he offered was insinitely beyond what her fortune entitled us to expect— — interrupted mei
do nor, my Lord, regard her fortune I wish to provide for her as my wife !’*
1 admired his generosity — his Candour 5 but begged him to be persuaded, we were pot kss liberal in our notions, and should
Set
V
l  .
Set great limits to his disinterested proposal.
I like him much — his morals are good. So is his temper. — He is Sensible, lively, elegant, and well descended. I do not See one objection to him — but your Ladyship and Almeria can best determine, whether he is to be encouraged or not.
Would to God there was a probability of julia’s being difposed of to the man we both recommend to her !- — It is in vain to hope for it! — So invincible an aversion as she has to him, never before prepossessed the heart of woman! — I really feel most Sensibly her melancholy situation, be it ow ing to perverseness, or whatever motive. The consequence I fear will be painful, and we shall Soon have her loss to deplore. r an amiable, charming girl, to be Suddenly Snatched from connexions equally and tenderly attached to her, and who have yet the power to ward off So fatal a calamity, — calls for many Serious ressciftions — Had Westmoreland less pride — would he Seek the alliance for his Son, and receive Julia as a favour from our hands — why we
might
 . i8j
might be prevailed upon to give her to osmond, since it is plain her happiness depends entirely upon him. — Ten thousand daggers are planted in my breast, when I look forward to the misery we shall be overwhelmed in by her death; yet the diabolical Westmoreland is So haughty— — overbearing — it is madness to entertain a notion of his doing what alone could make her wise to the man she loves!
I Spent the evening prior to my leaving town tete-a-tete with Mortimer, and was infinitely delighted at hearing from him many instances of julia’s conduct,, Separated from us, and wholly at her own difposal,) that excited my admiration of her probity — her fortitude, and her sense of duty. I will communicate them to you when I have the honour of Seeing you. Mortimer, Caroline, and Sir Charles Montague, you will deem wrong in many parts of my recital — yet, as their behaviour was the engine which now discovers Julia in the brilliant light she stands, I must bespeak your ladyship’s indulgence towards them.
I told Suffolk he would do well to drop
his
%
1§4 MASCIUERADES; ob,
*
I
his Suit for a while, as Julia is really in a condition which requires that her mind should be kept composed; and, if we passively admitted of its being made otherwise, the imputation of barbarity would very justly rest with us. He was displeased with me, and declared he was incapable of silence on a topic So interesting to him. This evinces a cruel selfishness I thought remote from his nature. However, his situation demands many allowances; and I am per suaded, could she be prevailed on to marry him, he would render her felicity complete. We cannot Sufficiently regret her ever Seeing osmond — still he is a man, that, ab stratsted from prejudice, no one can find a blemish in! — His destiny is unhappy — the rigour with which he is treated by his vile father, merits compassion. I forgive the trouble he has occasioned us, when I resse^l how Severely he has Suffered from it, in every point.
I hope Caroline and her little one go on well! Farewell, my dear Madam. I shall be kept here a week or ten days longer than I expected, which by no means accords
¥
 . 1s5
cords with my inclination. Embrace your coterie for your ladyship’s
Most respe(stfully affefuonate
And devoted Servant
Pemberton
9
%
To Lady Westbrook.
«
Portman square.
YOU indulged tile greatly, my amiable
friend, when you desired me to write to you frequently. Your tenderness I have often experienced your Sympathy has as often Soothed my Spirits, when they have been Sadly agitated — and the interest you So kindly take in all that concerns me, excites every Sentiment of gratitude, and entitles you to my full confidence. I momently
lament
i86
lament your departure from London; but I admire the motive which carried you and Sir James from the gay Scenes that it now exhibits. It must have been very melancholy for Lady Caroline to have passed two tedious months in the country at this dreary season, deprived of her Sweet companion, whose loss she could not have Supplied. Pray tell her that I entreat she may not Suffer the disagreeable business which called her away, to detain her in Kent beyond the limited time.
You will no doubt remember, my dear Lady Westbrook, a wish 1 more than once expressed in your prestnce to Caroline, of makingthedukeof Westmoreland a promise, that I thought would be to the advantage of Lord Ofmond. You both endeavoured to dissuade me from Such a promise: I Saw it was in vain to contend the matter, and dropped it for the present. On my arrival in London, I found my mother and Lord Pemberton as inflexibly determined as ever to have no alliance with the Marquis — She forbade me to think more of him. I found the time approaching fast for the duke’s So • lernhizing a marriage, that was to be de
strudive
 . 187
strikstive to my osmond’s future hopes, - — I Sound (by far the least painful part) that I was hastening to the grave. Again 1 consulted Caroline, and begged, if she could allege any good reason, why I should not execute my Scheme, to do it without hesitation. She had none to offer that did not appear futile — still by Some method or other, she detained me from adopting the necessary measures much longer than I liked. A few days ago I formed my resolution — I considered every point deliberately — and, after revolving in my mind the steps proper to be taken, I went to my mother, and told her what I meditated doing. She was astonished at the courage of Such a proceeding, but Seemed at a loss how to answer me.
Your Ladyship, *’ cried I, “cannot let your aversion arrive at So great a length, as to wish that Lord osmond should be rendered unfortune in each sense that wretchedness can approach him, on my account. By vowing to the Duke never to marry his Son, the only colour of displea sure he has against him, must be removed — His Grace will perhaps break off his own
match —
l88 masq^tj TRADES j or,
match — Lord osmond will be restored to his just expedtations ^your Ladyship and my brother will be Satisfied that I have put it out of my own power to become the wife of a man you both hold in So much abhorrence — and I shall be more at rest in the restedlion of not having injured him in every respedt.” My mother desired I would let her See the letter before it was Sent. I well knew the motive — she was apprehensive I should hurt the family pride by using too humiliating terms. I wrote as follows:
To the Puke of Westmoreland.
My Lord,
IT is with every Sentiment of disgust that the world beholds your treatment of Lord osmond — It is with every emotion of grief I in particular am constrained to view Such unparalleled inhumanity, since I have been, in a chief measure, the innocent cause of its exertion on an amiable and noble heart.
I love
 . 189
I love Lord osmond, my Lord — my friends disapprove of his alliance — Lord osmond returns perhaps too warmly the tenderness I feel. — You have expressed your hatred to Such a connedlion — you have driven him from your sight, and withdrawn from him the bleshngs of a father — you Swear to deprive him of his native inheritance, and all because he has dared to love! — What aggravates the Sault — he has presumed to elc(51: an objedi: out of a family that your Grace (allow me to think from no just cause) has taken an aversion to
-- -- Love, my Lord, is involuntary. Had
he married indeed without your consent, you might have had a shade of reason for Such a conduct; but, alas! you cannot even allege that offence, to excuse a want of paternal feeling.
ilecal the Marquis to your arms, my Lord — restore him to the favour of your Smiles — difpoffess him not of the opulent fortune his birth and his merit claim — Grant me a promise to this cffedl, and your Grace shall receive from me in return a Solemn abjuration of my hopes — I will vow never to wed hiin without the mutual approbation
j90
C '
%
probation of his, and of my family — I will vow to become a voluntary Sacrifice for his benefit.
Believe me, my Lord, Such a mode of acting will re instate you in the good opinion .of mankind, will confirm to you the duty and affection of Lord osmond — will, above all, reconcile you to your own heart, which Surely is the first of motives — and will for ever oblige,
My Lord,
I,
Your grace’s Most obedient.
Humble Servant,
f •
, Julia Herbert.
«
When I had finished my letter, I carried it to Lady Pemberton. She perused it two or three times; then Said, she wished 1 would make my mind easy, and postpone sending of it till my brother came to town.
I should
 . 191
4
1 should not wait long, as she expeited him in two or three days. I could do nothing but acquiesce, though inwahlyreluist anr, that he was to be didlator on the occasion; judging of the probability there was from thence, of its not being Sent at all. Lord Pemberton did not arrive in London before last night, and this morning breakfasted with us. My mother gave him the letter. After reading it attentively, he astced whether 1 really meant to adt up to the contents of it I replied, most undoubtedly I should.
“Then, ” cried my Lord, “if it will give you the least satisfaction that Westmoreland should receive it, let it be disoatch
• • • ^
ed to him immediately. Who knows. Madam, ” addressing my mother, “what ef fe6t it may produce !”
I was astonished — 1 knew not what my brother could suppose. Lady Pemberton was silent. The Servant who carried the letter to grosvenor square, found his Grace, at home; and, after being detained half an hour, was told, “It required no an swer.” My brother had waited the foot iiian^s return: he bore this piece of unpo
liteness
tqj, MAS CLU eradesj or,
liteness with more moderation than I could have expecsted — he looked at me, I thought, with com '’shon.
“Julia may yet have an ansvver, ” cried Lady Pemberton; “he requires time to deliberate“
“don’t believe she will. Madam, ” replied my brother. Westmoreland is a contemptible wretch, and you should despise him, Julia. You have a Specimen of the insolence, with which you would have been treated, had you become his daughter.”
“I should not have been in his power, my Lord; and I am well assured osmond is incapable of treating any creature ill.”
“Why faith I fancy So too — but encourage not a hope of him: it will avail nothing.” Here the Subject rested.
Lady Mortimer is once more at liberty to go abroad : however, sheuses that privilege with moderation. My mother this night receives masses, previous to their appearance at almack’s. — No entreaties could prevail on Caroline to come to us. Her Lord is as domestic as she is. They are equally delighted with their Son, and Seem tb: happiest people in the world.
I will
>
#
 . 193
I will keep my letter open two or three days, hoping in that time the Duke of Westmoreland will answer my request, and I may be able to acquaint you of the success of my projet.
$
ie * * ♦ *

Thursday Morning.
Between ten and eleven last night, our apartments were thronged — I was conversing with Sir Charles Montague, when one in a hermit’s dress approached me, and in a feigned voice, which 1 could not once catch off its guard, chid me for Suffering my heart to be So much attached to the alluring pleasures of the town, I heard him a longtime without interrupting’ him: he painted the frivolity of Such amusements, and bad me strive to wean myself from them.
“Your opinion of me is erroneous, my good father, ” exclaimed I: “Such pleasures as you call alluring, I despise.”
He shook his head......
“Can you be really sincere? — Some happy fellow then engages you to meet
yol. IV K him
194 M A S QUE R A D E Sj or, him in the round of dissipation which you
tread with unwearied steps !”
I appealed to Sir Charles; but, on turning my head, perceived he had lest my side. I cleared mysclf of the accusation. — • 3 Said, that, when my mother insisted on iny attendance in public, I certainly had |iooption — — But, ^’ added 1, ‘supposing I was at my own disposal, to refrain from joining her and my sisters in the common diversions of the place, must appear very particular, and the height of assedlation in jne* What would you have me do? It is from such as dedicate themselves to holy contemplation — who view dispashonately the calamities anst lucky incidents of busy life, we children of the world may hope to learn the dd'drine of wisdom. Irstfust fne in this point how to adt.”
“Pevote your thoughts to love, fair daughter, ” replied he: “sty from this
metropolis — fly to the arms of an ardent lover, who gives up all for your Sake — who receive s no” -- -- -- -
“Tour coursei is pernicicys!” returned I: you assume that habit to be less iuspe<stcd> and to Seduce more easily. It
1
 . 195
is rfot the office of a Hermit to advise children to Swerve from duty
I was about to leave him — he cau(rht my hand — he trembled whilst he held it — “Pardon me, ’* Said he: “your notions are too rigid. The interest I take in my friend’s misfortunes, accounts for the advice I give. Did he participate of your amusements, I could not object to your enjoying the gay Scenes of London; but I fear in his absence they only dazzle your senses, and leave him but little room in your thoughts. Besides, Some stuttering, brilliant coxcomb, with nothing to recommend him but what he derives from the appendages of a handsome figure, and a high title, might make his way good to that gentle breast !’*,
“You must be an utter stranger to me by judging thus of my Sentiments; therefore I forgive you. -- But when you return
to your hermitage, learn to divest yourfelfof prejudice, and believe that it is not incompatible with the nature of a woman, to look beyond tite charms of
person and precedence in her choice of a lover, ”
K i A
I
196 MAS(^UER ADES; or,
■ A shepherd came up to us, whom I knew to be Suffolk.
Father, ” cried he, “you have not forsworn every gratification I perceive — ^ you still delight in viewing a beautiful ob jcd:. I beg of your charity to inform this fair maid, how abominable a crime it is to be cruel — convince her of the charge she lies under to Heaven, for the pangs she gives its creatures — a charge she must one day answer- -- then she will Sorely grieve for having been guilty of my death in particular.^’
Ah, my daughter, ” exclaimed the Anchorite, “beware of cruelty! This fine form, these lovely features, must all un^ -- dergo a change unheeded by you in this blooming age. beautytvas not given you for the purpose of breaking hearts I”
The mean share 1 have, father, was given me for the purpose of rewarding one lender, faithful heart, and no more — = was it
not“
“!”
Well, the person who possesses that heart, and mine also, is far— — far from Portman square just now 1 Charity could
no
 . 1^7
no longer be a commendable virtue, did it oblige me to administer to another’s happi ness with the total privation of my own. Prevail therefore on this mash to accompany you back to your Solitude — there in strucst him on the refinements that ever attend a sincere passion — - — and then he will blush at Sounding in my ears a Subject he has long known I am not at liberty to listen to, and which is repugnant to my inclinations.”
He was about to ansver, when fi deal ran into the room, and, almost bounding into the hermit’s arms, testified Such joy and transport as I am unable to describe. I was Surprised at it; and still
more at hearing the nialk exclaim, ‘‘ Poor Fidele 1” However, it corroborated my conjecture,. that the fictitious recluse was no other than Mr. Montague, who recognised
the little greyhound. -- -- -- Do you
know, I was half jealous of the aiiimal’s be stov/ing caresses on any but his Lord and myseif? I took him from the mash — I
9
kissed his head, and inveigled him not to be So eager to return to the stranger — but he regained him from my arms — he pressed
k3 Fidele
198 masclueradesj o,
Fidele to his bosom — — — he was extravagant in his fondness of him --
“How happy is this creature 1” he exclaimed.
“Happy indeed !” echoed Suffolk : “1 often wish to be Fidele.’*
“Would you not consent to part with him. Madam, ” demanded the Hermit, “to one who will idolise him on your account V
I trembled at the question --
“No, Sir, ” replied 1; ■ ‘ I would not part with him for worlds! -- -- No consideration
could tempt me to it.”
The maik Snatched my hand, and eagerly pressed it — — I was So apprehensive of losing Fidele, that the first moment which offered I took him from the Ihrmit, and • carried him to my closer, where 1 committed him to the strict care of mcur nies.
Soon after I returned, I ashed Sir Charles (whom I Saw Speak for Some minutes with the mash) to inform me of hi's name.
“It is not in my power, ” anshered he — • but 1 believe it is Sedley.”
How should Mr. Sedley know Fidele.?”
cried
 ; 19^
cried I — and I mentioned the circumstance I have just related.
“Oh, he was acquainted with your little favourite, ” replied he, “before you Saw him; and Fidele is not fine enough to aim at the appearance of losing his memory.”
In a short time the company dispersed, and I Saw no more of the hermit.
to morrow night Lady louisa Montague gives a mashed ball. Neither the mortimer’s, my brother, nor his wife, mean to be at it. Lord Pemberton is prevented by a cold, and Sophia will not go without him. I did hope for the Duke of suffolk’s absence also — but louisa tells me he in a
5, J.. i. I J,, •
locuiar manner nioteu to ner his u>.ipair of receiving an invitation; and begged t know, whether he should mtul offend he if without one fie presumed to intrude ’ himself amongst her guests? She was obliged, through politeness, to Send him a card the next day.
* * ^ js *
* * * * * ^.
, K 4 salur f’
500 MAS Q, U E RADE S; of,
Saturday,
I will recite distinctly the occurrences of last night, and leave you to determine whether I have cause or not to be perplexed
Almeria and I, habited as girls of Patinos, attended Lady Pemberton to cum berland street. We had Scarcely entered the first apartment, when two masses Seized a hand of each. One was a harlequin, whom my sister, no doubt, knew to be Lord Clermont; the other was a Scolding old woman, that was very vociferous in accusing me of coquetryl I had neither Spirits nor inclination to answer, and, taking my mother’s arm, broke from the disgust' '
• - - T r >. > L t
ifjg ngujc — riuwcvc!5 1 luimu n nnpouidie
to get free — the old woman followed, and addressed me in a manner that diverted Lady Pemberton, who ashed me why I appeared as miserable at Such a festive Scene, as if I was following a corpse? She told me the humorous mask was Mr. Bishop, and begged me to join my sister, whilst she endeavoured to find out the Duke of nor thinston, to whom she had a message from
Q ^ C
my brother. I obeyed; and discovered
Almena
s
 . 2<3t
t
Almeria standing with her partner amongst the dancers in the great room. The disagreeable old woman pursued me thither; and was growing wondersuliy troublesome, when a magician interfered, and bade Mr. Ainjley direst his wit at an object who might admire it more than I Seemed to do. He returned an answer bordering on insolence, and attempted to throw his arm round my waist. The magician caught him by the shoulder, and, giving him a Sudden whirly caused him to stagger many yards from the place’ where I stood. Mr. Ainssey (for be I suppose it was) precipitately retreated from the shouts of laughter that resounded through the apartment. We Saw no more of the hideous figure, i thanked the magician for his good-natured and timely relief.
“I perceived, by the power of my art, ’* cried he, what passed in your soul, and in your tormentor’s. You was distressed at the impertinent nonsense she uttered : she was forming a Scheme of bringing you into the fashionable paper of the morning, in a manner not greatly to your Satisfaction. There is no exertion of Skill required to silence Such old women. I st^ould be happy
K 5 ^ to
ao2
to employ my talents in a far higher cause.
I will convene all the loves — the Soft desires — and ecstatic transports around you — I will thaw that bosom, as cold and as spot less as the new sallen Snow — I will oblige it to melt at the earnest Solicitations of the most ardent lover that ever breathed a
sigh” -- --
“Are you not the Tuke of Suffolk ?’*
If that name is hateful to you — no.”
“I know you too well, my Lord; and am ingenuous enough to confess, that you are the last man in the world I would receive the ssightest Service from — however, I thank you once more for ridding me of Mr ain stey.”
I was hastening from him — he stepped after me- -- -
/
“heaven I am not Suffolk !”
“Well, may be So! but, as long as I retain the least suspicion that you are, your conversation must be shunned by me.”
“Stay, Sweet Julia! — suppose — sup pose this mass dropped — and you discovered the features of osmond — Say — would you pardon his temerity ?”
He Seemed agitated — he pressed my hand
to
 . 203
to his bosom — I started — how can I tell you the various sensations that possessed my heart in the course of one moment! At length I recolledted that this was an artifice — an inhuman artifice of the duke’s, to deceive " me into a belief that he Was osmond — to find on what foot we were — and to be treat
t «
ed very differently by me under that character, than he would be in his own, F withdrew my hand hastily.
Was I mistaken before, this last inde licate, illusory interrogation, would be Sufficient to prove you no other than the Duke of Suffolk. Away, my Lord! and be careful, till you bring your Sentiments to be Something similar to Lord osmond’s, not to disgrace his name by borrowing it.’* “I quitted him immediately, and had the Satisfaction, in a quarter of an hour, to See him retire from the apartments. I sat a good while in conversation with Lady Percival, my mother, and Lord Budenall, when a gentleman, in the dress of murphy’s Hamet, asked me to dance a minuet. I refused. Lady Pemberton desired him to persevere in his entreaty till 1 consented, There was no more to be Said. I arose,
I 6 and
204 MAS Q.U eradesj or,
and he led me to the room appropriated to minuets. As we entered, Sir Charles Montague met me.
“Whom have you got there ?’* whisper cd he.
“Indeed, I do not know, ” answered I.
“You are not engaged to him for the night I hope.”
1 replied in the negative.
“That is well — let no Solicitation induce you to give your hand to any partner, but the one I have provided for you.”
It was time to begin before 1 could alk whom he reserved for me? As Soon as the minuet ended, he approached me, followed by as elegant a figure as my eyes ever beheld, in the habit of Jachimo. Sir Charles introduced him to me with this Sentence:
“Honour by your notice Lord osmond’s and my very particular friend — in distinguishing Mr. Sedley you will oblige us both!”
Never, Lady Westbrook, did I See So strong a resemblance as his person bore to the marquis’s — his manner — his address, were strongly represented in this stranger's
— his
 . 2^05
— his voice indeed differedi — but I thought it affected— — the thickness with which he Spoke managed by a trifling stratagem. I felt sick. I complained of the heat of the room — took off my mask— — was forced to sit down. Sir Charles and Mr. Sedley (for So I am to call him, they tell me) were all attention. The latter threw open a Sash near me — he procured Some volatiles, and held them to my nose. His benevolence was very amiable, and rendered him yet more like my Lord. In a few minutes I was as well as ever. Mr. Sedley retired a few paces — I could not avoid whispering Sir Charles,
“Sure it is osmond’s Self!”
He laughed -- -- -
“Entertain that notion, and you, will pass Some hours agreeably. To help the illusion, he shall not unmask: for,, were you to See his face, you would Scarcely compare him to osmond — it is as rough and uncouth as his figure is elegant.”
“I wonder he did not withdraw his malk, Sir Charles, when you presented him to me!”
“Oh, the fellow has vanity! I will lay any wager that he conceals his features
from
*
2o6
from you as long as he can — but I must flatter him, by mentioning the resemblance you discover.’*
Sir Charles waited not my reply — he joined Mr. Sedley, and appeared higwy diverted whilst he communicated Something to him. They both came up to me, and Mr. Sedley entreated I would not deny him the honour of being my partner. I pleaded want of health, and declared my intention was to avoid dancing.
“If you do, ” Said Montague, yotir situation must be most unpleasant — Suffolk will be continually at your elbow.”
Oh, no !” exclaimed I, “he is gone — I shall See no more of him this night, I trust !”
Sir Charles was called aside. Mr. Sedley, ashed, if I really meant not to dance? X answered that I could not possibly, for the reason I had alleged. He Said it was So important a one, that he would not for the world press me to alter my resolution. He Seated himself near me, and Seemed desirous of entering into conversation; but it was not to be effected from the continual interruption that we had. A Lady in the dress
of a paisanne approached Mr. Sedley —
‘‘ Good
In ^
\
* t %
 . aoy
Good God, ” cried she, is it actually true that you are returned! How long has your Lordship been in England ?”
He assured her that she mistook him.
“No, ” replied she; “that I certainly do not — it is impossible to mistake Lord osmond.”
“Lord osmond is in Switzerland, ” Said he; “but we have been osten addressed for each other!”
“Lord osmond never did exist, if you are not he !” she answered: : — “you have a motive for wishing to be concealed — Well I am enough your friend and Lady julia’s, to keep the Secret! Do not be afraid of finding in me a Second Charlotte Pelham.”
%
She turned from us. I was amazingly embarrassed, and began a Second time to think it was indeed the Marquis. I arose instantly to go in Search of louisa: I had not advanced ten yards besore my hand was Seized by Sir Charles Montague.
“What have you done with Sedley, Lady Julia ?”
“With Sedley !” repeated I: “can I be So easily imposed upon, do you think ?”
!! Why
/
io MAS QJJ ERADES; or,
»»
“Why what do you suppose
“That you have deceived me, Sir Charles.”
\
He blushed, and hastily drew aside. I was afraid that I had offended him: however, I proceeded, and after much trouble found louisa. I conjured her to tell me whether my fuspieions were not well grounded? She assumed an air of astonishment, and then laughed at me. I informed her that I was not Singular in my conjecture, and related what had passed between the friend of Sir Charles and the Paifanne.
“I do not deny, my dear, ” cried she, ‘‘ that there is a similitude in Mr sedley’s person to Lord osmond^s, but Surely not So great a one as you Say! — I will let you into a Secret, Julia — Mr. Sedley is an illegitimate Son of westmorland’s; So there is nothing extraordinary in the likeness you perceive. — But pray discard these doubts; they are absurd beyond measure; and if they continue, 1 Shall believe you have - lost your senses!”
I blushed at my weakness, and began to fancy I had already given her and Sir
Charles room for the idea. As I returned
*. •
to
W H AT YOU W I L L 209
to the principal apartment, I met Mr. sed lay and the paisanne together. She ran up to me, took hold of my arm, and led me aside —
“Pardon me, Lady Julia, ” Said she, “for distreffing you as I did involuntarily. I really thought yon Jachimo was Lord Osinond : however, I am convinced of my error — I made him unmask— — I am per suaded there is not another man in the world who can .show Such a face !”
“What is it So fi ightful ?”
“If you wish not to be shocked, avoid gratifying your curiosity.”
She hurried away, and Mr. Sedley shin' ed me.
‘‘ Tne paisanne is at length Satisfied of her mistake. Sir, ” cried I.
“Oh yes, ” replied he, “at the expense of beholding a very ugly countenance. The agreeable paisanne is Lady Maria Harley, I find.”
A person in the dress of a Haduke drew
near.
I would give a thousand guineas, ” ex -- claiined he to Mr, Sedley, “to be better acquainted with you. I like your shirit. I
heard
2i6 masqlu Est AD ES; ot,
heard you anfvver the Turk who supptosed you to be Lord osmond, in a manner that does you honour. Prithee, my good Jachimo, let me See whether in the tawny complexion you resemble your countrymen
Mr. Sedley Seemed to take no notice of this familiar add refs, but continued to Speak to me of the paisanne* The malk would not be disregarded— — laid his hand upon Mr. sedley’s shoulder.
If you wish to attain happiness with this young creature, who Surpasses shake spear’s Imogen in beauty, I will inform you of a Secure method to gain her, provided I know whom I shall oblige. She is not deaf to persuasion” - — ^
“Do you hint. Sir, ” cried Sedley, “that
ynu have experienced her flexibility P“
“no nieans — charming as she is, I never gave myself the trouble to assail her, But view thole eyes — those lips -- thole cheeks — are. they not the animated features of Susceptibility? They clearly prove that she can, not only give, happiness to, — but receive it from a lover. — Come, come, allow me to See your face
I will
 . stf
“I will certainly show it to you, ” replied Sedley, “if you make it necessary— — off. Sir! and offend this Lady and me no further with your discourse.”,
“Upon my Soul, ” exclaimed the Ha » duke, “I believe you are Lord osmond.’* “suppose 1 am. Sir — Did you, or any man, ever discover osmond backward in chastising impertinence? — Have a care! 1 may be found very like him in that respect / :
The mask turned away muttering, J told Mr. Sedley he was too hasty —
“Not at all, ” answered he. “I Saw him and Suffolk in close conserence — the Duke ashed me one or two unreasonable questions — and, dissatisfied at not being able to find out who I am, dispatched this puppy on that errand.”
“I thought the Duke was gone.”
“He has changed his dress, I suppose —. He now appears as a Turk, and is unmash ed — there he stands — observe the embarrassment pidlured on his countenance— — fancies I am the Marquis.”
Some minutes after Mr. Montague joined us.
V Sedley, ”
2 12 MAS QUE R A D E S; or,
“Sedley, ” cried he, “if Jack Ainssey had a Spark, of courage, he would acknowledge that you have affronted him. He is in a desperate rage, and I overheard him making a complaint to the Duke of your ill breeding. His Grace bid him resent it — No, he answered; Such a fellow was only worthy of contempt — besides, your language was merely impolite, not insolent.” They both laughed heartily — my mother beckoned to me : I went up to her.
“■ Who is that gentleman, Julia “‘an absolute stranger to me. Madam • — his name is Sedley/’
She Seemed contented, and, no doubt, Set the duke’s mind at ease; for he never once approached me, or Mr. Sedley, who left my Side very Seldom. He Spoke much of his friend — described his passion with an energy that I imagined could only stow from the lips of my dear Lord. I told him that he was certainly himself a lover,
** I am, indeed 1” replied he. “I have felt all the agonies of suspenfe — of Separation — and Sometimes the transport of being admitted to the presence of her 1 adore. Ah, Lady Julia, did you love in, the hundredth
%
 . 215
_ it
dredth degree that osmond and I do, you would Suffer him to unite every affectionate title to you in that of husband! Instead of feasting his eyes on an inanimate piece of painting — instead of clasping it to his heart, and committing a thousand extravagances— — would allow him to bestow those caresses on an object dearer to him than it is in the possibility of words to tell, ’* “If Lord ositiond, ” cried 1, “considered the affair properly, he could not think that I betrayed a want of attachment to him, in refusing to deviate from the duty I owe my mother. The daughter who loses sight of the moral obligations a parent exadts, may justly be suspedted of paying no regard to the vows she makes her husband— — I do not rightly understand you; what piece of painting do you mean He took my hand;
Sweet arguer! your gentle manner of
determining every claim i make, to” -- -- -
I thought him too free — withdrew my my hand — and repeated my question. He answered hastily,
“The piisture I wear next my heart.’*
♦y How!’’ exclaimed I; “Lord osmond
has
u4 MAS CLUE R A D E S; or,
has nothing to do with that! — Sure he is jsot become your rival !’*
He hesitated.
“I beg pardon— — you not alk what bit of painting I wore
“Good heaven. Sir, no! I am ignorant of your having any miniature; nor should I be So curious.”
“The Marquis, Madam, is happy e oough to possess your picture— — you be Sorry for it It is the greatest consolation a lover can have in the absence of his mis trefs 1 ”
“r believe. Sir, you must be mistaken — I never gave him” " -
No — you were not So kind; but your amiable sister was. Tell me, do you regret it ?”
“Indeed I do not— — am pleased he has anything to remind him of his Julia. You may imagine, Mr. Sedley, that I am blame able in owning my affection for the Marquis So unreservedly; but his merit justifies my choice — and I would make it known, that to no other man will I ever give my hand, convinced at the Same
time
I..
 . 215
time that I shall never have it in my power to present it to him.”
Mr. Sedley was agitated— — left me abruptly — but in a few minutes returned— — •' “interest I take in ofmond’s happiness. Lady Julia, ” cried he, must account to you for the feelings I cannot help testifying! yet Surely you are too obstinate — Some Scruples might be Sacrificed to So faithful, So Sincere a lover. Heaven demands not of us to become” - — - —
“I must not hear you on this head; your Sophistry may add to my wretchedness, but cannot change my resolution.”
Sir Charles Montague, Lord Beaumont, and Lord Budenall, interrupted us; and I had very little conversation further with Mr. Sedley, ^ who still hovered near me. I asked Sir Charles if he was angry with me
He Smiled --
“Notin the least— — must be Sure by this time, that you injured me in the thought you expressed.” - — We had no formal Supper, but side boards furnished with every delicacy that could be fancied.
Mn Sedley begged to hold my gloves whilst
1 tasted
2i6, M AS(: tuerad£s; or,
%
I hasted Some fruit. Soon after I demanded them : he pretended to look for them — made me many apologies for his carelessness — and hoped I was provided with another pair. I assured him I was not. “How unlucky !” cried he, “they have certainly been stolen from me.” He affected to be extremely Solicitous to find them; but without success. When the moment arrived for our departure, he took my hand. We were following Lady Pemberton and Lord Budenall out of the apartments, when Mr.
‘ Montague stopped us. He had a message to Mr. Sedley from Lady louisa; and whilst he delivered it. Lord Clermont and Almeria passed by — in short, before Mr. Montague could receive an answer, I was left Several yards behind my mother and sister. As we descended the staircase, Mr. Sedley pressed my hand to his bosom — he sighed, and attempted under the curtain of his mafic to kiss it. I Snatched it from him — and evinced my displeasure. That availed nothing; in Spite of my resistance, he again Seized it, and carried it to his lips.
You do not know me, Sir, ” cried L
y Thefo
 . 217
p
“thesc liberties — you forget your friend
— you forget” — —
“Ah, my Julia — my ever dearest Julia!” exclaimed he, in the natural voice of of mond. Dear Emily, what a situation was I in! — Time admitted no more — in an instant I found myself in the coach — I Saw him disappear — I knew not what to imagine.
“Upon my word, Julia, ” Said Almeria, as we drove off, “you have the luck of attradling all the elegants! — Why this stranger is enchanting! — I wish he had bestowed the attention on me, th, at he paid to you — you were insensible to it; I should have been delighted — Oh Lord, I am in love with Mr. bedley !”
I was too much distressed to answer her rallery.
He is amazingly like Lord Gfmond, ” cried Lady Pemberton; “donst you think he is, Julia ?”
“So much So, Madam, ” answered I, “that at this minute I can hardly believe it is any other than the Marquis.”
“Indeed!” !” my mother — she paused — “Your ingenuity is praiseworthy!!
IV L
si M A S q_tl E R A D E S; or,
— But, my dear, if the person you suspedt was really osmond, he certainly would have discovered himself to you. Give up that idea, Julia; for Maria Harley told me she Saw his face, and it is a horrible one.”
“Oh, then I am cured !” exclaimed Almeria : “I wish I had known it Sooner; I should not have treated Lord Clermont So ill.”
1 am strangely perplexed. Lady Westbrook. One moment I am persuaded that I have conversed with osmond; the next I ressedt on the many circumstances that happened, which exterminate that belief. 1 Saw Sir Charles and louisa this morning: I mentioned the incident that passed as Mr. Sedley led me to the carriage, and insisted on their informing me whether Lord osmond did not borrow that name. They turned my question into Such ridicule, that I repented having put it to them. I beg of you, my amiable Emily, to tell me whether the Marquis is in England — if he is, I am Sure you and Sir James must know it. I have been thus particular, to convince you that my Sur
misei
\
 .
mises are at least formed from striking appearances.
I have received no answer from the Duke of Westmoreland; and from thence I lose all hope of his acting with justice towards his Son.
Adieu, my dear Lady Westbrook Write Soon, and think me
Your afieflionate
Julia Herbert
r James Westbrook,
Cumherland Streef,
Yes, Westbrook, I have indeed Seen
and conversed with my charming Julia: I have obtained proofs of her at.
. beyond expression grateful, whilst
L 2 she
\
^20 M A S Q, U E R A D E S; OR,
she imagined me very distant from her.' — ■ You think my Scheme romantic, you Say. •it may be So; but it affords me a large
share of happiness, -- -- -1 would not for
worlds create the least anxiety in julia’s
breast. -- -- “Should you be known, her
iamily must suppose her accessary to your concealment. Should she hear of yoyr return, she will avoid you. I condemn your measures, and fear you may have
reason to repent of them.” -- -- -- No, dear
, Weftbrook; give not room for apprehensions of the fort. It is imposhble the pemberton’s should discover me; and, if Julia only suspedts that Sedley is osmond, her heart will not allow her to shun him. Besides, the opportunities I have of Speaking to her are So very few, that there is no danger of her coming to the truth. Two, and but two, delicious nights since my arrival have I Spent in presence of the angel — each time I was in masquerade — I wore a habit to Portman square that put it beyond the power of mortal to suspedl: who I was. For, the ball given by Lady Louisa, I provided one that rendered my appearance iomething gayer than a hermit’s:
Montague
4
 . ait
Montague Saw it, and rallied me egre giousiy on my vanity, which he Said would indubitably Subject me to detection. Lord Beaumont called at the moment, and I Submitted the point to his decision : he gave it against me, and I was doomed to become a magician.
Unfortunately, Lady Julia took me for Suffolk — it was in vain to prevail on her to give up that opinion; and, to prevent my being avoided by her, I was obliged to assume the dress Sir Charles had objected to.
When Montague introduced me to her under my fictitious appellation, she was embarrassed what to think; declared mv
r
resemblance to — myself was strange! I at first enjoyed her perplexity. She unmasked for the benefit of freer respiration — the colour had fled her cheeks — her bo some heaved — and she Seemed near fainting.
I grew uneasy, and more than once regretted the furprise 1 had occasioned her. However, she was persuaded out of her reason, and regarded me as the friend of her lover,
L 3 Several
/
4
0 ^
722 MAS(LULRAD£S; or.
Several addressed me by the title I have thrown aside. I was Soon Sensible that I ran a great hazard of being discovered; and forced to be very much on my guard ■ — nay, I was discovered by one person! Lady Maria Harley declared positively that I was Lord osmond. 1 followed her, and by twenty artifices Sought to remove the conjecture.
“Come, ” Said she, “let me See your face, arid that will decide at once.”
You may be Sure I evaded Such an examination.
“Well!” she exclaimed, you will not, I presume, refuse your hand to a Lady — give me leave to look on it — nay, it is natural to present the one next to me - — your left hand I want.”
I offered it to her.
“Indeed, my Lord, you are So diffident of me (knowing who I am), that you deserve no mercy. Do you yet deny that this is Lord olshond’s hand ?”
Most certainly 1 do.”
“Your Subterfuge is, that it is Julia herbert’s.”
y Whilst
 . 223
“Whilst you keep your features concealed from me, I ritust wissi that she would consider it in that light. There is temptation enough about her to make me willingly become osmond’s rival! — ‘ but, as report Says she is very cruel, prithee destroy the effect of her charms by withdrawing that unkind mask, and fix me yours at once. Much have I heard of Lady Maria harley’s beauty, and” --
“The fraiidulency of that Speech will not answer — Ha! — this ring, my Lord — the hair is the exact colour of Lady julia’s I think — — and the cyphers which these
jewels compose are J. H, -- tvhat taste
the little ornament displays! — It is very handsome indeed— — in Paris I fuppose. Pray who is your lordship’s jeweller there
I strove to persuade her that she had mistaken the initials; and hoped to make her Silent, by hinting, that the Marquis must be a happy man, to engage So much of her attention. It was all to no purpose. “I declare, ” cried she, “if you will let me see your face, you shall find me Serviceable in ashsting to carry on the deception
L 4 to
I
124.
! to Others: — if not, I will tell Lady Julia who you really are, which I know she is anxious to learn, by a question I overheard her aik Sir Charles. It is for Some weighty reason I find that you impose upon her — dread then the mischief I have it in my power to occasion !”
I led her aside, and unmashed.
“Now, ” exclaimed I, catching her in my arms, “1 must be rewarded, for gratifying as insatiable curiosity as ever female possessed!”
I imagined her Ladyship did not mean I should uncover my face without obliging her to do the Same. She disengaged herself from me — --
“No infidelity to your Julia, my Lord I — You can have no pleasure in Saluting any Lady but her. I am the last in the world who would monopolise the fiightest ofthose endearments she alone is entitled to from you. I esteem her excellence; I admire her beauty; and wish you both happy. Receive miy thanks for this proof of confidence, which, depend, is not ill bestowed, ”
We
\
V
/
 ; 225
• f **
i
We returned to the company, and I rejoined the beloved of my Soul— — am interrupted -- -- --
A
4
m ^ ^ ^ ^
, How will you exult at what I have just been told! — Between the hours of one and two this morning. Lady Henrietta march rnont left her father’s house, with a Smart young Cornet, whole fame is rendered Something popular for dealing largely in Scandal. Need I add his appellation?
Take it then -- -- -- Jack Ainsiey. Budenall, -
an hour ago, looked in upon me, and gave the following intelligence:;
“Some evenings since, Frederick Montague and I were at the Cocoa tree, where Jack Soon joined us. His; heart laboured; with an important discovery. We appeared totally unmindful of his hints, significant shrugs, and meaning looks — — till at last he was provoked to tell us, without be, iog interrogated, that he received the u' most encouragement from Liady Henriet to become her lover. We both staref
L 5 *
«
• •
a2!6
and he, with an air of exultation, vowed, it was a pity she happened to be So damn’d ugly, else he might be prevailed on to take her as a companion to Scotland; and. should be glad, by Such a stroke, to break the chain of stavish dependence which Suffolk bound him So tightly in, Unfortunately I owe him six thousand pounds, ” added he, ‘‘ and must Submit to his caprices.”
Frederick declared, if her Ladyship gave him Such a preference, he would make no objections to her person, as he should deem it madness for one of his narrow fortune to let ssip So glorious an opportunity of ensuring happiness to himself.”
“You are right, Frederick, ” exclaimed I; ‘‘ and was fate So propitious to you, you would not have much time to Spare — a Sew days over, and she will be duchess of Westmoreland. I really compassionate the amiable Henrietta. It is incredible what romantic nonsense fills the heads of our young men. To me she does not appear So plain; she is well enough, I am Sure, for a wife. Could I hope to Succeed, I would most gladly rival his Grace.”
“Your
% y
\
y
 . 227
“Your Lordship might do that without much trouble, ” cried Frederick;
but to rival Mr. Ainstey, would be a difficult talk indeed.”
** Jack Smiled, bowed, and Swallowed the bait greedily.”
“One circumstance, ” replied he, deters me. My notions are too refined I Should the Duke marry Lady Henrietta, great part of her fortune at his death will devolve to his Son — at least I suppose So — I would not be an enemy to Lord of mond’s interest.”
We could hardly refrain from laughing at So absurd an answer, which was meant to inspire us with a high opinion of his generosity. We obviated his delicate jcru pies, and he took leave of us to attend an appointment he had with her Ladyship.
“Harkee, Ainstey, ” cried Frederick, as he was retiring, if you do not carry her off, I shall susped: the veracity of what you told us.”
“He answered with a thousand oaths that it was a fast“
“am incredulity itself, ” returned Montague; y prove it in the manner I
L 6 have
%
s28 M ASQ.UERADES; or,
have mentioned, and when I pay my compliments of congratulation to Lady Henrietta Ainssey, I will demand your pardon for now doubting your attestation.’*
“Last night he informed Frederick, that the matter was fettled : she was ho be ready at a fixed moment to go off with him, accompanied by a maid who indisputably was agent in the whole Scheme. Montague and I were Solicitous for the event, and kept ourselves concealed near the Spot where the carriage waited. In half an hour after we had taken our stand, we had the Satisfaction of Seeing Lady Henrietta, her attendant, and Jack, step into the chaise, and drive off at a furious rate.
“This morning about eleven o’clock I called in grosvenor square. The house was in great confusion — Lord Davenport had just Sent to inform the Duke of his daughter’s elopement, and the Servant who carried the fatal intelligence, had given the alarm to his grace’s domestics. On
i
feeing a chaise drive to the door whilst I waited for admishon, I asked the porter if my Lord Duke intended leaving London?
The fellow answered in the affirmative,
adding,.
 . *29
adding, he [uppofed his Grace was going after Lady Henrietta Marehmont, who had run away from her friends. I affected great astonishment, and inquired who went with her, and [which way. she was gone? The man very communicatively replied. Only her woman; that Some of the maids heard Lady henrietta’s Abigail Say yesterday; morning, in a jesting manner, that she hoped to become a great traveller, and See Scotland Soon; from whence it was conjedlured that her Lady and Self had taken that road.
“On entering the duke’s apartment, I perceived that he was much discomposed however, he Said not a Syllable of the affair to me, but in a few minutes apologised for being obliged to Send me away, pleading in excuse Sudden business with Lord daven port.
Or with his daughter rather, my Lord !’* cried I laughing, and made my bow. From grosvenor square I came hither, to receive your thanks for the part I had in Spiriting Ainssey to do you Such an essential Service.’* Sir Charles and Frederick joined us — we laughed at the stratagem, and unanimousty
hoped that Jack would make Sure of his
i. ' mistress
4
4^0 MAS CLU ERADES} or,
rnistress before my father crosses the Tweed, It would be horribly disagreeable to her to return with her old, instead of her young lover. I wonder what Suffolk will think 6f this coup d.eclat of jack’s. I wish the low pride that can delight in tyrannising over a dependent, may meet with incessant mortifications!
Fail not to kifs my worthy Lady caroline’s hand as my representative — tell Lady Westbrook I presume to love her tenderly. Adieu, my dear Sir James! I can never lose sight of the favours I owe you, and shall ever be,
/
Your most grateful.
And affectionate friend,
Osmond,
WHAT VOU WILL. sji
*
To Sir Charles Montague, Honoured Sir,
1 Write, by my Lord duke’s orders, to inform you, that, as we were between Eaton and Buckden, the darkness of the night hindered us from observing that the linchpin of one of the hind wheels of his grace’s chaise had dropped out, and, the postilions turning shortly, the wheel ssew off, and the carriage o /erfet. Unfortunately, my Lord duke’s right leg was broken — he remained So long in torture before we could procure a vehicle to convey him with any degree of ease to Buckden, (where we thought he would be better accommodated than at Eaton,) that by the time he reached it, he was speechless; however, with the assistance of proper remedies, we recovered him. A Surgeon from Huntingdon attempted to Set the bone — whether he has Succeeded I know not — the leg is dreadfully Swelled, and my Lord complains of agonising pain His Grace was very impatient at being kept at

an inn, and insisted on our removing him this morning to his Seat, which is a mile within Peterborough. He would not listen to remonstrance, and we were forced to obey. A litter was got, on which we laid him, and with all imaginable caution brought him home; but we were hardly arrived, when he perceived Symptoms of the gout flying about his stomach — he has a high fever, and is, upon the whole, in a
most alarming situation.
O
I dispatched an express from Buckden to
Mr. A -- -- -, desiring his attendance as Soon
as polsible — the one I now Send with this to your honour, carries a letter to the Same purport to Doctor W -- -- -.
My Lord conjures you, by everything yoii hold dear, to pardoti past animosities, and allow him to See you — he has much to Say, and transadt, and fears he has but little time for either. He will be much obliged to you to call on his lawyer, Mr.
-- -- -- -, and beg of him to accompany
you to Belfont. I must mention, that Lord Davenport, who was in the chaise with his Grace, received no injury from the accident, and, after feeing my Lord Duke put
to
%
> ■
V.
  23^
to bed, proceeded with great haste on his journey to Scotland. We heard on the road that Lady Henrietta was attended by a young officer; ' which intelligence added much to the two noblemen’s consterna »
and accelerated their Speed to overtake them.
Where is my young Lord, Sir Charles? In what strange land is he Concealed at Such a juncture? The Duke Seems afraid to repeat his name — yet I think he is apprehensive of dying without making him atonement. For god’s Sake, Sir, lose not a moment! i.ord oishond’s interest is at stake.
■ I will trouble you no longer, but beg leave to Subscribe myseif, with great respeci,
■ Honoured Sir,
Your most dutiful,
f.... ....
*
obedient humble Servant,
/•
John Freebourne*
4
^9
/
j34
II Lord Osmond.
Hasten to your father, my dear
friend, who is impatient to be reconciled to you — to bury in one cordial embrace all injuries, and to hear from your lips that he is forgiven. If ever man was repentant, the Duke is — he clasps his hands in an agony of despair; he weeps, and execrates his late criminal conduct— — Says you must incessantly pour curses on his guilty head, and that eternity has prepared tortures to complete the vengeance you demand on him. He views the calamity he has met with, as a chastisement from heaven for the unjust part he was acting towards you; and declares the pains he feels are nothing to those he shall encounter after death. Just now he called me to his Side.
What would I not give Sir Charles, ” cried he, “to See my Son — to expire in his arms! — But I am unworthy of that com
forth — Death will have finished my miserable
/
WHAT Y O U W I L L 235
rable course, ere the amiable boy can be informed of my condition.’*
I told him you were in London, and would immediately obey his Summons.
“In London do you Say — is he So near?
• -- -- -- -- -- -- And now my coward heart
fails at the thought of beholding him --
Oh, Sir Charles I when I must be quickly hurried hence to account for the murder of a wife, how can I bear to meet the gentle reproaches of that wise, in the face of her Harry? — His eyes, So like my ill-fated laura’s, will dart ten thousand poniards to my Soul — they will upbraid me with the cruelty she experienced from me — they will upbraid me with stretching my inhumanity towards her beyond the grave, in alienating my affections from her Son — in abandoning him to the calamities of the world i nay, in Seeking to deprive him of the little I had no right to keep from him — Plunging into futurity, all my crimes stand confessed to my sight: — my laura’s Sufferings — the unnatural part I have a<5led in resped of my child — my only child, lie heavy on my conscience — and the remembrance of my brutal conversation. Sir Charles, the last
time
236 MAS(LUERADES; or,
/
time I Saw you, fills up the measure of my
despair -- -1 can have no confoiation — Let
hell gape at once and Swallow me — I cannot — I will not See osmond — he certainly disclaims me
I endeavoured to compose him — I asked if he had ever found you of a vindictive turn? He interrupted me — —
“I have always found him generous and noble; but he has now Such repeated injuries to look back on, that I dare not hope for his pardon. You best know his disposition— — shame I own, that I was ever uneasy in his presence, and kept him Sundered from me as much as possible. His countenance So strongly repreients his Sainted mother’s, that it continually reminded me of my base treatment of her.’*
I offered many arguments to obviate his objection, and begged him to allow me to send for you. Freebourne, who was by, fell on his knees
%
“the love of God, my Lord, ” exclaimed he with energy, “do not deny yourself the happiness of feeing the Marquis! If his features express the least reproach— — me that minute from your
Service,
'
I
 . 337
Service, loaden with every indignity that can be thought of. Your Grace must be indeed a stranger to him, if you Sufpedl his tenderness!”
“I wish more than I can mention to see my Son, but I am afraid of him. Sir Charles and you say I have no reason, from his benevolence — I will then throw aside my apprehensions, and give myself up to the pleasure of expecting him. Send directly. Sir Charles; and tell him, as be hopes to See me alive, to make haste to belsont — I long to clasp him in my arms — to let loose my Sorrow, my repentance on his bosom.’’
You may judge, my dearest osmond, with what joy I retired to obey him— — Duke is dangerousiy ill; the gout has attacked his stomach, and his leg was So vilely mismanaged, as not to have been Set till A -- -- -- did it, which from the violent Swelling
was a most difficult tash to effect, and an operation painful enough, I think, to have killed him in his present Situation,
I hope that you make yourself no further reproaches — How were you accessary to the misfortune? You knew nothing of
the
/
238
the matter, till after the Duke left town; and if Budenall and Frederick Sought to promote your interest, can you be blamed whilst you were ignorant of the measures they adopted for that purpose? I will be be hanged, if either of them have a Scruple on the occasion. They will tell you, your father had no business to make himself ridiculous, by pursuing a young girl who evinced Such an aversion to him — that they meant to do him a Service, and prevent his head from resembling adlson’s — and a hundred other reasons that I think not bad. — — Let things go as they will, you are rid of a mother in law for the present. Lord Davenport arrived too late in scot* land to hinder the validity of his daughter’s marriage — He returned directly, passed half an hour at Belfont, in which time he deplored his fate most ruefully. He merits the trick she played him for constraining her to adt So oppositely to her inclinations. He has just driven from the gate, and you may probably meet him, as he does not return with So much expedition as he came down.
I must
 . 23^
I must write two lines to my louisa, and the express waits. I am, my dear osmond,
Truly yours,
Charles Montague
ISO Lady Westbrook.
^ teednaday^ two o'clock.
WHEN you have read the two enclosed
letters which, ’ by Lord osmond’s desire, and Sir Charles montague’s, I Send for your. Lady caroline’s, and Sir james’s perusal, you will not be ‘ Surprised, dear Emily, at hearing that the Marquis has just Set out for Peterborough. On receiving his friend’s Summons, he ordered his chaise. — He was much afstidled ac
* The two preceding letters,
Che
240 M A SXLU.DR AD, £sj; or,
the duke’s Situation. When he bade me adieu,
“I never knew till within these three days. Lady l9uisa, ” cried he, “how dear he is to me -- My unhappy father! — I regret
my past impatience towards you most felisibly.”
Ah, what has not the Duke lost, by depriving himself of the Society of this unparagon’d young man I
Lady Mortimer, and Julia, have promised to occupy places in my box this evening at Drury-lane. ^ Almeria is confined by a night indisposition, and Lady Pemberton stays at home with her. I am to call on our Sweet friend, and #rry her to the playhouse.
As Soon as I hear from Belfont, I will write again. In the meanwhile, believe me, dear Lady Westbrook,
Much yours,
Louisa Montague,
 . *+<
to Lady Westbrook.
V
S
.A quarter after twehsi
SLEEP is banished from my eyes, and I must busy myself in making you a partaker of my happiness — I went early to Portman square; and, desirous of enquir ^ ing after Almeria, left my carriage, and was shown into the eating room, where I found only Lady Pemberton and her two daughters. I perceived they were acquainted with the accident which had befallen the Duke, and with his dangerous situation, but ignorant of Sir charles’s having been Sent for. I mentioned nothing of it even to Julia. Sir Charles had given me no directions how to adt, and I thought it would make no difference, if she remained in the dark a few hours — besides, to say a truth, I was afraid to trust myself on the Subject, lest by Some unguarded word I might let drop a hint that the Marquis was in England; and. J dreaded nothing So much, well knowing
what commotion I should raise in her breast, yol. IV M and
*44 mas QUE R A D £ S; or,
and how Severely I should be chid for my duplicity with her.'
We were stepping into the coach, when Lord Pemberton and Mr. Montague walked to the door.
“Where is Sir Charles, Lady louisa cried my Lord“
“left town a few days ago, ’* replied I Ishat is cursedly unlucky !”
Do you want him, my Lord ?**
I was in hopes he would have gone down to Peterborough, and prevailed on Westmoreland to be reconciled to his Son — osmond is unfortunate — I fear the Duke
will keep his word.”
“No doubt of it! — why should he not exemplify as much firmness in his resolutions as you do? Inflexibility is one of your virtues. Lord pembertoni here is an instance of the Same shining quality in another; pray admire it! — If pity is foreign to the duke’s nature, Sir charles’s rhetoric would be lost on him.”
He looked abashed, but tried to turn my words into ridicule. The gentlemen entered the hoofe, and we proceeded to the theatre. During our drive, Julia con denmed herself incessantly for not admitting
I
 , 143
ting of Lord osmond’s return, when he Supplicated that favour --
“His presence at Such a season might be very necessary, ” cried she; - — “but with the best intentions in the world, I am always wrong!”
'I Said, I was convinced the Duke would do nothing contrary to the interest cf Lord osmond. She wept and replied, it would have been happy for him, had they never met.
%
Lady Mortimer and Lady Seymour were ' in the box, when we entered it. Lord Seymour and Mr. Bishop came to us Soon after, and placed themselves on each fide of me. As I Sat immediately behind Lady Mortimer, I had an opportunify of telling her, in a short whisper, that osmond was gone down to Belfont, at his father’s request.
“.dhankgod !” exclaimed she : “I sup pose, then. Sir Charles will be back immediately — this night perhaps — I long to hear” -- --
observed that Julia looked at us with a penetrating eye — I drew off, and prevented further discourfe on the subject. Lady
M 2 Mortimer
f
s44 mas LUE R a D E S j or,
Mortimer took the hint — 1 heard her Say, in a low voice to Julia,
'“What! a doleful countenance still?
. — You perceive Some of my wishes concerning the Duke have at length happily taken effect— — you not naturally conclude that the others I have formed will be crowned with equal Success r”
At the end of the third at the door opened — judge of my Surprise at Seeing Sir Charles Montague step into the box — I am Sure, if those around took notice of my face, they must have fupposed that he detected me in Something not right. I could not help Saying, Good God I what is the matter He stole his finger to his month, Tunderstood the sign, and was silent. Lady Mortimer, no doubt, was anxious to Speak with him; but, lest she should alarm her ..ster, assumed an air of composure, and endeavoured to carry her attention to the opposite boxes, by Some remarks she made. Sir Charles caught an instant without being overheard, to tell me not to be uneasy — : that he had delightful news for me — and inquired if my friend knew of his journey SO Belfons f I replied in the negative.
Two
\
W HAT YOU W I L L S
%
Two minutes after, Julia laid, the pleasure of Seeing him was unexpe<5led — that I had insormed her he was absent from London.
I am but just returned to it, ” answei ed he“ “is weather for the country, my Lord, ’’ addressing himsels to Seymour : “even Surry looks miserably as
you travel through it !”
Sir Charles took his Seat behind me, and, on Lord seymour’s leaving the box (tojoin Some Ladies with whom he remained till the play was nearly over), leaned his head pretty close to my ear, and Spoke as follows :
“Some hours after I had Sent away the express to Olmond, I perceived that the Duke became very wretched. He at one time avowed great apprehension of his son’s refusing to approach him — he bewailed the occasion he had given him for doing Sb, and worked himself into an agony that I really thought would terminate his existence. From this notion, he fell into another that disturbed him equally. He declared Ofmond was too humane to reject
M 3 the
246 M A S Q_II E R A D E S; or,
the Summons of a dying parent, however
vile that parents condu(st had been --
“Yes he will come. Sir Charles, ^’ cried he, “but in what manner shall I look up to him ^ — The innumerable wrongs I have heaped upon him will rush through my brain — they will oppress my heart, and, before I can pronounce a petition for pardon — I shall be no more. -- -- -- -- Oh, must
not osmond think that I am only frightened at the horrors of death — that, were life lent me a little longer, I should again relapse?? — you know not all the cruelty I have praftised towards him — you know not what cause he has to despise me — nor how justly I despair of conciliating his affection in my last moments
“I strove to appease his mind. All I urged had no effect— — conssids were insupportable“
“I compensate m any shape. Sir Charles, for what is past, I would convince him how Sincere is my repentance — then should I without torture behold my Son — but it is not in my power, and I must Submit to the most dreadful fate a man can brook — I
must
%
 . 247
«
must See him, whom I have injured, trying through mere charity to administer eonso latibn to me — I must receive that favour at his hands, and be debarred the satisfaction
of repaying his goodness- -- -- leaving
him my estates demonstrate any tenderness - — Will not osmond say, “Unworthy Westmoreland! — the fortune you could make no further use of — rather than bestow it on Some wretched foundling, you bequeathed to your Soff” — he will marry the angel Julia, and carry to his bridal bed this refiedtion — from my unnatural father’s dissolution
Springs my happiness! -- -- -- Oh, osmond!
that you could read what passes this moment in that father’s heart V
‘‘ He turned away his head, and I from the bed — In about a couple of hours he called me to him, “Montague, the Almighty, in compassion, has inspired me with a thought that affords comfort — ‘perhaps, if I make concessions to the pemberton’s — if I humbly entreat them to bestow Lady Julia on my Henry, they will forget the feuds which have Subsisted between us, and assent to my request!” “Indeed, my Lord, ” cried I, “1 think it very probable
M 4 " “try
24^ M A S Cid E ft A D E S • b R,
i -.
. •• — try at least. If your Grace Succeeds, you
will more than recompense the Marquis for ail he has endured. Had he passed years of stavery — had he gone through the Severest hardships this lisc is Subject to, and at length obtained Such a creature as Julia Herbert, he would possess a treasure equivalent to his Sufferings.”
“I am too Sensible, Montague, ” replied he, “of the insult I gave her in permitting the generous, disinterested letter she Sent me, to go unnoticed — Ob, that her family may Suffer me to atone for it !”
“I was astonished, and begged him to explain himself — He desired Freebonrne to bring him his pocketbook— — Duke opened ir, ctnd put a letter (which I have about me, and will show you ar a n iorp mn
venient time) into my hands. The characters were julia’s. I read it with a good deal of Surprise, and Said I wished to be allowed to keep it a few days for your perusal — he an swered I was at liberty to do So.
“Is not Such a girl, ” demanded his Grace, who can Sacrifice her passion for the welfare of the man she loves, deserving
of happiness? — What a brute have I been!
Mon
 . 240
— Montague, I might yet die in peace, could I See her the wife of Ofmond — to * have my children in my arms — instead of reproaches, to receive their thanks — Great God! what a change should I experience from my present feelings! — Sweet Julia !■ — in form and mind you are unparalleled in truth — and only Ofmond is entitled to call you his !’*
“He ordered implements for writing to be brought to him, and with great difficulty he penned a letter to Lady Dowager Pemberton, When he had finished.
Now, Sir Charles, ” cried he, “give me an instance of your friendship — Set off dircdtly for London — is you meet osmond, insist on his returning with you — tell him I command him not come to Belfont, till I, can bear his presence with Some degree of composure — assure him that my whole heart is his — but that, unless he brings with him an angel of peace, who shall be my intercessor, his approach must be dreadful to me -- -- Tender this letter to Lady Pemberton
— exert all your influence with her to read it, and to grant me the blessing I sollicit— — her humanity, my friend, wish i
M 5 Suppli*
f
250 M asclheradesj or,
r
Supplications — conjure her to reflect how necessary to her daughter’s felicity it is, that she should yield to your persuasion— — Lord Pemberton that I would write to entreat his concurrence also — but that I am exhausted from the effort I have made in addreshng Lady Pemberton — Desire Harry to plead his own cause— — they object to having the nuptial ceremony performed without previousty determining about Settlements, and executing marriage deeds; let osmond leave with them a cart blanche,, to be filled up as Lord Pemberton pleases— — may think it right to have my signature as well as my son’s at the bottom, Supposing 1 might recover — that point shall produce no delay.”
“Again the Duke took up a pen, and wrote his name on a sheet of paper — he presented it to me —
Give this to Harry — it shay help to assure him that my repentance is Sincere. On you, my kind, compassionate friend, I depend for comfort. Montague, Suffer me to embrace my Son and daughter in cight and forty hours — J can allow you no
more
\
what you WILL; ssi
more time — — and yet how can I expefk it I — The hour is unseasonable for travelling — Freebourne, what o^elock is it r“
“answered, Something after two.
“Ah!” cried the Duke, I have already interfered greatly with your'repofe — retire to rest. Sir Charles, for the prefentj, and go on your charitable errand to gratify a dying old man at eight or nine o’clock, ’ — I will, as fervently as I cans, beseech Heaven to prolong my existence till you return.”
“I told him I did not require rest, and would depart immediately, if I could gec post horses from the town.
“Freebourne Said there would be much time lost before it could be done — that he would recommend tome to go to bed, promising that my chaise should be ready by Seven o*clock.
“I went into Doctor W — s apartment, and, after Some apologies for disturbing him, begged he would inform me whether he thought the Duke could live three days?
“He assured me, that, though he was fb im as to leave him in doubt of his recovery,
M 6 he
f
iaj2 masq.ueradesi ohe
Saw no immediate danger of death;, but rather supposed, from the natural strength, of his constitution, that his complaints would find Subject to work upontor many days. “Was his mind less agitated. Sir Charles, ” cried he, “I should have hopes of him; but, torn as he is by tumultuous affe(5lions, all remedies lose their power, and his disorder is irritated.”
“Freebourne was faithful to his word: at the appointed hour my chaise was ready.
, Before I left Belfont I entered the duke’s chamber; Dr. W. had just quitted it. His .Grace reached out his hand to me. “I find myself refreshed, dear Montague, ” Said he, I have had Some sseep. W. thinks my fever less violent; and I presume to trust that I shall See my children tomorrow night — — Dear Sir Charles, let me not be disappointed. Again I repeat, all my reliance is on your friendship, ”
“I told him I would do all that njan could to accomplish his desire; and entreated he would keep his Spirits composed, and rest Satisfied in the idea of enjoying for many years the Society of of mond and his Julia. 1 bade him adieu,
 . • 255
stepped into the carriage, and began my journey.
“I met osmond near Hatfield. You maysuppose he paid implicit obedience to his father’s commands, and returned to town with me on the commission we were Sent, without much reluctance. We drove to cumberland street, and changed our apparel — The Servants sold us you were
just gone to the play -- -- osmond and I
iagreed, that it would be best he should remain at our house, till I discovered what success our enterprise would have. He was apprehensive only of giving Julia occasion to regret his unexpected appearance, should her friends continue inexorable; as it would Serve to renew all her Sufferings, and might reduce her to the Situation she was in at windsor. Hence you will know, that we were ignorant of her being of your party.
, “I luckily found Lord Pemberton in
_ ^ f
Portman square, and no stranger present (I cannot call Frederick Montague one), I delivered my embassy, and was beyond my hopes most gracioussy received. I
could
• •
$154 MA SQ.UERADES; or,
could Scarcely credit my senses, when I heard Pemberton exclaim.
By Heaven I am rejoiced! — — Julia shall yet be happy He Solicited his .mother in my friend’s behalf with an energy that Surpassed mine. Lady Pemberton Said, as the Duke was So Suppliant — Julia So much attached to the Marquis — and he really So every way deserving of her, she could offer no further objection to their union. Pemberton ashed where Lord osmond was?
“At my house, ” Said I, waiting in all the torture of suspence.’^
“Let us hasten to him, ” cried he; i “but I must give orders. Madam, that your Ladyship should be denied to every one who comes — Suffolk — the unfortunate Suffolk; will probably be at your door this evening.”
“Pray inform me. Sir Charles, ” laid Lady Pemberton, “who was the mash that attended my daughter So closely on the '. night of your ball
“Lord osmond, Madam, ” replied I: “Lady Julia believed him a stranger to her.”
Perhaps
 . 255
“Perhaps she was not So credulous as you imagined !’* exclaimed her Ladyship laughing: “you and I, my friend, have a long account to Settle when we arc more at leisure — but hasten, Pemberton, to the Marquis, and conducst him hither.’*
“A few minutes carried us to cumber land street — We found osmond with Lord Beaumont, who had called to inquire whether you had received any tidings from me, and was endeavouring to inspire his companion with confidence; for our friend had acquainted him with the manner in which he was circumstanced.
“I congratulate you, ” cried my Lord, on our entrance: “I foresee good news — here is the brother of your Julia i”
Pemberton stew to osmond, and embraced him — he begged he would pardon his late behaviour, and grant him his friendship as frankly as he with pleasure gave Julia to his arms. Never did 1 behold any one more amazed than the Marquis — he Seemed torpid for Some Seconds— — last, recovering himself, he expressed many acknowledgments to Lord Pemberton for Such a proof of esteem, and assured
him

him he should ever find him zealous to promote Lady julia’s happiness, and deserving of his lordship’s regard. He ashed if he might not be permitted to attend Lady Julia?
You must check your inmatience a little, ” replied Pemberton : She is gone
to the play with Lady Louisa Montague; but my mother is anxious to embrace your Lordship.”
“Myuncle aiccompanied us backtoport
man square -- -- Lady Pemberton met OSMOND
with the tenderness due to one who is Soon to become her Son. — She entreated him to impute her past refusal of his alliance to the ridiculous pique that Subsisted between the Duke and her family, which from his grace’s example she blushed to ressedt on. The Marquis poured forth an effusion of gratitude for her kindness, that affected her not a little.
“You have all acted” ” I, “much to the duke’s fatisfaflion — now comes my part. His Grace hopes to behold osmond and his fair bride tomorrow night — his last; words to me were, “Montague, let
me not be disappointed.” Lady Pemberton — ^
 . 25?'
r ' ' *
tonne — my Lord— — you not wish that he should See his Son in his dying moments? And yet he will deny himself that comfort, unless he Sees a daughter at the Same time. Is it necessary, that to wait the tedious custom of making new clothes, new furniture, bespeaking jewels, equipages, and a catalogue of nonsensical vanities, a man’s last hour should be rendered miserable ?’*
“By no means, they Said — they would do whatever lay in their power to gratify the Duke.
“osmondthanked them gracefully; and, presenting the paper his father and himself had signed to Pemberton, told him, that, a drawing marriage articles would require more time than could be given on So preshng an occasion, he must beg the favour of his Lordship to have that paper filicd iiva manner consonant to Lady julia’s interest, and only implored he would keep in remembrance that his father possessed a very large fortune. When he returned to London, he meant, in the formal method, to have writings executed which should ratify the terms his name stood to. y Lord Pemberton ashed his mother to
allow
MASQ.IIERAD.DS5 OR,
allow him to transad: that business according to his inclination?
Certainly !” she answered.
“Pardon me, my Lord, ’’' cried he,
“for what I do. but thus I dispofe of
the paper” — and he threw it into the fire“ “is nothing that might not be left to the honour of a man, who would willingly have given up Such a fortune as the duke’s to have gained Julia — No more on this head — make in your own time what Settlement you please!”
“Your generosity, dear Pemberton, ” exclaimed Osinond, “is very noble : and I shall certainly demonstrate my affection lor Lady Julia in a way that her friends must approve — Will your Ladyship then permit me to hope (with her consent) that I shall introduce her to my father as his daughter tomorrow night ?” r
“Most readily, my Lord !” answered Lady Pemberton — He kissed her hand —
“Return, dear Madam, the Same reply to another Supplication, and my happiness will surpass a mortal’s — Prevail on Julia to let the ceremony be performed this even
teg —
s
«
  *5^
ing — a licence can be procured, and a Clergyman in waiting, against she returns.’^
“Oh, thou unconscionable creature!’^ exclaimed Lady Pemberton.
“Your Ladyship must perceive the necessity of my request— — can Set out early tomorrow for Belfont; otherwise our journey will be greatly delayed — Lord Pemberton, is the Bishop of W — — — — — in town ^ I am Sure he will gladly attend on So joyful an occasion will you accompany
me to him
“With all my heart, ” replied Pemberton: “I Saw him this very day, and hope we shall find him at home.” osmond Snatched up his hat, and was eager to be gone: but Lady Pemberton interfered, and declared that nine o’clock tomorrow morning would be time enough for the performance of the ceremony — they might Set out immediately afterwards, and reach Belfont with great ease at night, travelling post, and making no delay on the road.
osmond alked, if he might presume to: beg of her Ladyship and Lady Almeria to go down with them > She regretted that it was not in their power, alleging that
meria
«
a6o MASCLUERADE Sj dr,
meria was too much indisposed to leave home, and she could not quit her. He expressed infinite concern at being deprived of Such a pleasure, and at the occasion of it. He turned to Pemberton, and made him the like entreaty : he answered, he would have the honour to attend him. “My good Lord Beaumont, ’- cried the Marquis, you have often Sought to alarm me, by owning yourself my rival — yet I am bold enough to wish that your lord ship’s regard for Lady Julia may never decrease— — that I may find her power shf sicient to induce you to accompany us to Peterborough.”
“You are a fine fellow truly !” replied Lord Beaumont; “and So you desire that I should die with envy! — No, no, osmond, I must be excused — take her from me at once, or you may have cause to dread the effe^s of So ardent, So youthful a passion as mine.”
“On osmond’s urging his petition, he told him ferioussy, he could not be So happy, as he was obliged' on Friday to go down to Bagshot for a week.
My dearest Frederick, ” Said the Marquis,
 . 261
iquis, taking his hand, “you were my companion in affliction— — shall I forget the trouble I gave you — nor your humanity let me hope that you will also be a witness of my joy, and make one in our party tomorrow.”
“I will See you married, my Lord, ” cried Frederick; “that gratification I must have — but you know how I am circumstanced, and that it is impossible for me to leave town at presents“
“and Ofmond proposed departing in quest of the Bishop, and a licence.
/
‘‘ We shall find you here on our return, Montaguecried Pemberton.
“Not unless you stay a great while, ” Said I.
“We shall take a hackney coach, ” an swered he“ “make the fellow drive as if he was escapingfrom the devil. I would not have Julia come in our absence for a thousand pounds. Should she do So, I implore that no person may inform her of what has happened. She thinks I have behaved cruelly in this affair — let me embrace the opportunity to re instate myself in her af
fcistions
/
262 masduerades; or,
sections, by Surprising her with the felicity
that awaits her -- -- But where are you
goings Sir Charles.?” “To join the Ladies at the play, ” replied I. “There it is! — you will destroy my Scheme.”
“Not I — I shall tell her nothing — allow
me however to acquaint my wife” - —
“Aye, and she will acquaint Julia.”
“You are mistaken — she can keep a secret.
. “then, upon your honour, that Julia shall not through your means arrive at the least knowledge of osmond’s being in London, or of our having consented to their marriage.”
“I did as he desired; and we Sallied forth on our different errands, leaving Lady Pemberton, Almeria, Lord Beaumont, and Frederick, sitting down to whist.”
The fourth ad was nearly over when Sir Charles finished — At the conclusion of if. Lady Mortimer leaned back, and with a Sarcastic countenance alked him what he thought of the performance he had been spectator to? He laughed — “I hope the dencument will be happy. Sir Charles ?”, cried she. ‘‘ I cherish that hope, my Last V ”
/
\
 . 263
dy, ” he answered : “I called in p®rtman square an hour ago, and my Lady Pemberton desired I would beg the favour of your Ladyship to return with Lady Julia and my wife to Supper there.”
“Icannot, indeed {” Said she — “my Lord expects three gentlemen to Spend the evening with him, and he will be disappointed, if I do not assist to entertain them — I promised not to wait the farce.”
The play was no Sooner ended, than one of her Servants announced at the box door, that her chair was ready, Mr. Bishop presented his hand, and led her out. As she passed us, I overheard Sir Charles tell her, not to retire early, for he would visit her and Lord Mortimer before he rested. — I was very impatient to be gone; and felt much fatisfatstion when Lady Seymour declared, that there was Such confusion in getting away from Drury-lane on a full night, that she never staid till the house broke up. Lord Seymour went out to See for their carriage mine had been ordered very Soon, and I ashed Julia if she was extremely Solicitous to See the Wedding ring? — elfe we would
retire
9
%
%
264 M A S QUE R A D E S j o R,
retire then. She assured me, that she was willing to attend me whenever I pleased,
As we were returning, Julia inquired of Sir Charles, whether he had heard any account of the Duke?
“Only that he is dangerousty ill, ” cried he: “his Situation must be deplorable I
think!”
He waved the Subject— — I dare Say Surprised, and mortified her. When the coach stopped in Portman square, how was I agitated !^ — The door opened, and Lord Pemberton flew to hand us out.
“Have you Succeeded, my Lord demanded Sir Charles.
“To my heart’s content!” replied Pemberton: “I am not ten minutes arrived.”
“Is anything the matter brother?” cried Julia.
“No, my dear.”
As we entered the hall, she exclaimed,
I am convinced that Some strange affair has happened! — Why did you run out of the house So precipitately to meet us? — Perhaps my mother — or Almeria” — “Be at rest, they are both well — I was eager to
inform
 , 265
inform you that -- -- Mournies has eloped
with a countryman of hers. — Let us go upstairs; Lady Pemberton will give you the whole story.’*
“Lord, brother, how absurd !’*
“You will be peevish, Julia, ” cried he, ^ as we ascended, no doubt, when you perceive who is impatiently waiting for you in the drawing room.*’
“The Duke of Suffolk, I suppose I — but I shall preserve my temper by avoiding him.”
“Upon my Soul, you shall not! — call me tyrannical — unfeeling — what you please — I have been used to those epithets from you — and will hear them once more. aster this night, I shall molest you no further.’* She was making to her apartment — but he led her back -- --
“Do not be pervcrfe, Julia — I Swear by all that is Sacred, I will conduct your lover to your dressing-room, if you sty thither!”
She blushed with anger, and told him, he was certainly very cruel!
“Aye, aye, I knew it” — he threw open the drawing-room door — “and now for the ivol.iy, N rest
266 M A S QUE R A D E S j OR,
rest, harbarcus., tyrannical she listened
not to him — her attention was engrossed by another object— — what pen can describe her appearance when she Saw of mond at her feet! — mine must fail in the attempt — Astonishment — — joy — fear, were blended in her countenance, and, beautifully as I have Seen her look, she was then more charming than ever. The emotions of her Soul were too violent — she fainted — and gave us great cause to think that the jest had been carried far enough to turn our delight into grief — it was So difficult a taste to recover her, that at one time I really imagined her breath had flown for ever. Lady Pemberton was dreadfully alarmed — Lord Pemberton execrated his ridiculous folly — and Osinond seemed within one degree only of distradion — The rest of us were ssying backwards and forwards to get volatiles, drops, cc. c. scarcely knowing what we ordered, or brought for her
relief -- Confusion never reigned more
triumphantly than it did this evening in Portman square for more than a quarter of an hour. At length we were restored to peace — she opened her eyes, and, on finding
W H A T Y O U WI L L 267
ing herself in the arms of her Henry, exclaimed,
“My friends are implacable — your father has my promise — Emily writes that Sedley is no assumed name — Sedley then is a false friend! — trust him no more, my dearest osmond !”
Sir Charles forced the Marquis to retire with him, that she might have time to calm her Spirits, and be informed of their happiness— — that he might regain a share of composure, for he was exceedingly affected. In a few minutes she became tranquil, and Lord Pemberton cautioussy acquainted her with the circumstances that had happened — she raised herself from the Sofa on which she was reclined — she clasped her hands, and with an edifying fervour returned thanks to Heaven.
On Lord ostnond’s entrance, she stood up with ineffable grace to receive him — He pressed her to his bosom. “I have betrayed great weakness, my Lord, ” cried she; “but I have been indisposed — I am easily overcome” — He interrupted her, and begged she would not by apologies destroy
N 2 the
e
a68 MAS CLUE RAD esj or,
the happiness he felt in thinking that her agitation arose from affection.
Lord Pemberton told her there was no delaying the ceremony that was to confirm her osmond^s beyond the next morning. She looked shocked — Surely, not tomorrow, my Lord!” exclaimed she; — “you cannot mean it should be performed tomorrow r'
“tomorrow indeed, my Julia !” cried the Marquis — “For heaven’s Sake do not refuse! Confider the condition my father Is in — every moment how precious! — deny not the dying request of my father !” His unfortunate situation, my Lord, affects me Sensibly; but do not let us shed tears of Sorrow on our marriage — A wedding and a funeral should never be paired | * — Tell the Duke we cannot think of happiness whilst he is in misery — that reason jnnst be grateful to him!”
“■ The present hours are propitious — if we do not profit of them, we may never again find Such — Should my father live (and I Sincerely hope he will), he may once
more be cruel — You know he is'capricious
— and
4 %
^ ‘ V i »
 . 26$
and having a petition he So humbly, So ardently implores, rejected, must offend him — it will probably dispose him to revoke his present good intentions
She Said she had no fears of the Sort, and appealed to Lady Pemberton whether it would not be better to wait a month oe two? — osmond showed Some impatience — he exclaimed, “Good God, Lady Julia, a month or two V He Seemed afraid of Lady pemberton’s answer; however, she Soon relieved him.
‘‘ My dear, ” cried her Ladyship, you are yet to learn, that, unless you accompany your friend to Belfont, his father will not See him; which is an indisputable argument for your compliance — But, were you exempt from this obligation. Sure it would be the height of barbarity not to gratisy a dying person who wishes to have the comfort of atoning for a fault f — I will mention another reason, that, no doubt, must carry Sufficient weight with you — If your nuptials are postponed, the unhappy Suffolk, on finding that Lord osmond is returned, will be outrageous — Much distress will he occasion you — We shall hear every
N 3 day
ayp MAS QUE R A D E S j or,
day of Some new quarrel, till at length that one of them has dropped — When you are Lady Ofmond, he can have no further hopes, and will through necessity then be at rest.”
\
This had a better effet on her than anything — She Was silent -- --,
“Indeed, my Sweet Julia, ” Said Lord Beaumont, “you deviate a little from your own Sensible character in making one objection — Why reludlant to oblige the man you love, and whose tried attachment to you demands every requital you can bestow ?”
“We will leave osmond, ” exclaimed her brother, “to prevail on her to consent with pleasure — consent she positively must ■ — He is in possession of the licence, and the Bishop of W. has promised to be here at nine o’clock tomorrow morning. Let us go downstairs where a collation is waiting. If they cliuse Supper, they will join us; but when I was a lover, 1 had Scarcely any appetite; ”
We repaired to the eating room — dumbwaiters were placed, and the Servants dismissed. Lady Pemberton regretted her
brother’s
>
 : 271
brother’s absence from London at this crisis
I blessed the circumstance, as a favour ordained by Providence, though I durst not say So. Her Ladyship also regretted, that she was unable to attend Julia to Peterborough. “To own the truth, I have always been taught to look on the Duke as So terrible a man, ” cried Almeria, “that, if I was well enough to accompany my sister, I believe I should imagine myself carried to the house of a great giant — and should expel to be devoured every instant — 1 can never — never be cordial to him !’*
I
This is the misfortune of an early prejudice 1” cried Lady Pemberton. “You must conquer it; or I shall appear culpable in my own eyes, for having given rise to it. — I am diitreffed about my poor Julia — to go down without a female companion” — >
Louisa” ” Almeria, “you are not afraid of the Duke; I beg you will pay him a visit with Julia !”
9
I answered that I would very readily; but Sir Charles declared he was apprehensive of my travelling So far with the expedition they would be obliged to use — to Say nothing of the disagreeable Scene that per
N 4 haps
Stya MASCLUER ADS; or,
/
‘ haps awaited them at Belfont. “The duke’s death, ^’ added Sir Charles, “might afford a Spectacle I could wish louisa to avoid in her present situation.”
“The Same reason holds good in respect of my wife, '* returned Lord Pemberton: “there is no necessity that either of them should be exposed to danger — I am Sure my Sister would not desire it!”
“That I am convinced of, ” replied Lady Pemberton. Perhaps Caroline will
“What, leave her little William, Madam Oh no! if she does, she will prove her affection for Julia to be great indeed !” In less than half an hour Lord osmond came down with a much happier countenance than ever I Saw him wear.
“Well, ” cried Pemberton, “have ypu prevailed ?”
tomorrow makes me blessed !” he exclaimed.
. \ ________________
“where is Julia ?”
“Retired to her apartment -- I have with
difficulty detained her even this short while
from it.”
I left the table, and went up to her. I
found
V
«
\
 . 27i
V I
found her giving Mournies orders for thek
^ 00 V
journey.
“And is it true, Ledy louise, **" pried she, “dat we are going to de Due de .wcffuiorlond*s ?**
“Aye," Said I; “your Lady will be married tomorrow to Lord osmond — to the man, Mournies, who has eaused So much disturbance to this family — who was sheld in abhorrence yesterday by Lord and Lady Pemberton I
“Saint joseph! — wat strange rrews 1 hear — Pauvre my Lor Due de Suffolk! — wat you get by your fighting, I wonder !*^.
Why, I believe, you are dilippointed that she is not to wed Suffolk,, instead oi osmond I"
• “Oh, mon Dieu, ' Madame, no f — Dear is good cause wy I no like de Due"' — She turned to Julia; Come,, come, wat for ^
— you cry because you no marry my Lor osmond — Sure you don’t crj now because you do marry him! — Well,, I am ver gladt. — he is, un brave cavalier,, and. ver prettjr too!"’
Julia could not help Smiling — I woulci have engaged her in discourse (which Is the
N 5 delight
#
I
274
delight of my heart) for Some time, but Julia bade her dispatch the directions she had given her, and she went into the next room. — My amiable friend and I had a great deal of conversation during the short time I staid with her. She did not fail to reproach me for imposing Lord osmond on her as Mr. Sedley. I at first affected Surprise at her accusation; but perceiving that osmond had discovered the cheat, I could no longer deny the charge, and defended myself as well as 1 could. You did notefcape Some degree of censure for the equivocal answer you made to her letter. I took my leave, promising to be with her between eight and nine in the morning. It wanted but a few minutes of twelve when we wished Lady Pemberton a good night. Lord osmond and Sir Charles Set me down at home, and then drove to dover street. You will find by the date of my letter, that I took up my pen immediately to give you the above account, which has employed me two hours. 7 hey returned just now, and Sir Charles tells me, that, at the marquis’s first entreaty, the mortimer’s con fcntcd to accompany him and his fair mif
irefs
 S
tress to Belfont. Their little boy is to be left with Lady Dowager Pemberton, dw ring their absence from London,
« T
* ' * ^
I was in portman fquare before the appointed time this morning. I flew to julia’s apartment, and found her dressed in a most elegant dejhabille, calculated at once for her nuptials, and her journey. She really looked a celestial creature! She was writing.
“So Soon ready, Julia V cried I: “you have had but little rest I fear.”
\
“Why, not much, ” replied she: “it is a disagreeable thing, louisa, to be So hurried on an awful occasion !” — “Right, ” Said I; “but you would have been glad Some months ago to think that you should give your hand to Lord osmond, even in this hasty manner.”
She sighed“
“it indeed be true, Julia, that human nature is So perverse as to contemn the value of a blessing when in our power, which we are miserable to obtain whilst we
N 6 regard
/
; M A S QUE R A D E S; o R,
regard it as entirely out of our re^ch? — » Are you become indifferent to my Lord since last night
“What have I done that requires Such an observation — Such a. question? Surely, it is natural that I should wish for more "time! It gives you no room to Sufpedt that I am insensible of my happiness. Believe me, louisa, each moment that I am with the Marquis, affords encrease to my affection— — 1 have hardly recovered tl^ shock I received on beholding him So unexpectedly. I look back on what passed : san illusion, and can Scarcely think I am awake. I have been writing to Lady Westbrook — would to heaven I could See her, and my two other friends! — I received a note from my Lord as Soon as I was up, to say, that Mortimer and Caroline have agreed to go down with us to Peterborough, What an instance of tenderness in osmond to obtain me that satisfaction!! an instance of goodness in them, to leave their infant, of whom they are so doatingly fond, and consent at Such short warningto a journey of the fort? — I wish, Louisa, you could with Ihfety be of our party — but it is not
* to
4^.
m
 .
to be thought of. It happens unluckily that my mother and Almeria cannot leave town. I would have all that I love go with me I believe; for I tremble at the idea of being thrown amongst strangers — This childish folly is ridiculous! — still «. do you imagine, louisa, I might never have cause to remember my brother’s pre didlion — Might not Westmoreland, if he recovers, treat me in a manner different from what I have been accustomed to from the kindest relations a young creature was ever blessed with ?”
“Now, ” Said I, “your doubts of Lord osmond are evident! He will never Suffer his Julia” -- -
She laid her hand over my mouth, - — -
Hush! — 1 know he will not i am Sensible already of my weakness, and that he is deserving of a better partner — I blush for what I have uttered. — My mother told me that Sophia would be here” — She looked at her watch — “^goodgod, how late it grows! - — and how Soon shall I be carried from most of those friends whom I used to imagine I
o
would gladly be Separated from for my Lord osmond’s fake!”
To argue her out of this conssict I found
would
.$78 masq^ueradess
would not answer; T therefore Soothed her with every hope of the marquis’s kindness, and assured her she would yet bless the exchange she made from their to his protection.
“You have no cause, Julia, ” added I,
to harbour one uneasy thought. Take a retrospect of the past — Have you not made the duty of a child your first point of view ^ You obeyed its harsh dictates, though inclination Sought to shake your.constancy » you refused to marry qsmond clandestinely — you refused to read his letters — to write to him — to See him. Many of his friends and yours strove to reason away your pious objections to each article they could not Succeed — and still you loved him fervently — there lies the merit! — and behold how the Almighty hath rewarded you! He gives you to him with the consent of your family, and through the Supplication of his father - — and, what is yet more, osmond receives you impressed with the highest idea of your virtue — your discretion — and your attachment! Here is an excellent moral that will be of Service to Some unmarried ladies who may know your story.”
I begged not to interrupt her writing itva&i ' any
 .
any longer. She finished her letter, whilst I stood at a window, viewing, with Some fensations of melancholy, the expedition with which Lord gfmond’s and Lady pemberton’s Servants were fixing trunks, caravans, cc. on a coach and chaise that were to convey the two female attendants and the valets to Peterborough. I could not refrain from dropping a tear at the notion of parting with my gentle, amiable friend, though for a short time. — Lord of mond’s chaise drove to the door, out of which got Lord Mortimer and himselfi I told J Lilia of it. She grew pale and red alternately — I really felt for her. Lord Mortimer entered her dreshng rbom — he caught her in his arms — he congratulated her in the warmest terms, and was as much transported, as if it was his bridal day.
Oh that Westbrook was here!” exclaimed he. “And Emily and Lady Caroline added Julia.
“You will see them when you return to town, rny dear, ” cried I; “when your mind is more'composed — when you can without allay join in the universal joy this happy
event inspires your friends with.” Lord
Pem
\s(y masq^ueradesj or;
Pemberton, Lord Beaumont, the Bishop oif
W -- -- -, and Mr. Montague, stepped from
Lord pemberton’s carriage, and in a few minutes after Lord mortimer’s travellinsc
o
coach brought Caroline, Lady Pemberton, Sir Charles, the nurse, and child. Mortimer went down to pay his compliments, and Lady D. Pemberton entered. She encouraged Julia to dilpel her fears, and was endeavouring to rally her out of them, when Mournies appeared in a great bustle. She addressed herself to Lady Pemberton— —
“you have no idea wat my Lor have de cruelty to desire! — dat I will go away dis instant.”
“To be shre, Mournies!” laid her Ladyship; it is right to do So.”
“Wat go away, and no See my young lady marry,! — Ah fie, Madame! — si my Lor Pemberton have no humanite, you have,, my Ledy!”
I entreated that she might stay — Julia took her hand —
“Pray, Madam, let her be obliged! — « Yes,, Mournies — my mother consents — • you must not be made uneasy.”
Heir
I
W HAT YOU WILL. 2s1
*
Her countenance brightened up; she stroked julia’s hand, and viewed her with the Same delight as if she was her daughter,
“My Lor Ofmond have une Belle Femme, Lady louise; n’est ce pas vray, Mournies called I., ady Pemberton aside, to consult with her about Something relating to my friend’s apparel — they left the room together, and in a few minutes of mond tapped at the door. On his ad mishon he threw himself at julia’s feet -- he gazed on her with admiration — with rapture — and told her, that, before the celebration of the rite which made her his, he must in that posture Swear, that every at of his life should result from his wish to please her— — if her happiness depended upon his affection, fidelity, and attention— — he would render it complete. Julia Seemed to forget all anxiety the moment she beheld him; and Such another man I believe no woman ever beheld. He looked exquisitely handsome; and it was a moot point, which object in their different style was most beasttisul He tried the ring upon her finger. “Allow me to fee,"
cried he, ‘^whether it answers the measure
I took
M
2s2 M AS(^UERADES; or,
I took last night.” It did exaistly. He
kissed it — —
“What power lies in this diminutive golden circle! Soon will it destroy the existence of Julia Slerbert, and give life to Julia osmond !”
I ashed her, if I should Seal the letter she had written; for I fupposed she would have little leisure to do it herself? She answered, I should have time enough after her departure. However, I Seized the opportunity to retire to her closet, not doubting but the absence of a third person would be most agreeable to Lord osmond.
In a little while she called to me — Lord Pemberton came to tell them that every one was ready, and waited for their appearance. He offered Julia his hand; Lord osmond presented his to me; and we repaired to the drawing-room. As we went in. Lord Pemberton perceived mour nies and Souville — —
“What here still !” exclaimed he; “did I not desire you an hour since to be gone
‘‘it
^ T
« I
ar.
WHAT Y O U W I L L 2s3
“It is ver true, my Lor, ” replied she.
And why was I not obeyed ■ “because I must stay to see my Ledy marry. Monsieur Souville desire de Same ting; after dat, we will go in one petit moment — have lite patience!”
He Saw it was in vain to contend the matter; therefore gave it up. She treats them all without much ceremony, as she cannot divest herself of a notion, that they are mere children to her.
The Bishop, on Lord pemberton’s bowing to him, began the Service. Julians apprehensions returned — her varying cheek, and trembling form, denoted that they did : however, she went through the office better than I expe<51: ed. As Soon as the Bishop pronounced the nuptial benediction, and gave them joy. Lord osmond with a bent knee kissed her hand, and uttered acknowledgments for her condefeending goodness in agreeing on Such short notice to bids him, and make his father’s last moments easy. He wished the instant in which he ever forgot it, might be his lash
Every one Saluted her, and made their
2s4 M ASQ.UERADES; or,
congratulations to both. Lady Pemsbertos embraced them, and prayed for theif felicity.
“Now, ” cried the reverend Lord, “I may boast of having joined the loveliest couple in the world
Lady mortimer’s fine eyes Sparkled —
“Dear Madam, ” addreshng her mother, “deign to acknowledge, in full assembly, that you forgive Such of us as assisted of mond to obtain that prud.jh girl !”
Forgive ye, my dear! Indeed I repent of having opposed your measures and his happiness So long! And I declare, with the utmost sincerity, that 1 am now delighted at julia’s choice.”
When we had breakfasted. Sir Charles proposed Setting out. We arole — Julia with tearful eyes threw herself into her mother’s arms — She bid Aimeria and Sophia adieu — She turned to me: “Louisa—
— dear louisa, farewell! -- -- The most
joyful circumstances, I find, have their alloy.’’.
I wept and could make her no answer.
The rest of the party embraced us. Mr.
Montague took Lady osmond’s hand, and
led
 . 285
ted her down. He put her in the chaise. Lord osmond stepped in, and Fidele leapt after. They drove off; and Lady mortimer’s carriage Succeeded theirs, into which Sir Charles handed her, and then followed, as did her brother and her hus band. They were all out of sight in a minute, and carried my heart along with them. — You cannot imagine with what ennui we regarded each other. For my part, I felt as if I was abandoned by every one I loved. My Lord Bishop and Mr, Montague wished us a good morning, promising to dine in portman fquare. We prevailed on Lady Pemberton to take an airing. Lord Beaumont and I offering to attend her. As we were going to the coach, we met my brother, who I fuppole contrived to dilpel the gloom that was visible on the countenances of the sisters we had just left.
After passing two hours in the Park, I came home, and must now prepare to
dress.. Lady Pemberton insisted on my
joining at dinner Such of the party of this morning as remain in London. Lord Clermont will be with us.
V --
I wonder
#
286
%
I wonder how Suffolk will behave on hearing that osmond is in posseshon of Julia. You abhor him, becausehehas been a Source ofmifery to our charming friends; but as he can no longer interfere with their happiness, and as he must feel his disappointment very keenly, I am Sure you will allow me to pity him.
I easily fancy your pleasure on receiving this account — it can only be equalled by my own, in transmitting it to you.
Commend me to Lady Caroline, and Sir James; and be convinced that I am, dear Lady Westbrook,
Your most affeaionate
\
Louisa Montague,
\
i
. t
r
f
\

t
 . isi
t
I
J‘<7 Latfy Westbrook.
Belfont^ pajl mne oulock,
I Have left my husband to flirt with Julia — Lord osmond is penning a letter of high flown acknowledgments (1 prefurne) to my mother — Sir Charles is lamenting to louisa his absence from her — Lord Pemberton, like a dutiful Son, is recounting to my mother also the reception we have met with at this noble dwelling — and I, emulous to copy Such attention to one's friends, in writing the instant one arrives from a long hurrying journey, (though/i2/i^ii^(i to deaths) have determined to addressyou, and give a Specimen that I am as little deficient irt point of politeness as the elegants I have mentioned.” Is not this Mrs. pelham’s style?
louisa assured me that you should hear from her very fully by this night’s post; So that i need not give you a Second view
of the Scene in London.
osmond
/
s
m
osmond was apprehensive that julia’s health and mine would Suffer by travelling with So much Speed, and without refreshment. We stopped for fresh horses at Baldock. He consulted with my three companions, whether we had not better alight for an hour at Bigglefwade? They approved the motion; and he told one of the footmen to get on, and overtake the Servant (whose office it was to prepare relays), and desire him to bespeak as good a dinner as could be procured in So short a time. We found everything ready and in tolerable order when we got there, which was about four o’clock. Julia Seemed well, and her Spirits composed. This delay impeded the progress we expected on leaving town to make in our journey, considerably dark, cold evenings are unfavourable for travelling we did not
reach belsont till between eight and nine. On our entering the hall, we found it thronged with domestics, who were no doubt anxious to regain a sight of their young Lord, and catch a view of his bride. To the marquis’s eager inquiry about
hi
%

\
*
 . 289
his father, many voices answered, He is better, my Lord.” We were conducted to a large apartment adjoining the hall, and were Scarcely Seated, when a venerable looking man approached us; and, with a joy I cannot describe, welcomed osmond, who Seized his hand, and expressed infinite Satisfaction at Seeing of him. He introduced him to' Julia as a valued friend of his. You will judge in that character how gracioussy she received Freebourne! Sir ' Charles retired with him to the duke’s chamber. In a short Space he returned, and Said his Grace waited impatiently to behold Lord and Lady osmond — “He intreats that your Ladyship, ” added Sir Charles, addressing himself to me, “Mortimer, and Pemberton, will also honour him with your presence.” julia’s colour fled. Olmond, attentive to every minute circumstance that concerns her, pressed her hand to his bosom, and besought her not to be alarmed.
“The Duke, ” cried he, is totally metamorphosed— — -- composed, my love — I dare aver that you will like him after this interview !”
vol. IV O We
Zgo MAS Q, U ER AD E Sj or.
We ascended the staircase, Poor julia’s limbs trembled I believe — I am Sure mine did; and I would very gladly have dis pensed with the favour of Seeing his Grace.
Dod: or W. met us at the door of a magnificent apartment. He Said he was impatient to pay his respedts to us. I was lb terrified, I could only curtsy to him.
“Where is osnnond V cried the Duke, with an anxious tone.
I'he Marquis led iny sister towards the bed — they both dropped on their knees — and osmond muttered Something which 1 could not distindly hear.
“Oh my Son !” exclaimed the Duke — ** my children — my dear children! — may Heaven bless you both -- -- -- and pardon
JCOC!
He kissed Julia — he held her in his arms more than a minute, and then embraced osmond with the Same fondness — He Sobbed audibly, and was dreadfully agitated. At length he became Serene — he entreated they would forgive his past criminal behaviour, since he had atoned for it as far as he was able.
They
 . igt
They assured him that they remembered nothing but his kindness — he had rendered them the happiest of mortals, for which their gratitude was unutterable.
The Duke praised their generosity, in affording him the comfort of Such an avowal. He declared the remaining part of his existence should be laid out in striving to oblige them, and in proving himself a tender and affe<stionate parent.
His Grace begged of us to draw near.' He Saluted my hand, and thanked me for rhy goodness in accompanying Julia and his Son to Belfont. “You have Saved that lovely creature. Madam, *’ cried he,
from a situation not calculated for one of her delicacy. Had she been left to the Society of men only, in a strange habitation, circumstanced as she is, I should have felt for her extremely. By this instance of humanity to her, your Ladyship has conferred an obligation on me, which I shall never forget
CV _
The Duke acknowledged in warm terms his high sense of the favours Lord Pemberton and my mother had done him, in accepting of his concessions, and in granting
O 2 his
292 MAS(LUERADES; or,
his request; “a request, my Lord, ” added he, “on which my life depended. All former animosities shall be buried in oblivion From hence let us be on a foot of intimacy — let us have but one family. 'i’hat boy and girl have tied a knot of friendship between our houses, which I trust will never be disunited! I Swear, in the prtscnce of Heaven, and of you all, to become a different man !”
• You know pemberton’s disposition, my good Emily; that he is gentle as zephyr to ail who are humbled by calamity, or a. conviction of their errors. You will therefore suppose the polite, astectionate manner, in which he answered his Grace.
The Duke took my Lord mortimer’s
hand — -- --
You are attached to Harry, my Lord - — for his Sake, then, endeavour to esteem his father. I am grateful for the honour
your Lordship does us in this visit !-
Montague — my dear Montague — instru<5t
me how to thank you Sufficiently” -- -
“Not a word, my Lord, I beg, in that style !” cried Sir Charles. “My ardent yyishes are gratified, and hours of felicity
await
 93
await us all! — — Certainly dodor W. thinks your Grace is in need of Some repose
aster this exertion I -- Suffer us to
retire.”
Doctor W. Seconded the proposal.
“A few words more — and I consent — Freebourne, bring me the packet 1 committed to your charge this evening.”
He was obeyed in an instant.
“Sir Charles, ” Said the Duke, I
made Mr. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- work hard in your
absence.” He delivered the, parcel into julia’s hands, “receive ihese papers, my diear Lidy osmond, in requiral for the insolence with which 1 created your amiable letter — and, when you give them to your husband, tell him to make his'acknowledgments to you — they are your prefenc to him, not mine. At my death I will bestow on him a Similar one.”
Julia kiss d his band — My Lord, your kindness to rne — Such unmerited obligations — they quite oppress me — 1 cannot
tell vou” -- -- and she burst into tears.
“I do not wish you to do it, my child — try to love your father — ^ — it is all he alks.”
O 3 He
294
He again embraced her tenderly. of mond threw himself on his knees, and with energy expressed his gratitude.
“I tell you, Harry, / have done nothing
for you — here your tribute is due” -- -- -
And he put julia’s hand into her lord’s. With the other she presented him the packet, but was unable to Speak, Fie clasped her to his bosom, and assured the Duke that the Solicitude he had demonstrated to make them happy, was Sensibly felt by both; and to evince themselves deserving of it, would be their united study.
His Grace took leave of us for the night, and desired Julia to be careful that her guests were well entertained.
Dear Emily, what stings of conscience did I endure on quitting his apartment, for the wicked petitions I formerly offered up respedling him! — I am in love with the Duke — I plainly perceive it is not entirely from his mother osmond inherits that fascinating address which many women’s peace have fallen a victim to. When his father pleases, he can exert the same talent, 1 find, though in an inferior degree
— but
\
I
 . 295
— but osmond, with this faculty, owns every virtue and amiable quality.
On our return to the parlour, the Marquis, at Sir charles’s request, unsealed the packet. On the inside of the cover was written, in the duke’s own characters, the following lines :
“enclosed is a Deed of Ashgnment to my Son Henry Rivers, Marquis of osmond, of my Dorsetshire and of my Berkshire estates. When I die, my Will possesses him of all I at present own in the world, excepting a few trifling legacies to my principal servants. This method I take to convince my dear Harry, that my penitence for what cannot be recalled is actual; and I trust his generosity will not allow him to harbour an idea, that my purposes of amendment will vanish with my illness. Another reason I have for making over to him the above estates is, that his bridal joys may not be imperfect from the apprehension of his dependence on me for the Support of his admirable Julia in the style to which she has been
O 4 accustomed.
\
296
accustomed, and to which she is efititled by every qualification.
“The liouse in St. Jaines’ square is osmond’s. If he and Lady osmond chuse
to reside in it, it shall be new furnished at my cosh directly, in the completesr manner — if not, they are at liberty to Sell it; and any other they approve of, I will have furnished equally.
“Jewels I mean to present mydaughter with; but not to deter my Son fntm doing the Same, by mentioning this article.
Notes for two thousand pounds are alsh enclosed, to defray his immediate expenses.
Westmorland.’*
V
Judge, my dear Emily, how penetrated the Marquis was at Such an instance of the duke’s munificence. — He carried the paper to Julia— —
“is every anxiety banished from my breast !” cried he : “for my own Sake, I despise wealth; but ready as you have ever been to accommodate your wishes to my Scanty fortune, I must have been continually distreffcd at feeing you debarred of
many
\
 . 297
many gratifications, which, from our conversation this day, I perceive, your prudence would have deemed Superfiuous. Montague, Julia and I had determined never to make an ap^dication to my father for pecuniary assistance.”
Doctor W. appeared highly delighted at beholding our amiable couple. He reminded my Sister of her illness at windsor; and told her that he had often promised her happiness with her Henry., when she was incapable of knowing who Spoke to her. He assures us the Duke will do well; and Says, that, if he perseveres to shake off his disorder in the manner he has done within the last twenty-four hours, he might (with infinite caution) be removed to London in about a fortnight, to which place his Grace is very Sollicitoiis to get. This intelligence makes me very happy, as it will restore Julia and her Lord to their friends sooner than I expected.
dodsor W. is called to town. He sets out early in the morning, and has been so obliging as to offer to take our letters with him. ‘mine he is to dispatch to you by the post on his arrival.
Lord
\
298
lord Osinond has entreated, that he may have the honour of Seeing a person to whom he is So much indebted, whenever the Doctor can bestow a leisure hour on him; declaring, that to cultivate his further acquaintance, is an object he has much at heart. Doctor W. bowed, and answered him in a very complimentary strain.
Great as my affection is for my Sister and osmond, I cannot think of staying with
them more than a week. I have a thou.
. •
anxieties about my poor little William, though I am Satisfied that he experiences as much tenderness where he is, as be could do from me. My mother is all goodntss — still I wish to be with him. — My brother. Sir Charles, and my Lord, will leave bel font at the Same time. -- -
I told Almeria, when I bade her adieu, that she certainly had a presentiibent of this wedding, and assumed a convenient indisposition to avoid a few days Separation from Lord Clermont.
She looked highly offended; and I stew from her indignation which I dare Say she was unj ustenough to make him feel the
first
 . 299
first moment they met. However, she has in truth had a siia hr fever, that I trust we shall find her perfectly recovered of.
, I hope, to meet you. Sir James, and Lady Caroline, in London, when I arrive.
1 am called to Supper — So farewell, my dear Emily. lam.
Your most affectionate
I
I
Caroline Mortimer.'
\
• ^
• »
FINIS.,
- 4
9
0
t
/
9
r ^
\
printed for J. BE V,
No, 28, Pater noster Row.
\
*• 1 HE HTSTCRY or EL'ZA WARWICK.
In Two Volumes fmail 0£luvo, Price 5s. sewed, of' 6s. bound.
-- — Vaulting Arabition, that o’erleaps itself.
And falls on t’ other fide.” -- — —
“This IS an entertaining tale, related in easy and agreeable, and, where the occasion requires, in pathetic language: it is calculated to touch the springs of tender fymparhy; and, notwithstanding its distressing catafirophe, is better adapted to produce a good moral effeiff, than many of those agreeable Rories in which virtue is made at safe triumphant. We bear this testimony to the merit of Eliza Warwick, not because the writer has respectfully solicited merej., but becaufeyv/ivee requires it.”
Ste Monthly re’vlcvj^ May, ij'jz.
7. THE GENEROUS sistera Novel, By a Lady. In Two Pocket Volumes, Price 5;. sewed, and 6s. bound.
3. friendship in a NUNNERY; or. The
American Fugitive. Containing a full Defciiprion of the Mode of Education and Living in Convent Schools, both on the low and high Pension;; Manners and Cbaradlets of the Nuns; the Arts praftifed on young Minds; and their baneful Effedfs on Society at large. By a Lady. In Two Volumes, Twelves, Price 5s. sewed, or 6s. bound.
Those who to Convents fly, will sadly find.
That danger, vice, and woe of every kind,
Are surely met nvith there, not lejt behind.
4. LET
✓
Books printed for J. Bew.
4* LETTERS supposed to have been written by YORJC^ and E: IZ.A. Neatly printed on a fine Paper, Tt) Two Pocket Volumes. The same Size as sterne’s other Works. Price 5s. sewed, or s bound.
'.....that Sacred sense of woe.
Which none but Friends and Lovers know
Akenside.
>
The Editors of the Critical review for Jaly 1779, after giving copious ext.a£ls from these entertaining volumes, begin and conclude their remarks as follow: “The style and manner of these Letters bear so jlrung a resemblance to those of the same title which were the genaine produfhon of Mr. Sterne, that, were we not told by the Editor, that they we; e only imitations, they might with great appearance ot justice be aferibed to that writer.”
“The author of these Letters has taken up the fubjefl where the Letters between Vaiick and Eliza ended, and, to preserve the greater appearance of originality, has adopted the circumstances which governed the mutual and singular attachment of those personages. These Letters, in genera!, have a moral tendency, and abound in such sentiments as are calculated to improve the heart.”
r. BRITISH REMAINS; or, A Colleaion of antiquities rehting to the BRITONS :
Comprehending, i. A concise History of the Lords Marchers; their Origin, Power, and con quells in Wales,
ji. The
Books printed for J. Bew.
II The Arms of the Ancient Nobility and Gentry of North wales.
III A Letter of Dr. Lloyd, Bishop of St. ^faph’s, concerning Jeffrey of monmouth’s History.
IV An Account of the Discovery of America, by the Welch, more than 300 Years before the Voyage of Columbus.
'V A celebrated Poem of Tallefin, translated into Sapphic Verse.
The whole selected from Original MSS. and other authentic Records.
To which are also added, MEMOIRS of EDWARD LLWYD, Antiquary, transcribed from a Manuscript In the Museum, Oxford. By the Rev,
N. OWEN, jun. A. M. “Sparfa coegi.” Price 3s.
[To PARENTS In general, and all those who are entrusted with the EDUCATION of the BRITISH YOUTH.]
6. THE HISTORICAL MIRROR; or, BIOGRAPHICAL MISCELLANY : For the Instruction and Entertainment of Youth, -- -- In which are
exhibited the most striking Sentiments and Examples upon those, and only those. Branches of Duty in which they arc more particularly interested, viz. Religion, I Humanity, Veracity,
Filial Duty, Benevolence, Justice,
Love to Brethren, Patience. Industry, Temperance,
And a modest and submissive Refpefi: to their Elders, and particularly to their Teachers, and those who have the Care of their Education,
The
«
Books printed for J. Bew,
The whole improved and enlivened, at proper intervals, with Several admired Converfation pieces, on thctmportant subjects abovementioned, from the w^iitings of the amiable Xenophon. handlbme ly printed in one Volume, Duodecimo. Price 3s. neatly bound. — Good Allowance to Schoolmasters, et
‘
7. DIRECTIONS for the MANAGEMENT
of CHILDREN, from the Time of their Birth to the Age of Seven Years; and a plain and full account of every Disorder to which they are subject, as well as of those peculiar to the Female Sex; with variety of efficacious and easy Remedies for each Disease, feleisted from the bed: Authors j whereby any Woman may be enabled to prescribe, safely and successfully, for herfelsi Children, or Acquaintance; with lnllru£tions for improving the Complexion, preferviug and Ilrengthening the Sight and Hearing, and rendering the Teeth beautifully white and found, to extreme old age; and variety of useful, innocent, and approved Cofmetics of every kind.
By M. A. CLARKE, M. D.
And Professor of Midwifery. Price is. 6d.
8. EVERY MAN HTS OWN PHYSICIAN. By JOHN THEOBALD, M. D. The Sixth Edition, with considerable Additions. Pike 2s.
9. KISSES. A Poetical tran(lation of the BA » SIA of JOHANNES SECUNDUS NICOLAIUS. With the Original Latin, and an Essay on his Life
and
x^ooics prifiicq roi X3£vv ♦
*ncl Writings. And the Epithalamium newly translated. The THIRD EDITION, with considerable
Additions. Elegantly printed in Royal Price p.s.. sewed, or los. 6d. bound; and embellished with a inoft beautiful Frontispiece, representing the Origin of Kiiles, df fgned by Mortimer, and a Portrait of Secundus, from a Painting of Scorellius, both engraved by Bartolozzi, with lirlt Impressions of the Plates.
Also, a Second Edition of the above Work, neatly printed in Crown Odlavo, price s. bound, with good Impressions of the same Frontispiece.
10. [By the same Tranflatoist SONNETS and ODES, translated from the Italian of PE FRARCH; with the original Text, and some Account of his Life. Handiomely printed on a fine Paper, price 3 s. sewed.
11. MEMOIRS of the LIFE and W RITINGS of ' SAMUEL FOOT, Esq. the Englifii Aristophanes. To which are added, the Jokes, Raparrees, Bon mots, Puns, and Good Things said by that g'^eat Wit and excenti'ical Genius. A new Edition (with very considerable Additions of Jokes, Puns, Bon. Mors, cc. C.) price is, 6d.
Where be your gibes now? your gambols? your flashes of merriment, that were wont to fet the table in a roar? Shakespeare.
The Editor assures the Public, that no Jokes, c. Szc, are introduced into the above Collection but what are really Mr. foote’s, or have been generally ascribed to him.
%
