  ﻿\
• • • - ‘
*
A
i
)
t
THE
{

/
%
«
% ■
\
\
\
. S
I



DEDICATED
WITH ALL DUE DEFERENCE AND RESPECT,
TO THAT VERY RESPECTABLE BODY OP MEN,
THE MERCHANTS Cf TRADERS
OF THE
BRITISH EMPIRE.
Gentlemen,
That the hasty Production of two Short Months, the greater part of which has been engaged
in the humble pursuits of my avocation, Should afford leisure to the Author to produce a Work, in all points So correfpondently just
3
as
DEDICATION.
as to meet that encouragement it otherwise might have done, the candid judicious reader will allow could Scarcely be expected; the idea that gave rise to the opinions thus humbly brought into notice, are the con Sequence of fbme little observation, and much feeling, resulting purely from the interest I have in the prosperity of the state, and the happiness and independence of the commercial world, forming, as it does, so very estential a part of it; if the original idea is rather stightly pursued, and extraneous matter introduced, in order to render it Somewhat more agreeable to the younger part of my
readers.
DEDICATION.
readers, and to make it, at the same time, interesting to the lovely and amiable part of the other Sex, I trust the desire of So doing will
excuse the deviation, it being intended
only faintly to portray to the intelligent reader what has
eventually carried misery into many truly respectable families.
I have the honour to be.
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient very humble Servant,
THOMAS BOLAS
eajlaane, Walviorth,
* •»

THE
A U T H O R’«
ADDRESS
TO TUB
R £ A D £ R.
Neceditas non habet legesj
Is an old maxim, much in point; Which many a noble mind obliges.
When his affairs are out of joint; urg’d by th’ impet’ous of the cafe, T’ exert the utmost of his skill.
To make things wear a different face, In order to remove the ill;
That like his Shadow haunts the fccrm. Still ever constant on his light,
A plague as fettled as the spleen,
A sure companion every night.
Those hours that nature gave to rest.
To him but little joy afford 5 Sleeping or waking still unblest 5
His feeling mind for ever gor’d.
Not for himself, he feels for those Who deeply Share In his dlstrefs Who kindly anxious interpose Each winning art to make it lef$ :
’tis to the public’s feeling mind,
I make this dernier appeal.
convinc’d I only there can find,
What private friendship will not heal: Humble as i’m disposed to think Those talents nature kindly gave.
Sill i’m ambitious not to fink
Down to the mean, the sordid Have; What tho’ I write to boil the pot.
To give my infant prattlers bread.
To drive far distant from my cot,
What every feeling mind must dread —
Chill penury and all her train Of evils that attendant wait.
Will cease to give my bosom pain, Which soon will settle and dilate. Should I to public favour owe,
What private friendsliip hath deny’d, My heart with gratitude will glow, And every anxious care lubside :
w.
Never from my warm feeling breast. Shall public favour once be driven. Never hill I fink down to rest,
And yield my spirit up to heaven.
THE

LETTER I.
MISS CAROLINE hartlevs
T O
MISS JOHNSON.
MY DEAR EMILY,
HE unexpe<5l: ed but happy interview I So fortunately had with my amiable and very kind friend, miss johnsonyat Harrowgate, last autumn
VOL. I.
B
gave
2

gave me an inexpressible pleasure; the meeting was the more agreeable to me as I have anxioussy desired an bppor tunity to express my fenie of the very
kind and affedfionate offer made to me by your parents, on my Sudden departure from School, occasioned by the very great loss of Sortune my dear father Sustained, ' in consequence of his partiality for an only brother, the share you had always So kindly taken, in what relates to your Caroline, entitle you to command, what your politeness and delicacy So tenderly urge, the recital of my Samily misfortunes, which cease to be painsul in the degree they otherwise would be, when I know and am conscious I am u nbosoming myself to a lady, who has always felt, and indeed shown me a Sisterly regard, and who possesses more fine feeling and tenderness than is generally met with:
\
You

3
You are already acquainted that my leaving School was in consequence of my uncle, Henry wilson’s quitting England in the Ipring of 1774, without any previous notice to my father,
or any other relative; as Soon as it was known on the Royal Exchange, a very intimate and kind friend Sent an ex press to my father, at his Seat in Lincolnshire, to which he had retired upon his quitting business, Some fourteen or fisteen years before, the news So dreadful and So unexpe<5ted, would have gained no credit had it been received from a less relpedtable authority.
His immediate presence in town was absolutely necessary, therefore exerting himself to Sooth and calm the mind of my ever honoured mother, be prepared for his journey the follow
at an earlier hour than usual, in order to reach the capital with
mg morning,
b2
ail
4

all possible expedition, to prevent, if it was yet possible, the ruin of a brother, he very tenderly loved : He arrived in town the evening of the Second day, and immediately repaired to the house of the merchant, who had interested himself in the fate of my unhappy uncle; that gentleman, after kindly insisting upon his taking immediate refreshment, and engaging his stay while he remained in town, which my father the more readily complied with, as he had for many years, previous to his retiring from bufiness, been in habits of the strictest friendship and regard : After an hospitable but elegant repast, my father ventured to make Some inquiries after my uncle; he was about fifteen years younger than my
father, and was left in the possession of about forty thousand pounds, and Some of the first connexions in the commercial world, but the unhappy
rage
\
  5
rage for Speculations in the funds, which ruined So many merchants in the year 1772, and will never Sail to ruin the wealthiest, when too deeply entered into, destroyed his, still then, flattering prospeds: Unable to Support his own feelings, but most the meeting with a brother his conduct had fatally ruined and who from the time of my grandfather’s death had united the parent with the brother, induced him to quit the kingdom, after my father had taken one day’s respite from his perturbation of mind and fatigue, he advertised a meeting of my uncle’s creditors.
In order to learn the particular state of his brother’s affairs, and at the Same time to take the fense of the company reljpeding his own relponsibility, he having, to use his very emphatical ex
1
pression, unguardedly, left his name in the firm of the house. The meeting

was
6

was very Sully attended, and while they unanimoussy lamented the situation of my parent, they as unanimoussy contended his fortune must answer every deficiency; being himself but too fatally convinced that he was bound not n^ore from usage and custom, than honour and justice, he agreed to assign over to trustees all his estates and possessions, in aid and in order to distharge every fair and legal demand upon the estate of my uncle.
After taking a very affectionate leave of his city friend, he returned into the country, first to Sooth my dear mother’s mind, which you will naturally Suppose was in a state of the greatest agitation j to be stripped in a moment of every pleasurable enjoyment and comfort, of all the elegancies of life, was a trial which
to Support with fortitude, required
every

>

every exertion of mind: My father, whatever he Suffered, appeared all resignation, the more tenderly to Sooth and Soften her distress, obliged to discharge every servant but two, my mother’s own maid, and a female servant of all work, the daughter of one of his
tenants j this painful but necessary measure was immediately executed, allowing every servant six months wages in advance, as a ffnall consideration for their Sudden difinission.
To pass over this affefling Scene, which took place about four days after my return from School, would be injuring the cause of virtue : Most of the Servants had lived with my parents many years. Some had worn out their youth in the family, particularly James, my father’s own valet; he had been appointed by my grand father, on my
b4
father’s

father’s leaving Eaton, and being Sent for two years to a great commercial house at Leghorn, and who from his Saithful attachment to his then young master, was received, on his return to England, into the family of my grandfather, as my father’s own domestic:
\
There was not a dry eye in the house on the day this painful businefs was performed; the females were humbly Soliciting my dear mother for the distinction of being preferred, they were gently reminded, no distinction had been given, the Servants retained were those the most necessary for them in their present state, that more than two they could not dispenfe with, and as they had always been considered more like humble friends than domestics, their behaviour on the present occasion had impressed her mind with a rest) eest

9
Speff for them individually. Seldom merited, and as Seldom felt, upon which they modestly retired into the Servants hall to partake together for the last time the liberal provision of the family.
While this was passing in the great dining parlour, James was not giving that attention to the duties of his station he usually did; on inquiring where he was, or what had occasioned his absence, the groom Said, about two hours before he had desired him to Saddle the horse he usually rode when attending his master on his morning ride, and begged him, should he be wanted, to give his duty to his master and lady, and Say he should return in less than three hours; while they were expressing their Surprise at his absence without leave, a liberty before he never presumed to take, he was observed crossing from

the
10
the stable towards the house, with much
emotion and more alertness than at his
time of life he usually did : Upon his
entering the drawing parlour, whither
»
my parents had just retired, and put ing down a little tin box, which he carried under his arm, he dropped instantly down on his knees, then catching hold of my father by the Skirts of his coat and looking tenderly up, entreated his pardon for his absence, saying, when he went out in the morning he had not power to ask his honor’s leave, and that if he could have done So, he well knew his design being known he should have been commanded to stay at home, that what he had been doing, and was then going to Solicit, though he knew it was great presumption, he had, notwithstanding. Set his heart upon : My father had endeavoured for Some time to make him i rise.

11
rise, but in vain, he continued immoveable.
My mother was riveted to the place She stood struck with amazement at his conduct— —
— first she thought the
O
share he had been observed to take in his master’s distress ever Since it was divulged to the Samily, had affe<5ted his mind; it had indeed affected him, but
in a manner widely different from what
/
my mother at first Suggested, breaking a Seal that Sastened together the two ends of a piece of red tape, he raised up the cover, and taking out the contents one by one, placed them by his fide with a grace Seldom Sound in his humble walk in life, then looking tenderly in his master’s face, for he had for Some minutes before relpedtfully withdrawn his eyes, and fixed them on the box; ‘ht is now, please your honour, ” says he, wiping from, his 'cheek.
B, 6
with
12
with the back of his hand a large bead
that had hung trembling for more than a minute, it is now Seven and thirty years Since your honoured father engaged me in your honor’s Service, to attend you on your tour to Italy; you was pleased to recommend me at your return to England in Such favourable terms that I was continued in your honor’s family; I hope I have held my station to your honor’s Satisfadlion; but, however that may be, I have been rewarded for it, far, very far beyond my merits, and have now an opportunity to evince my gratitude, these papers are India bonds of one hundred pounds each, there are just eighteen in number, and I cannot rise ’till your honour will con descend to take them, they may prov useful at this unhappy juncture, and I can never feel a want if your honour will let me attend you in your retreat.’'
The Surprise that took possession of my
parents
e

13
parents was greatly heightened by the manner, but the emotion of my father was orreat in the extreme.
And though few men in the kingdom better knew how to blend affability with that dignity his former Situation and fortune required, he lost all attention to forms, for Seizing James in his arms he raised him from his humble posture, with an east to himseif the more extraordinary, as he was at that time much dejetsted and weak, and leading him by the stand, made stim let down on tste Sofa by stis fide,, and after a deep figli, ste said“ “unparalleled attacstment to tste fortunes of an unhappy master require that I make a suitable return; I have always looked upon distinflions, the const quence of fortune merely, as below the attention of a cultivated feeling mind,
for many possess riches without one
amiable
i
14
amiable quality, while on the other hand, great goodness of heart, and urbanity of manners, grace the humble walks of lise; you have demonstrated this position, in a manner So rhuch to your honour, that I beg from this time you will view me in no other light than that of a friend, for I assure you, J ames, taking him affectionately by the hand,. I know no man who lustains that cha rafler better than yourself) there is, but one condition which I must insist upon, before you retire with me to my retreat, ’till the father of Ipirits like tiiine shall please to part us, and that is, you will return the bonds back into the box, and re deliver them to the Safe custody of your agent.”
This had like to have occasioned a Severe struggle on the part of James, but my father declaring he did not at
present want any assistance, and assuring
T H E E M G LIS H ME R C H ANT. 15
ring him, whenever he should, he would inform him, he reluftandy replaced them.
And nov, for the first time, my mo there broke Silence: You must permit
me, Mr. James, to congratulate your master upon the acquisition he has this day made; the loss of Sortune Sits lighter on my heart, for in my estimation of mankind, I know no fortune, no wealth, above the purchase of shch a friend, in that view we are gainers, we have added one to our family that would do honour to die proudest or the most elevated, one who I blush to think has. sh long stood where he So eminently deserved to be Seated.” My mother then gave him her hand, which he respeflfully raised to his lips, and receiving from my father an affectionate embrace, retired to recover
from his emotion.
And
l6 '
And now I think I bear you Say you are glad the curtain Sails, and allows you s('me re Spite, in my next I will give you further particulars, as they occurred, of what passed from time to time, as my leisure and engagements will permit me, time only will deve lope to my amiable Emily why my parents assumed the name that concludes me, with every wish for her happiness.
Your affedlionate friend.
A.
CAROLINE HARTLEY
LETTER

17
LETTER II
MISS EMILY JOHNSON
TO
MISS HARTLEY.
Gower street y Bedford squart,.
DEAR CAROLINE,
HAD the pleasure to receive Safe the packet you did me the favour to Send me, reciting the first effects occasioned by your uncle’s Sudden disappearance, and the conduds pursued by your excellent and very worthy pa rents, a conduct highly worthy imitation : Oh! did the gay, did the dissipated know, the pleasure that Springs upon the mind in having the Spirit to
retrench
l8
retrench their expenses, when it would be madness in the extreme to indulge them longer; it is not the
greatest
possessions, my dear Caroline, that produces the greatest degree of happi ness; one thousand per annum with economy, bids fairer to insure true pleashre and comfort, than twenty thousand without it.
Pardon me this digression,, the shb jed gave rise to it; but to return, the Scene of parting with the Servants must have been very painful to your parents, and affecting even to the domestics themselves; but above all, the noble character of James affected me much, I really long to See the honest fellow, I think he merited the distinction shown to him, nor do I blush to acknowledge I paid the tribute of a tear to his worth, I have takeii the liberty, from a persuasion I should have
your
TH   i9
your permission to do So, to read your letter to my mamma, who felt a very sensible concern at the family distress, and joined me in doing justice to the character of honest James.
I remain all expedlation still you reshme your pen, on which account
to write again
let me entreat you shortly, for I alture you I am greatly interested in whatever relates to my Caroline, or her ^mily: My mamma intreats me to join her relpeds with thole of your affectionate friend.
EMILY JOHNSON
LETTER
20
.i
LETTER III
MISS CAROLINE HARTLEY,
TO
MISS JOHNSON
DEAR EMILY,
HAD the pleasure to receive your obliging letter, and have now, in compliance with your desire, resumed the Subject: you So kindly interest your seif in.
My Sather having now no loj desire to remain at the Samily Seat, Sent his saithsul James with a letter to an old School Sellow, a very worthy divine, who reiided in the neighbourhood of Scarborough, upon a living of
about
THE ENGLISH*M£RCHANT. 21
about two hundred and Sorty pounds a year, which my Sather had presented him with about twenty years besore, acquainting his reverend friend with his distress, and the occasion of it, and requesting him to trouble himsels to engage a Small neat house in his own parish, is Such could be obtained, if not as near as possible; with respeft to conveniences, stabling for two horses and a Ipare stall for a cow, six chambers at least, for though his present family would occupy four only, a Ipare room or two is always desirable, in
order Sometimes to accommodate a friend, and absolutely necessary in case of illnels, two Small parlours, a dress ing room for the ladies, and a study, as he should on no account part with his library, ‘‘ from yourself, ” Said he “and those contents, I expect to draw my chiefest Support, under the present or any future affliction: I have 'Sent this
letter
£2
letter by my old Servant, James, you always had a great opinion osthis honest Sellow, but I affiire you you have known him but in part, for I have that to acquaint you with relpe(5l: ing his conduct, at this particular time, as cannot fail to raise him highly in your esteem: In one word, I have every reason to think him the most faithful and grateful of men that lives, and now do, and in shture shall confider him in no other light than an humble friend.’*
I have desired him, if you thought there was any immediate prolpeft of meeting with a situation, that in your opinion would fuit me, to wait a few days ’till you had made the necessary

inquiries
>»
On the arrival of this faithful domes tic, if I may, without injury to sentiment,
6 still
  CLJ
still continue to style him So, at the house of my father’s reverend friend, he delivered the letter which had been entrusted to his care, into his own hand, having been introduced by the doctor’s Servant into his master’s study; after Some general and unusual inquiries relpedling the health of his patron and family, and having desired Mr. James, for folie always addressed him, to retire and refresh himself he broke the Seal, but before I introduce you to a closer intimacy with this worthy divine, give me leave to make you acquainted with his amiable lady, and daughters.
Faffing entirely over the state of childhood, I shall represent them with all the advantages their more matured age hath bestowed upon them: Mrs. Smith I believe to be Some five or six
and forty, in stature rather above the
middle
24
middle fixe, of most amiable manners; good sense and affability are evidently and strongly marked in every Seaturc of her countenance, with Such a wining softness and carriage, that insures at first sight your confidence and esteem; Such was the exterior of this amiable woman, the mother of two of the ✓*
most lovely girls, Lucy and Polly, the eldest turned of twenty-one, the youngest in her nineteenth year, no pains had been Ipared by their further to render them accomplished in every branch of knowledge that could ornament a female mind, and their mother had with equal care, instructed them in everything that could render them eminently amiable and useful in the domestic character, by which her tenderness induced her to hope they would at Some future day be distinguished.
Lucy
THE ENGLISH |^ERCHANT. 2$
Lucy was nearly the height of her
mother, rather inclined to an agreeable
sulness in her person, her Sace was the
Sairest imaginable, her eyes large, of
the Sweetest black, shaded with long
«
and lovely arches osthe finest hair, a beautisul quantity of which hung gracefully over her shoulders, her nose inclined to the Roman, and between two of the loveliest lips thal nature ever formed, were teeth so beautifully white and even, that nothing possibly could be more admirable; Such the person of my lovely friend, her mind all virtue, modesty, and gracefulness.
Her lister was some two inches shorter, less inclined to that fulness of person So lovely in Lucy, her nose rather aqueline, her eyes not large but beautifully Sparkling, and of the deepest blue. Sweetly over arched with light brown hair, which of the same colour
VOL. I,
C
hung

hung in lovely ringlets carelessly over her neck and bosom; nor was her mind unworthy Such a Sorm; to an uncommon degree of sprightliness nature had joined much sensibility of heart, which rendered her manner ex
I
— Such the lovely Lucy and Polly, not more united in blood than in amiableness of dilposi
ceedingly engaging:
tion.
While honest James was refreshing
himself in the fervants’ hall, the worthy Doctor was engaged in reading over the letter he had just received; when the first emotions it had occasioned were a little meliorated, he stepped from his study to his lady’s dressing-room, and acquainted her, and his daughters, who both happened to be at that time employed in Some domestic concern with their mother, with the
receipt
tae
27
receipt and the contents of the: letter from my Sather: It is Scarcely possible to give you an adequate idea of what this amiable mother and daughters felt — their Surprile could only be equalled by their concern; a stood of
tears was Some alleviation to their dis tress, which the worthy Doctor did not by any means imrhediately endeavour to remove, indeed he had paid a like tribute of.sympathy to his patron’s af fiidtion: these first emotions past, putting into his lady’s hand the letter he had just peruled, he retired again to his study, there to contemplate on the many and great changes that arc incident to mankind, while on this Sublunary Spot, and to humble himself be sore that great Being who is equally to be adored when he taketh away as when he giveth.
2
By
r.
28
By this time he had regained, in a •eat degree, his usually Serenity of mind, when, ringing his bell, he ordered the Servant to desire Mr. James to step into his study, which the latter, having finished Some time his little meal, immediately did; from him he learned
I
not only a fuller state oshis patron’s health, and that of the family, but alio a fuller account of the dreadful catastrophe that had brought on their distress.

After requesting Mr. James to stay where he was still the following day, and desiring him not to want any refreshment the parsonage afforded, he
told him he might retire and join the family below, and that in the morning he would trouble him with a letter for his master, which shall be the subject of my next.
And
THE.   29
And now, that I may not trespass too much on the time and good nature of my amiable friend, I conclude, and remain.
Your affectionate,
CAROLIE HARTLEY.
I
c3
LETTER
.*»» -
30
LETTER IV
REV. MR. SMITH,
TO
CHARLES WILSON, ESQ.
Parjonage Houje

DEAR SIR,
T
HE letter you did me the honour to Send, by your old and Saith sul servant, Mr. J ames, was delivered into my hands yesterday morning; I have not language to express the Surprise it occasioned, nor the deep and tender concern of Mrs. Smith and her daughters; it has been our constant conversation ever since. My poor dear girls have Scarce ever a dry eye, and
So
  3i
So sensibly is their mother and myself wounded upon this occasion, that we are at times utterly unable to Speak peace to their minds: Your lady too, what must be her Seelings, born as she was to the possession of a Iplendid for tune, how terrible the change.
I have learned from Mr. James the noble greatness of his master’s mind, who, though tenderly alive and feeling in every nerve the dreadsul stroke, endeavours to Sooth the mind of his amiable lady
oor Harry! — Gone from his native country, his family, his friends, and no clue left to pursue the wanderer: Fled from the scene his folly had produced; unable tj meet a brother his condu(st had betrayed to inevitable ruin: He had a Son, an only child, by his lady, whom he lost slime two years
c4
Since
2
32 THE ENGLISH mepvchant.
*
Since, has he taken him with him? doubtless he has. Unhappy child! but more unhappy parent! what must your Sufferings be when you sty the arms of the tenderest osbrothers, who.
£
while alive to all the misery you hav inconsiderately heaped upon him, pities and forgives you? Such I know to be the state of my worthy patron's mind; and here I cannot Sufficiently reference and adore the inscrutable ways of Providence, that Suits the burden to the bearer’s strensrth: How
W
few could Support, with becoming dignity and resignation, the trial you have Sustained? The virtuous and good are frequently seleded by Providence, to bear the adverse shafts of fortune, that while they show the instability of all human enjoyments and possessions, leave an example highly worthy imitation.

About
  33
About one mile from the parsonage house, and in the Parish, Situate at the extremity of a long row of stately elms, and upon a gentle rise, with a Southwest and Northeast alpedt, there stands a house, with Suitable offices and outbuildings, with three Small closes,
containing about twelve acres, which I think may answer every purpose you have in view; from a death in the family, it has been Some time untenanted, and from what I can learn, the proprietor is desirous of parting with it on terms uncommonly reasonable; there are two more chambers than you appear to wish, but not more than may be occasionally usesul; the room on the first story, which, in my mind, I have taken the liberty to appropriate for your study, commands a pleasing view not only of this old lea girt town, but
an extensive one also osthe offing; here the mind, wearied with philosophical
cs
disqmfitions,
34
disquisitions, may unbend itsels, and look through nature up to nature’s God i the ocean, no weak emblem of the human mind, now glassy. Smooth and tranquil, as is, to use our inimitable shakelpear’s words on another occasion, ^ahe winds of heaven were not permitted to viftt its face too roughly The moon’s pale beams, (for it was by her light I Saw it) gave a Solemn Iplendor to the Scene, charmed every lense, and filled my mind with wonder and gratitude; here let me pause a moment, for now behold the change; that bright orb that late So beauti
kd
Sully attracted every lense, and filled the mind with placid reverence and awe, is quite obscured and hid from our weak eyes, by the deep gloom of yon impervious cloud: — Just So, (for purposes far above our comprehensions) the great author of nature shades for a while the fairest views, the hap
3 P'sft


9 r
piest prospects, ’dll, in his own appointed time, he clears the gloom and dispels the storm: that he may, in his mercy and wisdom, operate in Some Such manner by my friend, will be the constant prayer of the man his bounty blessed.
My wise and daughters entreat to join their wishes to mine for the health and happiness osyour amiable lady, the lovely Caroline and seis — that I may lose no time in preparing for the reception of your family the Situation I have described, I entreat to be honoured
as early as convenient, with your wishes on that Subject:
I am, my dear Sir,
your asslidted, but ever faithful friend.
BOYLE SMITH.
C 6
LET
36
LETTER V
MISS HARTLEY,
TO
MISS JOHNSON
Elni Hctife.
SEAR EMILY,
OU are now, my amiable friend, in possession of the dodlor’s letter to my Sather, and in Some measure
acquainted with his lady and daughters.
My Sather, after consulting with my mother upon the Subject: of Mr. Smith's letter, determined upon taking up his residence at the retreat which had been
  37
described to him; and in order to do So, as early as he conveniently could, addressed a line to the Doctor, by the return of the post; declaring his intention, and requesting the Savour of him to employ Such persons as might be necessary to render it immediately sit for occupation; observing, that what Surther repair or additions might be proper, should be done under his own inspedtion the Soilowing Ipring; vrhile these matters were preparing at elm house, for So I shall in Suture call it, my father was employed in arranging his different estates for the inlpedlion of the solicitor, appointed by the gentlemen in trusts for the discharge of every deficiency in his brother’s aff^rs; having done this, he gave Mr. Vellum, a very worthy pradtitioner, who had transadled his bufiness many years, proper duplicates; and at the Same tim
A
5
em

38
empowered him to Settle, adjust, and receive, in his name, and for his use, Such balance or balances as might remain, after discharging all legal dues and demands whatsoever upon the estate of his brother.
And now the Servants were all employed in preparing and packing shch part of the Surniture, paintings, and prints, as my parents had determined to remove, and proper carriages were held in readiness by Several of the tenants, who warmly contested for the preferenee, anxious to show every posr Sible regard to their very relpedtable landlord and family j to James was left the execution of this painful yet necessary work, which was performed with his usual care and address; but as travelling, my dear Emily, is attended with fatigue, the very recital may she
fupposed
  39
shpposed to induce Some degree of lan gour in your friend, I shall therefore avail myself accordingly, and fubscribe myself.
Y our affcdlionate.
CAROLINE HARTLEY
/
LETTER
40
ft
LETTER VI
MISS HARTLEY
TO
MISS JOHNSON
Elm House.
DEAR EMILY,
HAVE had the pleasure to receive my very amiable friend’s letter, acknowledging those I have had the pleasure to transmit to her, and Soliciting me to write more Srequently, that she may be mistress of the Sequel of what befell my family; I am always extremely happy when I can gratify every
V
wish of my emily’s, but my dear friend must recoiled, that as I was very young
when
.   4i
T
when these incidents occurred, I can only write upon the Subject when my mamma’s leisure prompts my pen, till the time arrives where I was Sufficiently old to retain the circumstances as they occurred] this will Serve to acquaint you that we were Soon Settled in the retreat my pappa and mamma had fixed upon, and could any prove agree able aster the elegant Seat we had just lest, this could not fail of pleasing; I was too young to Suffer much upon the occasion, but there cannot be a doubt that my parents deplored the change in a very sensible degree.
For Some years my mother’s principal delight was the improving and in strudling the young mind of your Caroline ] when not otherwise engaged.
music, drawing, and reading, engaged the greatest part of my time, and my dear father passed the much greater
part
42
part of his leisure hours in his study, and with his old and very relpedtable friend, the Doctor; indeed, many years clapsed before my parents either received or paid visits to any of the neighbouring families: My father was So fully determined to Sequester him seif from the ‘‘bufy haunts of men, ’^ that previous to the entering upon his present habitation, he had Settled with my mother and Mrs. Smith to assume and bear the name of Hartley only; He knew mankind and the principles that govern them too well, not to know that the best of men have enemies, and that when once you cease to appear in the fashionable circles, in the same gay Splendid manner you before did, that the unfeigned sympathy of the few that feel can never be put in competition to the hauteur of the million. Such resseflions as these induced him to a Jume the name he did; and
indeed
  43
indeed my mamma often Says, it. was by his family and Snends very generally believed, he had procured from Government, a Situation abroad, and had in consequence proceeded there.
When we paid our respefts at the parsonage, it is Scarcely necessary to remark, there were no other visitors: We young people amused ourselves by strolling about the garden, which was large, or the home meadows still dusk; our parents entered into conversation, and Sometimes, though Seldom, indulged in a pool at quadrille, or my pappa and the Doctor played a rubber at back gammon.
In this manner rolled away my juvenile years; about the age of sixteen my parents occasionally permitted me to attend Mrs. Smith and her lovely daughters on a party to tea, to their
most
44
most intimate friends; in general wc used to return by Sun Setting, unless the distance was short, and Mrs. Smith had previously prevailed upon my
Mamma, to permit my steeping at her
house; this my Mamma was rather
averse to, though she Sometimes con
»
to grant it; these occasional visits, I will freely confess, gave me rather a taste and desire for company,
Till then unselt; indeed, I am half inclined to think that women as well as men were formed for Society, and that when that Society is chosen and selected by the good lense and experience of an amiable mother, we may join the young circle with perfect safety and innocence : It was Some such idea that induced my parents to permit my accompanying my young friends, Lucy and Polly, in their little excursions.
Mrs
probation.

\
  45
probation, or honoured with her company.
But lest I shall trespass too much upon your leisure, or detain you from more agreeable amusements, I beg leave to subscribe myself
My dear Emily,
Your affectionate.
CAROLINE HARTLEY.

LETTER
46 the
LETTER VII
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESCU
TO
CHARLES MANLEY, esqi
Scarborough.
DEAR SIR
A
GREEABLE to the promise I
made you when I lest town, I embrace the first leisure minute I have to acquaint you of my Safe arrival.
I have taken apartments Sora month certain in the house of a very respeft able tradesman, at the rate of four guineas, for the use of the first floor, containing a very neat convenient dining parlour, and chamber, with a room on
the
  47
the attic story for my man j my dinners and Suppers, in case I chuse to be Secluded from the public view, I have Sent from a neighbouring coffeehouse, together with what wines I may prefer: My Servant of course provides and looks to my breakfast; at present my time here has been So short that I have Scarcely had leisure to look about me; there is in the season (and this is the height of it) much company frequenting the rooms, So that there is no occasion for a gay young fellow, whose pockets are well lined, to die of the Spleen.
You my dear Sir, know, I have long since determined to marry whenever I can meet the charmer to my
must

in the extreme, and whose manners and disposition may be equalled but shall not be excelled: Whether I shall meet
m
4?
in this mart for beauty Such an angelic creature, time must determine; family, not fortune, is my motto: Provided her descent is respectable, I care not a feather whether she has one guinea or one hundred thousand; therefore da me but common justice, and own, though I have faults above measure, that this at least is an honest trait in your friend’s character.
VI
promise you (for 1 do not despair of finding at last a woman to my mind) you shall stand Iponfor to my first fon, and may I perish, if you can prevail with my angel, for she can be no less, you shall even call him Charles: And yet I cannot but think that Henry Sounds full as well, and even looks better in history; at least I am sure it does in that of our own country.
Pray
  45
Pray do me the honour to remember me rcspeftsully to Mr. Van Holment, I am interested much in his recovery; there is Something about his persort that takes with me greatly, but his manners are engaging in the extreme:

Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever most affectionately and Sincerely your faithful and obedient humble Servant,
HENRY sommzrvilll,
VOL, I

T)
LET
So
LETTER VIII
CHARLES MANLEY, est
TO
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ
Brook street3 Grojvenor square
DEAR SOMMERVILLE
HAVE to acknowledge the receipt of your letter from Scarborough;
I am happy to learn you had a Safe and agreeable journey down to that old venerable town, and that you are likely to pafs your time agreeably : Indeed, a young man of your fortune, address, and gay turn of mind, cannot fail of doing So; what with bathing in the morning, reading a favourite author
while
>
  5 I
while at breaksast, and a ride upon die Sands still dinner, you may contrive to kill the teedium vitrsy So de strufuve to the peace of the bulk of mankind. — And So, Harry, I find your principal business is a wife, — a very laudable purfuii truly, and Such as I from my vvtii known partiality to the Sex, cannot fail to approve : — I, who was once So completely happy, — but I must not touch that tender theme too much — you was too young to remember my lovely and ever amiable Charlotte : Oh! Harry, may you meet her lister in excellence, and then J shall indeed congratulate my friend upon
A
poffeffmg the very Summit of human happiness: I commend your independent Spirit, a woman of the person and endowments. Such as my friend’s warm fancy hath described, is a fortune in
herself
she brings with her more than
the Indies are equivalent to, a graceful
D 2
exterior
52
Sul exterior, excelled only by the sweet ness osher deportment, and the enchanting graces osher mind; I am
I shall be honoured in taking
not very Srequently diiposed to mirth, but you have really forced a Smile from me; I assure you, my dear Harry, I do So Sincerely participate in whatever constitutes your happiness, that, joking apart,
upon me the charge you are pleased to appoint me to the name. I shall insist upon Submitting to the feeling and good Sense of the lady, it will be a pleasure to me to second her wishes, independent of any predeli(5l: ion of my own: You oblige me much in the interest you take in the health of my young friend, I entertain great hopes that the Salubrity of our air will shortly restore him perfectly to health, that it may is sincerely my wish, as I believe him not only possessed of Superior talents,
but know him to be master of one of
the
  53
the best hearts that ever Selt another’s woe: Write to me as osten as you can find time So to do; for I affure you, independent of the great esteem and regard which for So many years have Subsisted between our families, that (and you know I do not even flatter the ladies.)
I have always entertained not only a Sincere personal regard, but a high opinion of your cha'raster and honour: with these Sentiments of you, my dear Harry, I cannot fail to have an interest in whatever affecsts my friend; on that account, to hear of your health must at all times afford me very great pleasure, but to believe you in the probable road to happiness for life, must be ever a great increase of fatisfa<fi; ion to my mind — on a proper choice of a wife Our happiness or misery in a great meafuie depends; every caution and

circum
54
circumipediion should be employed in felt6ling our partner for life; and when
once the indissoluble knot is tied, every
%
confidence should be placed in the ob jecc of our choice; the want of which has, in my opinion, destroyed more conjugal peace and happiness than mankind are well aware of: That your good sense will steer you clear of those shoals, on which the barks of So many married persons are shipwrecked, I have the fullest hope and belief; for, though 1 am unalterably the friend of the ladies, should you be less than happy I shall be half dispofed to think the fault not entirely yours; indeed I believe, when connubial peace is broke in upon, the occasion may be pretty equally shared between the parties, without any particular injury to the conduct; of either. Adieu, and believe me, dear Harry, your faithful friend, and obedient humble Servant,
CHARLES MANLEY.
TH  , 55
LETTER. IX
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
TO
PETER VAN HELMENT, ESQ
Brook streeti Grojvenor square
MY DEAR AND RESPECTABLE FRIEND,
T is with the greatest pleasure that I acquaint you with the Safe arrival of your Son, who, (the long and tedious passage considered) is as well, as from your account of the state of his health could reasonably be expected; I flatter myself that this climate will in a short time restore him perfectly; the amusements of this gay city will divert his mind, which in a little time will,
d4 I
|6
I trust, restime its usual Serenity and ease; he appears rather languid than naturally weak, possessed of an uncommon understanding, and more Seeling and Sentiment than is usually met with in this age of frivolity and dissipation, which must naturally interest your affection the more in his health and well
V
doing and happiness; the remittances you have entrusted to my care by the last packet, are funded in the four percents, and I shall, by virtue of the power of Attorney transmitted to me,
receive the dividends as they become due, and stock them; for you must per mit me to be banker to my young friend ’till I have the pleasure of Seeing you once more in this land of liberty and Security.
Weaithy as you most assuredly arc, and one child only, what can induce
your longer stay in a climate, at the
best
  57
best not the most friendly to European constitutions? But, 1 presume, that time in Some degree changes our very nature, and what was at first Scarcely to be endured, in the course of years, grow up and become a part of our habits; else it were difficult to account for the Sacrifice that many sensible and relpedsable characters make to their interests, if I may be allowed the expression, to the injury of their health, which, in my opinion, is the first chief interest of mankind. Harry is now in his own room preparing a letter to accompany this to you, that bussnels completed, I intend leaving town immediately, in company with my young friend, in order to Spend the remainder of the Summer at my seat in Norfolk; the park is Ipacious and elegantly dis posed, with wood, lawn, and sheets of water, and on the whole it is pidtu
DS
refquely
58
refquely beautisul; it is exceedingly
well stocked with hares, pheasants, and all kinds of game. So that one way or
other, to Say nothing osa choice library of books, I hope my young friend will find ample amusement and employment for his time; the good disposition of which I have always considered as the first grand point to be fettled j indeed on that in a great measure depends our Suture as well as present happiness:
It is to the man, what the dye is to the metal, it stamps the intrinsic value, and
T his one
grand principle properly adjusted, and in all points Settled, bids Sair to steer the little bark on life’s tempestuous Seas, sase through the storms and shoals
♦r
gives the character worth
that shipv/reck millions: For Henry I have no apprehensions; that you may enjoy health and happiness for many
years, is most sincerely my wish, and I
hope

  59
hope I have now no fiender security, for your Soon re visiting this first of Isses, in the confidence of which I shb scribe myself, your affedlionate and obliged humble Servant,
CHARLES MANLEY
d6
LETTER
60
/
LETTER X
HENRY VAN HELMONT, 1s(1.
TO
PETER VAN HELMONT, ESQ

Brook streeti groj^enor square,
HONOURED SIR,
After a passage no ways tedious
or unpleasant, Save in the idea of parting from, and leaving for a time an affedionate and much honoured parent, I arrived Safe in the Downs, and by the first boat that left the ship I dis patched the letter you honoured me with, to your old and intimate friend, Mr. Manley; on the third day I was fevored with a line from that gentle
m a n
  6l
man, intimating his intention of being at the king’s arms the Sollowing day in the evening, to which place he entreated I would forward Such things from the ship, as I should have occasion for, before the remainder could be prepared to be sent to town: His obliging instrikstions I immediately requested might be performed, and leaving proper orders for the conveying what yet remained on board, proceeded in the ship’s boat to the shore, that I might on no account Suffer that gentleman’s politeness to outstep the re ipedt due to the attention paid to me; nor lest due to the fhend So much re ipedted and valued by my father.
I had just ordered the waite r to bring a bottle of Madeira wine, with a decanter of water, and a large tumbler, when I observed a carriage with four
horses
6l  "
horses drive Sniartly up to the front door of the Hotel, attended by two Servants well mounted, immediately the master of the Inn and his Servants were ready to open the carriage door, when there alio; hted a gentleman about
C o
forty-two or three: Aster some little time Spent in learning from my host whether a gentleman of my name and description had arrived there, which being answered in the affirmative, (for 1 had previoufiy given the landlord my address) they were shown upstairs i there was no need for me to put to Mr. Manley the necessary questions; you had, my dear Sir, So often related to me, from my early youth. So many
traits of his charader, and the impref sion of your narration had So forcibly depi(5ted that gentleman upon my mind,
that I dropped instantly upon one knee,
#
and Seizing his haiid between mine,
pressed it instantaneoussy to my lips:
He
9
  6j
He immediately raised me from this posture, and calling me his beloved ward, his dear Van Heimont, pressed me to his bosom: vv^hile this was passing, the young gentleman who accompanied him made an effort to dis perse a rear that hung quivering at the corner of his lest eye, but observing I had noticed his emotion, he raised the back of his hand up to his cheek, walked ssowly to the window, and immediately opened it: Mr. Manley gained the Soonest the command of his feelings; after pressing me a Second time to his bosonn he addressed himself to his friend, who was immoveably fixed at the window.
My dear Harry, you must pardon my Seeming inattention to the established rules of policeness, there is Something in the vrorkings of nature Superior to all rules; but Such as rise
5
out
64
out of the Subject, they must plead my excuse; and now. Sir, give me leave te introduce to you Mr. Henry Van Helmont, the Son of my old and much relpe(5led friend, Peter Van Helmont.,
Then turning to me, he Said, Mr. Van Helmont knew my very amiable friend, Mr. Sommerville; you will, I am persuaded, in time improve the re fpeest you may at this moment entertain each for the other, into a warm and lasting friendship : That you may, will afford me great pleasure. I know Mr. Sommerville to poffels an excellent head, with a better heart; better, for however excellent the former may devise, stis the latter that stamps the impreshve value on the action; nor lest am I persuaded that my young friends amply correipond with every good and amiable quality. We rose
together
  65
together and embraced each other, and
CD
bowed to Ms. Manley.
V
That gentleman now rang the bell, ordered the waiter to place the wine, water, and tumblers, he had before put on the Sideboard, upon the table, and to prepare Supper ready by nine o’clock, poured out a glass of Madeira, and taking me affe(5lionately by the hand, welcomed me to England.
Mr. Sommerville followed immediately the example Mr. Manley had Set him, and Spoke now for the first
time, “The many favours Mr. Manley is constantly in the habit of confering on those he honours with his acquaintance, are the general topics of his nu merous friends; but the distinguished honour he has this day conferred upon me, will leave a lasting impression upon my mind, that time and distance never
can
66
can efface: To be esteemed, by him is a Sufficient pledge of innate worth, but to be placed, to be distinguished in the manner Mr. Van Helmont is, by a gen tleman of his general knowledge of mankind, implies an excellence of character, that I shall be ambitious to emu
t
late.
y
We again exchanged mutual promises of regard and attachment, when, in order to relieve the mind, Mr. man lay proposed a walk still Supper, which vas immediately assented to; having little more than an hour on our hands, we had only time to take a transient view of the town and offing, indeed we had little to regret on that Score, as
O
there are not many things deserving the attention of the traveller; The castle, though it commands a very ipa cious view in fine weather, is now in a manner gone to decay.
At
  67
At the time appointed we returned to our Hotel, Supped, Ipent an hour in cheerful conversation, took an affectionate leave of each other for the night, and retired to rest; Mr. Manley
declarino; his intention to leave this
^ %
place Sufficiently early the follovfmg day to reach London the next evening by four o’clock 3 and in order that everything might be prepared for our reception, that gentleman wrote to his stev/ard, ordering dinner to be ready by five o’clock at the latest.
We arrived without any material occurrence, at his house, in Brook street, Cavendish square, nearly at the time proposed 3 we now Sat down to an elegant more than Sumptuous repast, indeed everything in this gentleman’s family Seem to correspond with the ov/ner’s mind, where all that is truly ornamental is found 3 the wild redundancy
68
dancy that fashion puts her feeble stamp upon is not known here.
It is now more than a fortnight Since my arrival, and this the first opportunity I have had to pay my duty and respedt to my dear father; the Servants are, agreeable to their master’s orders.
preparing every tning preparatory to their leaving town, for Mr. manley’s Seat in norsolk, whither, of course, I am to accompany that gentleman; nor
have I the least doubt but that I shall pass my time, while there, in the most
agreeable manner : I hope the time is not very distant, when you, my dear Sir, will rc visit this happy where liberty and protection unite and constitute the happiness of a large nation: It is quite unnecessary for me to add, I shall be all anxiety and expectation ’dll I am honoured with a line
your hand; it is the only thing
wanting
region
  69
wanting to make me perfectly contented — The Small packet you gave to my charge the morning I quitted your proteftlng arms, I shall take elpecial care to preserve, and stri6uy obey your injundlions, though I hope from my Soul your sase arrival will relieve me from the apprehensions I shall have, was dire necessity to compel my obedience.
In all duty and gratitude I subscribc
myself,
Honoured Sir
Your very affectionate Son,
HENRY VAN HELMONT.
/*


LETTER
70
LETTER XI
MISS HARTLEY,
TO
MISS JOHNSON.
Elm House.
DEAR EMILY,
HOUGH I have not been severed with an answev to my former, I am, notwithstanding. Solicitous to oblige my amiable frierid. Mils johnson, that I resume my pen in continuation of what passed at Elm Houle, and in the Small circle of our intimates.
Every fine afternoon I was either favoured with the company of my agreeable
THE ENGLISH xmerchant. "J 1
able friends, or permitted to walk over to the parsonage, to pay my respedts to Mrs. Smith and the young ladies;
and though I believe that Lucy and
$ ^
Polly as well as myself had equally a desire (at least for once) to visit the rooms, .we were So well convinced,
from the Silence of our parents upon that Subject, of the impropriety of the wish we had entertained, that we carefully concealed the idea even from each other; not that there was, between those ladies and myself, any particular reserve; but that we had equally imbibed Such respeds and reverence for their decision, that we were happy to make their pleasure the only rule of our conduct; well convinced, if Such amusements were proper for us to take, and shitable to our future views in life, their discretion and affection would point out the proper season to enjoy them; in order to render our time as
'little

72
little irksome as possible, we varied our
amusements in the manner the most
agreeable to our little party: By Some
one’s reading aloud. Some Savorite author, while the others amused themselves
at embroidering, notting, c.
and Sometimes, when the.weather was
remarkably pleasant, and Serene, we
i
strolled down to a little brook, that murmured Sweetly along at the foot of a neighbouring hill; here we could see the trout playing among the pebbles at the bottom of the stream, it was so perfectly lucid and clear.
It was Some time about the middle of last July, that, we paid a visit to our favourite stream, where we had not been for more than six weeks, the weather had proved So intenlely warm and shl try; Lucy had that evening carried her guitar with her, and, amongst other pieces which she had played, with great
taste
  7j
taste and execution, was running over goldsmith’s Savorite air, hvhen lovely womanfioops to folly V and Polly, whole voice is beautisully Sweet and melo dioiis, did me the favour to accompany her Sister with the words; I was paying my amiable and lovely friends Some little compliment, expressive of the pleasure their harmony and taste had afforded me, when, upon a Sudden turn of my head, I beheld a very genteel young man, leaning in an attentive posture against a tree, not more than thirty yards distant from where we were Seated; my surprise was lb great, as well as So Sudden, that I could "only utter, Good heaven! what brought that jiranger herev and Sunk liselels upon the bosom of Polly, who happened to be next me : My young friends, (as they have since related to me, for I was for Some minutes insen fible to all that passed) were not lest
iiirprised
VOL. I.
E
74
Surprised than rnysels, but the situation they Saw me in conquered all their Sears and appreheiisions for thernselves; unmindsul of the stranger, who Scarce knew whether to advance or remain where he was j Lucy Iprang to the brook, in order to Sprinkle a little of the cold stream over me, and Polly had already applied her bottle of fasts to my stose, and with her other hand was chaffing my temples, when I gave signs of recovery: The stranger observing I was making an effort to stand, naturally concluded it our intention to quit the Scene he had been present at, as Ibon as we could, relpedlfully advanced, and making a very graceful bow, addressed us in the following manner.
That the pleasure I have this evening enjoyed, should have occasioned Such fears in your lovely friend, affects
me
\
tme   75
me very Senfibly; taking a longer walk than I in common do aster my tea, and pleased with the romantic beauties of the Spot, I moved insenfibly forward, Till hearing the sv/eet Sound of the guitar, I explored my way to the place
td
from whence the harmony proceeded: Charmed as I before was with the romantic beauties of the Scene, how could I retire when So much loveliness and perfedbion met my ravished sight? And yet, ladies, ’twas the very idea I was struggling with when your lively friend received the alarm; permit me. Mils, ” addressing himselfto me, “Since I have been So unhappy as to occasion your distrcfs, to Support you on your return.”
But observing I had not resolutlon to reply, immediately and rightly conceiving the compliment to be received
E 2
should
•76
should be general, he addressed hinl sels to my lovely friends.
“If it was not too great a liberty for a gentleman, So perfectly a stranger, to take, I should offer my assistance to your amiable friend, but as I dare not press that subject farther, I have only to entreat, in order to do away as much as possible the inconvenience I have occasioned, you will Suffer me to accompany you (as the evening is drawing fast in) sofar on your return as you may be pleased to permit; and, in order to atone for the inconvenience I have given rise to, I beg leave, ladies, to assure you, that though I shall Suffer more than I ever yet felt upon any former occasion, I will most relpedfully obey your commands.’"
The lovely Sisters assured him, their home was not very distant, and being perfectly Safe, they could not by any means permit his attending them, observing
  77
Serving thatas probably he was a stranger to this part of the country, they could noton any account Suffer his politeness to stretch beyond reason, for the alarm he had given their friend was too trivial to be expiated at the expense oshis health and personal sasety. — So Saying we all dropped him a relpedtsul courtley, which told him, as plain as a courtsey could do, that though we have Suffered an interruption to our amusement, and no little distress of mind, he was Sully pardoned for his intrusion: He Seemed perfectly to understand the Sull extent of the compliment, for he immediately bowed gracesully, three Several times, remaining fixed and immoveable as long as we could decently discern him.
aster Some little pause the agreeable stranger, for So without any compliment to his person he most certainly is, continued our Subject during the rest of our way home j neither of us
e3
had
ys
had any knowledge of his person, nor indeed had we ever besore met a Single Soul at that Spot, sice it was not seledt ed as the Seat of our amuiements more for its natural beauties than for its retired Situation.
At length we reached the parsonage, and, though we all were Silent on the Subject, I really believe' the Same idea possessed the three; at least I will confess the truth, and own it had of me j for I had determined that what had happened that evening should remain a, lecretj and as I never learned my lovely friends acquainted their mamma with what had passed, I have Since drawn the Same conclusion for them.
And now that I have brought the amiable Lucy and Polly Safe back, and I hope perfectly tranquil, and at ease, and having reached my parents retreat,
it
  79
it grows high time that I finish this long letter, that I may on no account break in upon your amusements, or leisure. With sincere wishes for the health and happiness of my amiable Emily, I Sub scribe mysels,
Her most affe<fi: ionate.
CAROLINE hartley.
e4
LET
So
LETTER XII
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ.
TO
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.,
Scarbrough,
DEAR SIR,
T is now little better than three weeks since I had the pleasure to address myself to you, acquainting you with my sase arrival, how I was Situated, and my intended plan of Seledling from the giddy and gay, a lovely female, who with all the vivacity naturally attendant upon youth, should yet be mistress of So much good fense, as to render it pleasing, not disgusting,
which

8 I
which is too bsten the case, with those young ladies who are deemed by the men girls of Spirit. — I have Srequented the rooms every public night, the library, the usual shops for raffling, the morning lounge, as well as all the various rides, in the neighbourhood; and while I cannot but acknowledge in jus tice to the ladies, wsho honour this place with their presence, that there are many lovely and even highly accomplished women, yet my heart has remained persedlly in the Same easy state as besore my arrival; indeed I Srequently cannot help thinking, whether justly So or not I leave to your better sense to determine) that these very public Scenes are less calculated to inspire love than my fair country women are well aware of) that passion likes retirement, and sties from the busy haunts of men.” The variety of objects that strike the mind disturb the impression, they otherwise
Ei
could

could not Sail to make, aand leave the passions unfixed, unsettled, having much to admire, but equally unable to re solve and determine.
I was in this humour of reasoning, when, having taken my tea, and putting a volume of sterne’s Shandy iff my pocket, I Sallied forth, intending to vary my usual walk; therefore leaving this old sea girt town a little on my right hand, I continued to Saunter without the least knowledge of the road or where the path led to j by this time I bad exceeded three miles when observing a beautiful clump of chesnut trees, shading the Summit of a gradual rile, no great distance from me, I determined to gain the top, not only to enjoy the air more freely, but to increase the beauties of The Scene by a view of the Sea; this was no Sooner resolved than accomplished.
While
  83
While I stood admiring sol’s bright beams, then Sast declining, playing on the glassy bosom of old Ocean, my eyes were Suddenly struck with the ravishing Sound of music; surprised to find any melody. Save what the nightingale afforded, who had just bcsore been singing his evening hymn to the ineffable Sather of nature, it engaged ail my attention to discover from whence the sound came; when bein convinced
it must come, as the wind then sat,
\
from th valley that lay on my left at the foot of the little hill I had just before ascended, I immediately determined to explore my way to the glade below j the nearer I arrived at the base of the hill, the more perfectly the Sounds met my ear.
When
parts down, judge my suprise, upon clearing the covert part that still then
e6
shaded
$4
shaded my view, I observed at the foot, and within two hundred yards of the place I then stood upon, three most lovely females, one playing with great taste on the guitar, while another accompanied with her voice, transcend ently melodious and ravishing; I could hardly believe but I trod on fairy ground; while a third beautiful female was between the Songs, for I heard more than one, complimenting, at least from at her attitude I So conceived she did her amiable friends upon their execu
r
tion and taste : I made my approach Sufficiently near to enjoy both the music and the words; having no wish on

any account to learn the least Secret of their hearts; yet I could not forego the pleasure I then enjoyed, though I should delpise myself were I capable of meanly listening to their conversation.
/
In
  8^
In this fitiiation I had for Some time remained, When, upon the finishing
poor goldsmith’s air in his Vicar of
/
Wakefield, the lady who had ’till then been passive, by a Sudden and quick turn of her head discovered me; which she no Sooner did, than Setting up a violent Scream, she fainted upon the bosom of her friend; my alarm and apprehension was little less than theirs; I felt I was observed, and Scarce knew whether I had better fly to their assistance or retreat; the latter idea was re pugnant to my feelings, though I must own I was utterly unable to advance a Single step.
I waited Some moments ’till I found the lovely girl, by the help of a Smelling bottle, and the Iprinkling of a few drops of water, which happily enough flowed murmuring by, only a few paces from where they were leated, began
to
86
to recover; observing the ladies, her
her to rise, I
assisting
Gompanions, thought I might venture to approach and apologise for the interruption’ and distress I had occasioned. This I did in the best manner I could, but awkwardly enough I dare Say; for never in the course of my lise had I less command of myself; indeed three Such lovely women I never before at any time Saw; and though I was conscious I was wounded beyond expression, they were all Such elegant and beautiful girls that I could not instantly discover which had robbed me of my heart: They received my apology with that dignity, ease, and grace, that showed they were no strangers (however affected by my intrusion) to the first and politest circles in the kingdom; indeed, my dear Sir, had Paris been once more possession of the apple, it
would have been difficult to Say to which
of
  87
of these lovely girls he should give it with justice: All my entreaties to attend them home was ineffedtual, they insisted upon my permiting them to retire by themselves; awed by the dignity of their manner, and conscious I had (though undefignedly) occasioned their distress, I acquiesced, and making each a relpedtsul bow, remained mo tionless, where I stood, still my strained eyes could perceive them no longer. I now explored’my way back in the best manner I could;
Though I did not reach the town still Some time aster dush, I was not then the least dilposed to dress for the rooms; indeed the perturbation of mind I laboured under required retirement; I would have given halsmy fortune to have known where to find these lovely incognita’s, for I am confident they do not frequent the rooms, if in deed
88
I
deed they ever enter them; still I shall learn what Seven dread to know, their name, family, and whether what affects me infinitely more, the lovely Lucy, (for by that name her young companions called my charmer) is or is not engaged, I can never be happy.
There does not appear, from the transient view I was able to make, any material difference in their ages; the angelic Lucy I take to be in her nineteenth or twentieth year; the tender and expressive concern her lovely countenance displayed when she flew to the brook, fixed an impression on my soul that no, time or distance will remove; I must exert all my address on this oc casion, for I have perfiiaded myself these ladies, however recluse they may live, are not more fiiperior in personal attraddons than in their mental acquirements.

I
  89
I had Some thoughts this morning of returning to town early in the ensu ing week, but that I feel is as utterly out of my power as it is now distant from my wish; I have ordered a boiled chicken for my Supper, but whether I shall even taste it is more than I can at this moment determine; be that as it may, I shall at least take off a bumper (no usual custom with me) to the health of my Sweet incognita, and her lovely friends: How placid and Serene was my mind at noon, but what a change has one short hour made in my peace! Should I fail to discover their retreat, and I have not the least line of direction, I shall be miserable in the extreme; but indeed I cannot bring myself to think three Such lovely women can be iequestered. So as to evade the starch of a lover impelled by that busy passion imsuccessful j every difficulty disappears, there is not anything we willingly

'•'jr
•'90
lingly encounter but maybe overcome, at least I can answer for my own feel ings: Find the lovely girl I will ifper feverance can reach her her retreat: What then? — I dread to put the question even to m
— Should this bewitching fair, the lovely Lucy, be preengaged— — must Submit' to my fatej however reluctantly, and bidding an eternal adieu to my native clime. Seek
i
that peace abroad I shall then have no hope to find in England: excuse the
length of this leter with a line, and at

and indulge me
times
me
to be, wherever face or fortune may in future place me, dear Sir
Your Sincerely obliged humble Servant
HENRY SOMMERVILLE,
  9i
LETTER XIII
MISS JOHNSON
TO
MISS HARTLEY.
gowerstreet, Bedford. square
DEAR CAROLINE,
HAVE to beg pardon of my lovely Caroline for my neglecting toanswer her obliging favour earlier, which is the less pardonable as I cannot Sufficiently express the entertainment they have given me: I positively long for an interview with the amiable Lucy, and her lovely Sister; what a happy agreeable trio they form! I do not wonder your young Swain was riveted where hg
stood:
92
stood: What a delicious treat he must have had before you discovered him! I find you did not treat him with any particular degree of Severity j now upon my honour, was I a man. So circumstanced, I should have acted much in the Same manner.
But were you not Severe to yourselves ^ you, nor either of your fair friends, never once regretted his
obeying your injundlions So implicitly? Would not his company, my amiable Caroline, have ihcreased the pleasure of your walk, and relieved you from that silence you all to Such a degree observed? While Something was pas sing over the mind of each, that neither meant to disclose. As I wish to be married, heigh ho, what the deuce have I Said? Well. Since its out let it go, I pity the poor fellow from my heart; what a struggle he must undergo
\
to

93
to find which of you had robbed him of his heart j and then could he discover, tlstnk you, the lovely thief? you must expect in Some of your walks either to find the distradled youth dangling from the branch of Some old oak, or lying
f
/
at the bottom of the lucid stream, where he" first Saw your divinities; for love, my dear Caroline, being rather a desperate disease, must have rather a violent remedy.
'Well, joking apart, I am convinced I shall shortly have an additional personage in the drama, but whether I shall have to congratulate on the occasion my amiable friend, or Lucy, or Polly, I must leave time to discover: If ever he makes his appearance again, may he be found on a nearer view and
acquaintance, not utterly unworthy the worth and beauty he may desire to attain; he must, I am convinced, be a
very
94
very accomplished youth, to have the least chance of gaining an ascendancy with my lovely Caroline, whose penon though beautiful beyond description, is, all lovely as it is, inferior to the ■charms that grace her mind; that every gentle power may prote(5t my lovely friend, is the Sincere wish of her affectionate.
EMILY JOHNSO n.

LET

95
LETTER XIV
MISS HARTLEY,
TO
MISS J O H NS ON
Kim House.
MY DEAR EMILY,
HAVE retired to my room to an swer my lively friend’s letter, and do you Sincerely think while we insisted on the agreeable stranger’s per miting us to return alone, that a dif serent Sentiment prevailed at the time in our boshms or is my Emily thrown a little from her guard, has she been describing what, to be Sure, is not of the stretch ofprobability; or is it only
a
96
a tender trait of what, on a similar occasion, has passed in her own mind?
Come, you stand arranged, confess the truth, and throw yourself on the mercy of the court; the lovely listers have read the passage, and b*lit one opinion prevailed, that while you was kindly Solicitous for the happiness and future peace of your friends, you was tacitly impeaching a certain lady of your acquaintance, for an instance of cruelty to her lover, at the expense of her own quiet; and so you are determined to dilpofe of the stranger’s heart to one of us, at least? indeed I have, (to own the truth) often heard of love at first Sight, and I must acknowledge my lovely friends appeared to every advantage that music and melody could produce; though abstradted from these elegant accomplishments, their personal charms alone were Sufficient to
6
fix
  97
fix the attachment osthe most changeable of the Sex.
We have never since that evening revisited the Ipot; once the Srequent Seat of our amusements, not that we conceive should chance or desisin throw the stranger in our way, that we have anything to apprehend on the Score of behaviour, his manners were much too
graceful
to
polite, his address too leave the least doubt that nature and education had finished the piece, and completed that first of characters— — gentleman; but that as there is very little doubt from the emotion he was apparently under, that evening, but he may occasionally shape his course nearly into the same latitude.
, Our being found there might imply what would pain us both to think of.
VOL. I.
F
and
98
and So far from rendering us more amiable in the opinion osa man of Sentiment, would probably have a quite
>
different effecst; and however indiffer ently we certainly all are, it would hurt our feelings to give even a person v/e may never a third time see, an impres sion repugnant to our Sentiments; i find that I enjoy the lame Serenity of mind that I formerly did, nor can I observe any alteration in my lovely friends. So that whether this agreeable stranger
O O

ever revmts our regions or not, it is
matter of no moment to the peace of your Caroline, or her dear associates. With the Sincerest wishes for your hap piness, I remain, dear Emily,
Your affedlionate.
CAROLINE HARTLEY.
LETTER

99
LETTER XV
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ
TO
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ES(U
Hadley Grove
DEAR SIR
EMBRACE the first opportunity I have to answer the letter you favoured me with, by which I find it is likely your stay in the neighbourhood where you now are, will probably be much longer than you at first intended; I have not the least doubt that the ladies you So unexpectedly surprised are lovely elegant women, and the circumstance of their not appearing at the
F 2
rooms
loo
rooms (for I cannot believe from their
knowledge
of the retreat, they are strangers to thole parts) dilpofes me to think they have been brought up with more than usual care and attention, for though I have not the least objection to young ladies appearing occasionly at places of public resort, yet I must declare I think that female exceedingly to be blamed, wdio constantly is met there, it makes their persons too cheap, and they acquire infensibly a boldness, or more properly speaking, a less reserve, than is consistent with the delicacy of the female character.
Sensible as I am that my dear Henry is incapable of making an imprudent choice, yet I do at all times give him my Sentiments without reserve upon the Subject, and I am convinced the motive that induces me So to do, will plead ray excuse for the liberty; to
say
  loi
say nothing of the interest I have in whatever relates to his happiness, it will afford me infinite pleasure to See my deserving friend united to the most amiable of her Sex, that many years will not pass away before that happy event shall take place is my Sincere wish, and that whenever it shall be your good fortune to be So united, I hope it will be productive for many,, many years of great felicity and comfort to yourself and your fair partner : Indeed I think it incumbent on every man turned of twenty-five, more especially all who, like yourself, have an ample and independent fortune, to turn their thoughts to matrimony; stis a debt they owe to their country, and an injunction laid upon them by the great
Author of Nature; therefore you may, Sommerviile, reasonably conclude, as you are drawing near to that age, it is but just you should endeavour to fix

your
102
your affe<5l; ions, that you may become a more respedtable member of the community: 1 hope you will shcceed in your endeavours to find your incognita, and that the lovely maid may not only be disengaged, but answer in all respedts that character I should be happy to compliment as the wife of my friend.
I shall be glad to learn your success should So much good fortune attend you or, on the contrary, to console you under any disappointment you may experience.
My young friend Van Helmont is much improved both in his health and Spirits; indeed, I believe the amiable young man has Suffered no little from leaving the fostering arms of a ten der father, it gives me great pleasure
to
  IO
to think him more reconciled than at firstj, and indeed than he appeared to be for Some time aster his arrival, I flatter mysels the air where he now is, Superadded to the exercise and amuse ments, he may partake of, will in a short time restore him to perfect health: We rise by six o’clock in the morning, mount our horses, and either ride round the park, which is Spacious, or to the hamlet in the neighbourhood, return about eight, breaksast almost immediately, after that retire to the library, or our own Setting rooms, there two or three hours pass away in a manner both entertaining and instructive; we then (Sori generally accompany him) walk ’till stis time to return home to
N,
dress for dinner; my usual hour is three unless I expect to be favoured with the company of any of the neighbouring gentry, and then I always dine at four: Conversation on general topics, and
f4
mu Sic
104
music usually fill up the Ipace still tea, after that, should the party prefer a pool of quadrille, to the more ration able amusement of a walk, I readily acquiesce, for though not partial to cards, I have not the least objection to them, when they are intended only as an amusement; in that view I confider them perfectly innocent, but when they engross, which too often and too fatally they do, that time which could be employed to better and happier purposes, I own I detest them; I cannot bear the idea, for a moment, that gentlemen, men of independent fortunes, shall lavish their time, and ruin their estates, to gratify the sordid avarice of their equal, or enrich by their folly indigent sharpers, a Set of fellows whose whole time is Spent in the practice of various arts, destrudlive to the peace and happiness of their fellow creatures.
But
  IO
But how much, how infinitely more are my Seelings wounded, when I observe woman, lovely woman, Sashioned by heaven to Sooth and Soften every care, and make the bitter cup oslife go down Smoothly, in the dear pursuit of Loo, Ombre, and (i^adrille. Sacrifice to the shrdid views of gain, every lovely, every amiable feature of their person and distort even their very minds: Oh, did my fair country women refiedt but for a moment, what trash at the best they gain, what invaluable lovelinels and charms they la crrfice, they could not fail to detest not only the haunts where they are so continually found, but those harpies, who having dishpated their youth in every fashionable folly and vice, feduloussy endeavour to bring to their own despicable level the lovely and the innocent part of their Sex: In one word.
f5
my
i06
my dear Sommerville, there is no vice So destrudlive to the happiness, peace, and honour of mankind, as gaming; vou have hitherto kept free from this pernicious practice, that you may always do So is my Sincere wish; for if
9
anything under heaven could reconcile me to forego the Society of a respected friend, this vice would; for I ovni Scarce know how to pity the man who wanting nothing, wantonly Sacrifices his peace while here, and too frequently his hopes of happiness in shture, — who ruins himself, and perhaps an amiable deserving woman and family: Could Such thoughtless beings Suffer alone, no man of Sentiment would feel a Single pang; stis the misery and distress that they entail on their families which renders this vice So horridly destrudlive: How many young men of family and fortune have I known brought to beggary, and the commis
fion
  TO
Sion (to complete the Scene) of Suicide, who, but for this single mistake, had lived an ornament to their family and friends, perhaps might have lived distinguished
country?
as the guardians of their
Excels of every kind, be it what it may, is, while it lasts, a deprivation of the intelledlual powers, and it would be a blessing to thousands yet unborn if the Legifiation could, for the time the mania reigned. Subject the parties
to Salutary rules and restridlions: Ob
\
less interesting to the happiness of Society, have been attended to with a strictness in Some instances rather bordering upon Severity, but this most diabolical and destructive Hydr^ is Suffered to roam at large.
How many villains ride in their carriages, who are known to have no
f6
other
i08

other means to Support the appearance
they make in the world, but their pernicious.
and diabolical skill in the management
of the pack? Surrounded,
as they usually are, by their confidants.
what chance has a man of honour?
He has everything to lose, and nothing
to expect in return, but the loss of time.
health, peace, and character; and yet
the too Srequent misfortunes he must
experience are insufficient to warn the
gay and thoughtless; repeated instances
of villainy in these pests of Society have
little or no effect upon Such dissipated
thoughtless beings, for while they are
in possession of a Single paternal acre.
or even a family Seat, or carriage, as
the least chance, they are staked even
on the cutting of a card.
If you fail in discovering your lovely
girl, leave that to time which you cannot
effect, quit the Scene, fortune may
restore
  IO
restore her to your sight when least expected. But a truce with the idle romantic idea of flying your country, if fate disposes of this charmer in a manner different to your wishes, pay not sh indifferent a compliment to the lovely attractions of the lex, as to imagine you may not find her equal amongst your fair country women j indeed, was you intimately acquainted with the beauties of her mind, and found it congenial with your own, I could pardon you for the violence of your attachment, and almost for the weakness of your re Solution; but where under heaven could you fly with half the prolpeft ofhappiness you have at home? Where meet villi more feminine graces than is to be found in this happy Ifle? cafionally to lament and regret the weakness and folly of an individual, the bulk of the Sex are patterns of every
engaging
For though we have oc
no
engaging virtue, and amiable quality; therefore, if you caniiot find your incognita, come over here, and join hel mont in the amusements that are to be met with at Hadley Grove; the rides in the neighbourhood are beautifully rustic, the walks perfectly romantic, and the families in the vicinity polite and Sociable.
Wishing you all imaginable happi ness, I remain, my dear Sommerville,
Your affedlionate friend.
And very humble Servant,
CHARLES MANLEY.
LETTER
  Ill
LETTER XVI
MISS JOHNSON,
TO
MISS HARTLEY.
Gower street^ bedforlsquare.
DEAR CAROLINE,
HAD the pleasure to receive my amiable friend’s very agreeable letter, and have embraced the earliest opportunity I had to acknowledge the receipt of it; I don’t know, my dear, what your lovely friends might really Seel when you insisted upon the stranger’s leaving you to return by your selves, but I really think it is even now three to one but my Suggestion may
be
112
>
be just; I wish you could See me at this moment, standing besore my glass, dropping a courtsey thrice, to thank the lovely trio for their pretty expedient, who instead of complimenting me as they ought for the discovery I had made, and paying me a proper relpedt in consequence of it, agree to evade, what perhaps they could not strictly deny, by implicating their friend, vv^hy. must poor I, because I am Some three or four years older, necessarily have experienced, in my own person, what is positively the reshlt.of a knowledge of my sex?? my dear, was it not very natural for your Emily to dispoie of the stranger to one of your ladyships; and pray what greater honour could I pay him, than to give him a chance to poffess one of three of the most lovely women in the world?
n

/
/
  I IJ
Upon my word you are no novices in the art of love, you arc perfectly right to leave your old haunts; disappointment acts as a Spur to desire, and will make him more intent on the dis covery osyour retreat, that he is everything you have been pleased to represent him I am very sincerely induced to believe, and yet I cannot resrain from Smiling to think what pains we take to Suit the character to our Seel
I
mgs i
o
And yet these three lovely girls are persectly indifferebt to the amiable
stranger!
Well, is I must make this
✓
part of my creed, why I will first shut my eyes, then gulp it down and believe it, but then I must Sacrifice all my claims to prophecying in Suture, if it terminates after this manner; indeed you Seem to think your being Seen at the place where first he met your ladyships
I 14
filips, would have a different effest than it ought, in other words than you Secretly wished it should; well may I never be married, and the deuce is in
it isyou now doubt my sincerity;; have positively laid down my pen from being unable to proceed still I have Smelled to
my Salts, you have really vapoured
%
me; and do you ail enjoy the equal Serenity of mind you did besore? Eat, drink, steep, and laugh, as much and as well? Now was I convinced no hideous male creature would ever place his eye on this part of my letter, I would prove there is more in your remark than meets the Sight, but as you may by chance iqse your pocket book, for I cannot bring myself to think that the time may ever arrive when you can be influenced to produce it, by your partiality for any of the Sex, I shall be filent upon this head, and content myself by declaring, I believe you and
your
  II
your lovely friends are in the predicament of Some persons that I have heard of, who in order to know they are even indifpoled, must first consuk their physician to be convinced of the nature of their complaint.
.Do me the favour to present my best compliments and wishes to the amiable Sisters, and believe me at all times my dear Caroline,
Your affedlionate friend,
EMILY JOHNSON
LETTER
I l6
i
LETTER XVII
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ,
TO
CHARI ES MANLEY, ESQ
Scarhorough.
DEAR SIR,
BEG you will accept for the present, my acknowledgments for the letter you did me the Savour to write me, and excuse my answering it more fully ’till I have less upon my hands.
You well recolleff the Situation I was in when I had the pleasure to write to you last j the following morning I
rose earlier than I usually do, that I
might
  I i7
misht re<?ain the retreat I had the even
o o
ing before lest, to reconnoitre the Scene,
O '
and is I could discover, aster we Separated, which way my lovely lucy and her amiable friends proceeded.
I Soon reached the Spot, and a lovely romantic place it certainly is; I might have rambled for seasons in the environs of this retreat, and but for the fortunate circumstance of ascending the
o
little hill, been to the last hour a stranger to the scene; here I Spent a con fiderable part of the morning in tracing every avenue, that was likely to lead to a discovery of their retreat, but without
any success; and though I was obliged to return, for it was near ten o’clock and I had not yet breakfasted, I promised my self the pleasure of coming at an early hour the ensuing day, and that I might not be compelled to return ’till I chose foto do, I proposed
providing
/
Il THE ENGLISH merchajft.
providing mysels with a Srench roll and cold tongue, together with my Sporting bottle and horn, and then whether I returned early or late, could make no difference, particularly as I had previoiifiy told my man to provide dinner to be ready at five o’clock, but that should I not return besore six, he was at liberty, leaving everything ready on the dumb waiter, to amuse himseif’till ten in any manner he liked.
Xhefe things premiled and Settled, I retired to my room for the evening, and rose as early as I had before intended j the morning was uncommonly fine, but rather sharp, indeed, I believe on recolledlion, the wind was northerly, be that as it may, I felt no inconvenience, but arrived after an agreeable walk, at the enchanted Ipot; here I paused, and refiedted on what
3
had
  II
9
had besel me in that place, and tried all in my power to discover a path or track that led from thence to any village, or hamlet, but without Succels.
Tired at the sruitless pursuit I had made, I left the place I stood on, which was nearly as I can guess, the very Spot where these lovely girls were Seated, and amused, when I So fortunately interrupted them sitting down by the brook in order to take my little repast, the Spring being immediately at my fide and within my reach, could I for a moment have forgot' what carried me there, I Snould have preferred it
to any public breakfast, I ever partook in my life.
Full of these thoughts, and, I presume indifferent to everything beside, I had let fall the top of my Iporting bottle, which rolling from me some'
'
yards

120
yards Sell into the middle of the stream j unwillins: to lose what had been Ib often my companion in my rural excursions, I rose from the place where I sat, in order, if poshble, to recover it, I easily perceived (Such the clearness of the stream) where it lay, but was unable to reach it with my arm, the water being nearly four feet deep, therefore making a mark in order to know the place at my return, I walked still I could cut a long twig with a hooked head to it, this I Soon did, and immediately returned to endeavour at repossessing myself with the top of my bottle; after Several efforts I drew it by degrees nearly to the top, when from an over eagerness to Seize it with my other hand, it dropped off the hooked part of my rod; when in putting the stick through the short brambles that grew under that part of the
bank
  Ill
bank where I stood, I drew to the Surface of the stream, to my great Surprise, a napkin, as I then conceived it to be, but when I had cleared it from the Small branches that had hitherto held it from Sinking, it proved to be a very fine cambrick handkerchief; holding it fast by one Corner, I immediately gave it Several dipps still I had made it quite clean, aster that I placed it on the grass to dry, determined once more to regain the top of my bottle, as it had been the occasion of my getting possession of the handkerchief, which after Some little consideration I began to think must belong to my charming Imcy, as it was just at that Ipot she stooped her lily arm into the water, when her companion stiinted; this, I had flattered myseif beyond all
doubt, to be precisely the case, for in
* ^
stretching it abroad, in order to dry it the faster, nothing could equal my fur r VOL. I. G pstise
122
prise in Seeing the initials L S. at the
✓
corner.
Trifling as this circurnstance may appear to an indifferent person, I considered it as a forerunner of my future good fortune, in discovering the owner: I pressed the letters to my lips a hundred times, in half as many seconds, and without paying any regard to the consequence, for it vas not more than half dry, I placed it in my bosom, and that instant returned to recover what I now considered as above all value, as it had proved the harbinger of all the good fortune I had hitherto met
o
with: This, aster many and repeated efforts I at length effecsted, and now first putting Some water into my horn, I poured Some wine into it, and drank it off to the health of my Lucy, and having finished my meal, prepared to
retire; upon examining my watch I
found
  I 2j
found it was near two o’clockj though I really did not think it had been twelve.
I ascended the hill that first brought toe to the view of my lovely girl and 'her friends, in order, it possible, to discover (first fixing my eye as nearly as I could to the Spot where I stood when they proceeded homeward) which way they had taken; but not a fino^le track could I observe, or the
o ^
least Sign of habitation.
Hurt at finding my expeestations sh cruelly frustrated, I almost repented the obeying their cornmands, and yet after having occasioned the distress I had, perfeffly innocent that I was of all de sign, how could I think of adding to it by intruding on their time longer than they conceived it proper to permit a stranger like myself, I might, by Such
G 2
a
124
a conduo: have created alarms in their tender bosoms, that might have been attended with Satal conscquences, and, in that case I could not hope for pardon; —
want of Spirit, than hate me for perseverance but one degree from rude ness.
better they condemn me for
At length tired out with the vari ou3 refiedtions these ideas had given
rise to, I returned cxadiy at four o’clock, dined at five, and Ipent the evening alone j after reading I retired to bed, first placing my lucy’s handkerchief, for I am determined to think it hers, on my pillow, by my fide, for there I now mean it shall in future lay as my only companion at least for the present.
But I have one little point to Settle before I betake myself to rest, and that
IS
  i25
is to conclude this long epistle, with the Sincerest wishes for the health and happiness. of my worthy friend.
I am, dear Sir,
Your ever obliged obedient Servant,
HENRY SOMME.RVILLE
\
(jv 0^
LETTER
Il THE ENGLISH mbrchant.
LETTER XVIII

MISS HARTLEY,
TO
MISS JOHNSON
Elm lioufe.
MY DEAR AND SPRIGHTLY FRIEND,
HAVE been favoured with your letter, and this is the first leisure minute I have had to reply.
And So, my dear, you continue still to think, from the calculation you have made, there is odds one of us at least had fensations we chose to conceal? It may be So, my dear friend, for according to your arithmetic ’tis two to one
V
but
  127
but I am mistaken; the only idea I have to oppose to what you have ad vanced, is, the ingenuous, undis^uised

3>
dilpofition of my Lucy and Polly which has made them the admiration of all who have the pleasure of their acquaintance, and which will always raise them infinitely Superior to women in corrfmon; and can you really think that rather than consess, what you are pleased to presume, we must at all events feel, we are desirous of shifting the Suggestion, your experience has given you over your friends, to an implication of what may have passed in your own breast? This wouldbe rather an unsair way of drawing a conclusion, considering you are only three or Sour years older, and yet that very circumstance strengthens my inference, or else, as the Jew Said to the Judge,
G 4
CC
How
12.8
*‘how much older are they than your


ars?
j y
9
But, even take the matter your own way, Blmily, it is becoming in us
I
to yield to our Superiors in age, there sore I think you loose full as much as you gain, place the observation you have made to the account of fuller experience, and we will sit down as three giddy girls who have Seen little of what passes in the world; give me leave, in
.A id ^
the name of my lovely friends, and myseif^ to thank you for restoring to our hopes and fears, the amiable stranger, and yet a stranger, my dear Emily, I really think he will remain, as it is now ten days or more and no news of the gay, the iprightly fellow; then again, my dear, I find you are dis pofed to mistake our intentions, and what was the innocent conviflion of our
minds you have strained into a Subde
piece
  129
piece ofpolicy whate V er my dear Emily is difposed to believe I shall leave to her own good lense to determine, but Serioussy, my love, in allowing the character of a gentleman to the agreeable stranger, we did him no more than justice; and while we all three wish to give to merit what is due to merit, we can yet Say we are So induced only from a regard to truth; the re Sore, my dear Emmy, without shutting your eyes, reject what you cannot reconcile, heaven only knows how this or any other matter rnay terminate, we must take the con Sequences, and shall very quietly await the eventi and possitively assert we enjoy all the comforts oslife; in the Same Sull and ample manner we were Sormerly used to do: I promise you your next letter shall at no time, without your permission, be shev/n to any man breathing, the re Sore give your opinion of us girls freely, but was you
Gi
not

\
130
not at least three or Sour years older, I should be tempted to offer my ad vice in this nice case, and warn you from drawing conclusions that might without straining, attach to the sensi bility of my emmy’s expressive feeling heart.
myself and my amiable friends often wish you would add one more to our party, it would give an additional pleasure to us, and I hope you would find in our Society an increase to your amuse ments, what Say you my dear? Come and join us, and then you may have perhaps a chance of judging for your self respedling the agreeable stranger, if again he ever re vifits these parts; if you delight in Sbiirude and retirement, you will be Suited perfectly to your wishes, for 1 really believe Some' of our retired Ipots are Scarce known to any persons but ourselves; at least

  II
we never yet met a Single stroller at the place, here we Spend many hours, and by the help of a book and conversation, pass our time very agreeably. Wishing you health and happiness, I
remain.
My dear Emily,
Your affectionate,
CAROLINE HARTLEY
6


IJ2
LETTER XIX
9
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ.
TO
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
scarhorouge..
DEAR SIR,
AM not So unreasonable to expect, you who can employ your time So., much better, should Sacrifice a large portion of it to answer the letters I trouble you with regularly, as they come to hand; therefore waving that.
plinsstilio, I shall continue to give you, from time to time, die Several occurrences in this business as they make their appearance,
I

  IJJ'
I Sreqiient the rooms much lessstham I did, convinced there is very little chance to find my lovely girl in the gay throng that Srequents them: Afit er' bathing, having first finished my hreak sast, I ssually take a' ride, and generally chusc the most retired lanes I can find; stwas in one osthese morn istg excursions, when muling upon what had happened to me at the brook, and almost despairing of Succeeding In thc' discovery of my lovely Lucy, and her charming companions, by a Sudden turn of my head, about the distance of three or four hundred yards I thought I espied a cottage>and concluding, as I conceived myself to be nearly as far beyond the little hill I formerly had ascended, as that was from the town I had left I might be able to gain Some information, I gave my horse to my Servant, ordering him to remain where he was ’till I should return, then, Springing over the hedge; L began to explore my way to the cot,
which
■ ' •)*
i34
which having at length reached, I entered without any hesitation i after apologising for the intrusion I vas guilty of, on the store of a violent pain in my fide that had suddenly seized me, to a very decent neat dressed woman, about some thirty years of age, who was employed in preparing dinner for her little family; for there were in the same Eoom with her two very fine boys and a lovely girl; the girl I took to be about eight or nine years old, the elder boy appeared to be nearly twelve, the younger six or stven; I begged she would oblige me with a glass of Ipring water, for that 1 feidom or ever drank any other liquor when, thest pains attacked me.
She very willingly complied with my request, and desired that I would not attempt to proceed ’till shch time
as I found myself perfectly recovered
obfervins:
N
  i35
observing that she was preparing dinner for her husband and little family, and that if I would be So good as to excuse her pursuing the little duties of her station, anything her humble cot afforded was at all times at the Service of any person coming that way, who might stand in need of it.
At this instant of time the husband returned, and was, as you may naturally shppose, greatly surprised to find a stranger in his houle : I acquainted him with the reashn that had induced me to take the liberty, that I found
myseif much better, and should be able
%
very shortly to proceed forward; he immediately recovered from the Surprise the finding a stranger in his house had occasioned. Saying, he was very glad his wife had affored me the ac commodati: n she had, but could not kelp declaring, he wondered how I
found
136
THE ENGLISH merchant;
found my way to his cot, as it stood iit. a manner hid from the passenger; !• agreed with him that his dwelling was
O O
certainly very retired, and that my observing it was merely accidental.
I then begged to be insormed'whe there there were any gentlemen’s Seate near his cottage, and wshether they resided on them. aster pausing as if to consider isle should resolve me or not, and looking attentively but respeclsully at me, replied, he could not but own there were Some fev/ rdpedtable sami lies in the vicinity of his cot; who re Sided there the year round, but that the principal families went usually to London in the winter; that one family in particular lived very much retired, for though they had resided in the neighbourhood Several years, he never re eoliedted to hear they ever had visited any other family than the worthy Doc --
tor’s
  i37
'tor’s, who had the living, that his cottage belonged to one Mr. Hartley, which was the gen deman’s name he had be Sore mentioned, that he had only one daughter, a most amiable young lady, who was particularly intimate at the parsonage house, adding.
that the dodor’s daughters and miss Hartley were inseparable companions, and' Srequently in their walks called at his cot, and generally brought Some little thing or other for the children.
While this discourse passed we had walked insensibly into his little orchard, at the back of the cottage, when casting my eye over the hedge I observed a lady passing along, and presently Saw two more at the short distance of a

Small field; mentioning to him what I Saw, he looked for a moment at the Ipot, and exclaimed, they are the very
ladies that I was describing to you;
they
ijs
they are the lovely miss Smiths and miss Hartley.
Before I could well recover from my wonder, the lovely girls entered the houfcj judge whafwasmyjoy when
\
they approached, .to find they were the
Same lovely girls that had given me So much pkasure, and occasioned me So much anxiety todiscovcr.
They were Scarcely Seated when my friendly host, desirous of paying his re: ^eds to them, proceeded to the
house, and turning to me Said, “I Scarce
know how to al: upon this occasion, but as you appear So much the gentleman, I will venture to take you with
me.

We entered together, Ladies, ’* Said the cottager, “pardon me for introducing this stranger, the gentleman
was
rv' -'
  i39
was taken Suddenly ill and called at my cot, just before you came.”
The astonishment they showed is better conceived than expressed; their colour came and went, they looked at each other, and then at the cottager, to discover, if possible, by what means I could possibly have found his retreat:
and

ing it incumbent on me to di every trait of suspicion that might fall on, the eh^radler of this honest man, I proceeded to state, that in my morning ride finding myself Seized with a pain in my fide, and discovering this habitation, I gave my horse to my Servant, and ventured to approach it, that what I had then done having been the means of introducing me to the most lovely of rheir Sex, I should ever confide r as the most fortunate circum stance of my life that as the intruuon
which
\
140
which had embarrassed their evening
O
amusements was accidental, this was equally So; that if the former ocean

stoned any uneasinefs, I flattered myself this would by no means increase it; to say it was what I had most ardently desired ever since that happy evening, was an expression infinitely short of
what I since had Suffered, wdiat now X felt.
The young lady I took for Miss Hartley being less embarrassed than her fair friends, taking the lead, replied, that the interruption to their
amusement that evening was no farther
o
of confeqiience than the alarm it had occasioned, which was transitory~that our unexpedfced meeting this morning
had ce#ainly been matter of great Surprise,
fas they had before never Seen any derson but the family, which they
Sometimes occasionally called upon in
theiti
  II
their walks — that as they had not the honour of being known to me, and should be expected home, they must retire.
They all immediately rose, and washing Mr. and Mrs. Harris a good morning, (for by this name they called them) moved towards the door; conscious if I lost this opportunity I should not easily find another, I begged to accompany them a little on their way; they hesitated as if unprepared to reply. Taking advantage of this Snort pause I proceeded.
tranger that I amj ladies, I Scarce know how to press, what to Sorego would render me wretched in the extreme; I would not for any consideration under heaven, wound the delicacy of your feelings, but how can I resolve to quit the lovely young lady I have
Spent
142
Ipent So many days to discover; stis proper, besore I can hope to be indulged in my request, that I announce myself— — name, ladies, is sommer ville, my family Seat in Northamptonshire, my forturle independent, and my enemies, I believe cannot impeach my character; permit me but to attend you Till in Sight of your home, when nothing short of your strict injundlion shall prevent my finding a proper in.. to your family.
“To doubt, ” replied misshartley, “however accidental our meeting this day, that you anxioufiy desired it,
would be, perhaps, an injury to your
\
'feelings; therefore, if my Sweet friends object not, I shall feel no impropriety in yielding to your request.” I bowed respedlfiiliy, when Lucy, the lovely laicy Spoke.
CC
The
THE emglisfi MERCHANT. i43
The agreeable manners and polite behaviour of Mr. Sommerville, ” she condescended to Say, turning gently round to her Sister, and friend, “will be ample Security for our indulgence, and if he will give his word to leave us when desired, she should not objecsl; to gratifying him in his request.” I made the amiable Lucy a relpe<5tful bow, and advancing to her lister. Said, may I trust So much Sweetness and good nature as I am confident you pos fess, will yield to my proposal, when Sandlioned by your lovely Sister, and your amiable friend.” She blushed
J
%
and dropped me a courtely.
We now proceeded fiovfiy along a narrow footpath. Situated between two high rows of beech trees; the conversation was general, and unembarrassed, still having walked little more than a mile, we came in view of a very neat
6
but
\
144
but Small house. The avenue we are now approaching, ” Said my lovely Lucy, “is the residence osour parents, and nov. Sir, we must claim your promise, as to Suffer you to attend us farther, (should we be observed) will be considered as an improper indulgence, ”
I could not but acknowledge the
O
strength of the observation, though it was vfith the greatest reluctance I could bring myself to comply, which however I determined immediately to do, rather than occasion the least distrels to my lovely Lucy and her friends.
Before I deprive myself of the Sight of those charms, ” addressing myself to the lovely Lucy, which have taken Such full possession of my heart, permit me to hope the rendering myself acceptable to your family, will not
break
  i45.
break in upon any prior engagement of the amiable miss smith’s?’*
She blushed, and just as I was on the point of proceeding, Miss Hartley, calling to her friend, Said, My dear Miss Smith, the Servant is coming down the avenue, we had better proceed forwards or we shall be discovered.” They all dropped me a cour tesy, when bowing relpedtfully to each I retired, and Sought my way back to the cottage, and then to rny Servant who remained where he was ordered but not without apprehension for my Safety, after riding ssowly back, I retired to confider on all that had occurred. I am, most relpedlfully.
Dear Sir,
You faithful obedient Servant,
HENRY SOMMERVILLE,
VOL. I
H
LET
i

f ''
LETTER. XX
f r
'f
4 •
RETER VAN HELMONT, ESQ
TO
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
Batavia.
MY DEAR SIR,
^1" 'A
HE packet you did me the honour to Send me, conveying your letter, and also one from Harry, with Sundry papers of accounts relating to the funding the several Sums that I have occasionally troubled you with, are all received; you have added an additional favour to the many you have before conferred, in the attention and
kindness shown to my Son, I trust he
will

/
  i47
will always retain a proper sense of the honour you have done him, and by his conduct and behaviour merit the distinction shown him, he has hitherto manifested the most promising dilpo sition, and I am certain has now opportunities of improving himself, which J trust and hope he will avail himself of. Sensible how much you delight in •acts of kindness and beneficence, I will .not contend with you relpecting harry’s expenses, but will confider myself as your debtor still Such time as I shall
have a personal opportunity to dis ‘charge the Same.
Your remark relpecling my property is very just, I have been uncommonly prolperous, and have acquired re at wealth, and begin to think of
.rr
o
quitting the busy Scenes which I have for many years been engaged in, for
H 2
the
148
#
the calm pleasures of retirement and peace; riches have not had with me the pernicious effeds they too commonly have over the minds of mankind, wdiea the thirst for fortune increases with the accumulation.
1 am perfedly contented on that point, convinced, I have much more than I deserve is I did not continue to feel I have Some to Ipare to the wants of a friend; indeed I have always considered great wealth as a blessing only when the possessor Seels a dilpofition to remove and alleviate the misery of others, by So doing we Second the views of the great dispenser of all tfiat we posse Is or enjoy, and alleviate that misery and distress that must unavoidably fall to the lot 6s Some, and are the humble instruments, in the hand of a great and all wise disposer of
events
  14^
events, of Some collateral benefit to mankind.
What a gratification to a feeling mind, to wipe away the widow’s tear, to protest her helpless innocent off ipring from want and penury, and what is infinitely more distressing, from the merciless fangs oflust, avarice, and re venge> the inseparable companions of a mean little mind.
But I beg pardon for this digression, the Subject led me insensibly to it: With this you will receive bills on. my Agent at Amsterdam, to the amount
which I beg to commit to the care of your broker. I have written a letter to Harry by this conveyance, which I beg you will be pleased to give him


Recom
150 THE ENGLISH meitehant.
* ¥ -
v.. \*
». ».
Recommending him to your friendly care and protcistion, I have the honour
to Subscribe myself ^

* •. J
p
Dear Sir


and most obedient.
1
humble Servant,
FITIR YAN fislmont*
■ : il

LET

  i5 I
I r
J I y
%
LETTER XXL
PETER VAN HELMONT, ESCU
TO
I
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ES(U
Batavia
MY DEAR HARRY
T
HE receipt of your letter gave me great pleasure, a pleashre proportionate with my regard for my dear shn; nothing short of the recovery of of your health could have prevailed on me to have permitted your leaving me, the more eipecially as I did not even then intend to remain any confi derable time at Batavia; I have made the proper applications for my return.
Ha
which
152

thi:
which I expect to receive by the next fleet, and having obtained it, aster first Settling all my concerns with the various merchants I have connexions with, I shall, as Speedily as possible, shape my course for Europe; but that, at the Soonest, will considerably exceed twelve months, therefore aniv/er this the first opportunity, let me learn the state of your health, and everything else that in any measure affects your happiness; upon every emergency or exigence whatever, apply yourself to Mr. Manley, whose good sense, experience, and regard, you may at all times rely upon, and make the Safe rule of your conduct; adl with, the Same open ness of behaviour to that gentleman as you have ever done to me, which will inshre you his friendship and regard, as well as fix his good opinion of your principles and character.
Young
  155
Young men cannot too ashduoiissy court the countenance and Support of characters like Mr. manley’s, who, to the best of dilpofitions has added great experience of men and things, at once possessing the best great qualities with the fewest foibles.
%
Remember me relpe<stfully to your hew acquaintance, Mr. Sommerville; cultivate his friendship; thole Mr. Manley esteems can never be unfit persons for you to associate with
Continue to preserve the little packet I entrusted to your care, it may one day be proper for you to appeal to the contents; may that day be averted, and the day not be very distant
when I again shall embrace you; ’till
«
then I recommend you to the protection of that power, without whose
Hi
Sovereign
154
Sovereign aid all bther protection avail eth little.
j'v
I am.
j.
Dear Harry,

Your affeciionate father.
P. V H EL M O NT
J
7
LETTER
  I 55
«• -
LETTER XXII
SIR GEORGE bingtey
i
TO
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESC
scariorougp.
DEAR SOMMERVILLE,
Mount street, Grofvenor square.
ARRIVED at my town holise, from the Seat of my uncle, Lord George Villers, yesterday forenoon, having spent, a month at his family mansion ih Shropshire very agreeably, his imrd ship is the elder brother of'my late honoured mother; he has sheen married, but is now a widower, and has no child.

his
156
his age between fisty and Sixty j he is rather more cheersul than persons generally are at that time of life, on which account the company he keeps is neither young nor old, grave nor gay, but an agreeable mixture of both.
He was always exceedingly fond of my mother; I am, by the Samily, thought extremely like her, on which account I have, from a child, been no Smajl favourite with my Lord; this circumstance, Superadded to the pros pedt there was of my Succeeding to his title and estates, has indeed made him look upon me more as his Son than his nephew; to do but common justice to his affection for me, I must declare he has been Sufped; ed (for his lady died when he was in the prime
of life) to have remained Single purely
\
on that account; however that may be,
it
  ISJ
it matters little, for I own I am not ambitious of a Coronet. The name my dear mother Sufficiently relpedted to embrace, will be always the heighi of my ambition to retain; yet, while)!
pay, from Sentiment, this little tribute
%
to her memory, I am equally desirous
• m
jto do justice to the affection and ten derness of my uncle.
He is, as may be naturally expe<5ted, very anxious to have me marry; on this point I am ready to meet his wish, provided he will patiendy wait ’till I shall find the lovely charmer whose chains the fickle god shall decree me to wear; all my feards, he has previ oussy engaged his own feelings, without once thinking of mine; a sailing, my dear Harry, that our Superiors frequently run into, (with the best of in tentions I grant them) but generally with the worst consequences to their
juniors;
KS THE engtrsh m^rchaht.
juniors; ethers having outlived their own passions, have almost Sorgot they ever felt any; while Some few, but few indeed they are, who feeling all thfe delicate emotions that fprihg from a tender reciprocal attachment, lend their aid to Soften, if they cannot remove, the rigours inssi(5led on the rising
generation, by those who are quittirig
It.
There must be Something very exr i traordinary in the acquirements and experience, on this particular subi jeds, the bias Seems to run all one way; shr ninety nine persons in every hundred have but one idea, So that there is nothing strikingly difgusting in the party, if the fortune is equivalent to their views, they are for marrying the Manors, leaving the union of hearts to be considered by the contracting parties asasecondary consideration;.
Horn
  15’9
How is this to be accounted for,
.
Sommerville? That our parents, uncles, and aunts, our dearest and nearest relatives, should sh egregioussy mistake the road to happiness? For to Suppose for a moment that any other principle can infitience them on this point, would be madneis in the extreme, and a hor rid return for their care of us in our infancy; yet that this is the fast, wosul experience daily evinces; perhaps, as Mr. Soame Jennings Says, ‘‘there must be a certain degree, or mixture osevil> in all human happiness;; that no good can exist without Some proportion of ill.”, Grant this, and the difficulty in a mannerdisappears. '
\
- Marriage; the happiest of all human institutions, the first great blefsing of liscj not being absolutely' friee from the leaven that attends the general mast of all. created beings, it is natural, and
not
io

not less kind of our parents, who jointly lenfible that Some little frailties attach to the nature of each, but that, on the whole, much happiness resuits to the community, conceal even from each other the real state of their minds, while they jointly concur, by an increase of wealth, and consequent independence arid pleasure, to lessen those evils no earthly power can entirely remove; and know from
their experience of mankind, and the general rule of their actions, that fortune, not merit, attract the million, and is the idol they all pay
f
their refpe<st to, wisely endeavour to
C
secure that to their children, which froip a Superiority of nature and .mind they once considered of less consequence than it now appears to be.
mg,
If any person doubts the position here laid down, let him produce me a single instance where the lost of fortune
2 has
s
THE; E N G. L. I S H M E, R C H A N T \ 161
has not entailed (from all but the discerning Seeling few) a mean affected concern, unmixed with those fine Sentiments poffess’d by noble natures only: Do not we daily observe men, who have na one quality preeminently con picuous but great wealth, treated with that respedt due only to virtue, and genius And yet was it poshble to unmask mankind, the very persons who pay this Servile court to their affluence,
despise the insignificance of the character, even at the moment they are expressing apparently the most disinterested regard!
Nothing pan equal the measn duplicity of Such conduct, Save the contempt I entertain for Such characters; one must class Such mean wretches Some where in the Scale of human beings, or otherwise character implies
more
i62 thi:
more than in my opinion they are in titled to receive.
But, as the Same author justly observes, “the chain is one continued link, from infinite persedtion to absolute nothing.” And I think you will agree with me, and own, there cannot be many links inserior to the one I have
described.
But as I think I have honoured with too much notice, what Scarcely deserves to be mentioned, I will conclude
by Subscribing mysels,
Dear Sommerville,
Y our’s most affedlionately.
G. BINGLEY.
LETTER

it
LETTER XXIII
MISS HARTLEY,
TO
• i
MISS JOHNSON
Elm House.
DEAR EMILY,
ITHOUT waiting for an an
f
Swer to my last, I shall resumc my pen, and acquaint my agreeable friend of all that has occurred in the neighbpurhood of Elm house.
‘ \
Since the interruption to our occasional amusements the evening the stranger So unexpededly made his en tre, we have avoided that pleasing retreat i
164 THE englisjt MERCHANT.
treat; indeed we have either remained more at home, or Srequented my more private walks.
’ T was in one of our morning strolls, about a week since, that we called at: the cottage, which is our usual practice when that rural Spot falls within, the compass of our promenade; we had. Scarcely Seated ourselves, when, who should enter at. the door leading from the orchard, but the identical stranger.
accompanied by the honest man who resides at the cot: It is not in my power to describe to you the Surprile that took posteffion of my agreeable friends and myself; however, our em barrassinent was a little relieved by Mr. Harris's apologising to us for the intro dudljon of a stranger, for Such he naturally considered him to be, who pairing by the Skirts of the road, and finding himself Suddenly Seized with a violent
  165
lent pain, and observing among the ■clump of trees near where his cottage stood, an appearance of Smoke, explored his way to it, had been greatly relieved by a glass of Spring water,
and was on the eve of retiring, when
/
we did his wise the honour to call upon her; we had not the least reason to doubt what the honest cottager Said, which in Some degree removed our embarrastrnent; but before either of my lovely friends or myself could reply to Mr. Harris, the stranger, the better to do away any wrong impression that he conceived might attach to the character of his host, from his unexpected appearance there, rose from his chair, and first making a relpestful bow, confirmed all that Mr. Harris had before advanced; adding, that tho’the meeting that morning was assuredly accidental he would readily acknowledge, it was
the
l66
the very thing of all others that he had anxioussy Sighed for, ever since the evening we met near the brook.

Having recovered from the furprisc this strange circumstance had occasioned, I took the lead of the lovely Lucy, who I perceived had not entirely conquered her amazement at what she Saw, perhaps it might be from what she felt, by declaring, that what passed that evening was of the less moment, as I felt no ill effects or consequences from it, that their meeting where they then was had greatly astonished them all; there could be no doubt, that not having the honour to know the gentleman I had addressed, and persuaded we should be shortly expeded to return, my lovely friends rising at the Same instant, we prepared to move; when the stranger, perceiving our intention, determined to avail himself of
the
T H E E N G l'lsh M E R C H A NT. 167
the opportunity his good fortune had thrown in his way, he very politely requested the honour to attend us part of our way home; and in order to remove from our minds the impropriety of complying with this request, proceeded by a declaration of his name, adding in what County his family Scat stood,
and concluded by Saying, his fortune was ample, and independent, and that he would leave his character to his
enemies with the most perfect, indifference as to the consequences; dewhile he was incapable of wounding the delicacy of our feelings, even for a moment, he had not power to re Solve instantly to quit she lovely charmer, he had Spent So many days to
discover.
daring.
■i 1
At the close of this Sentence he made a very respedful bow to my amiable Lucy, who was perfectly crimsoned all
6
over.
l68
over, which, without affecting to observe, he added, 'nothing less than the strongest injunction should prevent his doing himsels the honour of finding a proper introduction to the family.
Feeling for my lovely friend,, and being of consequence leis embarrassed, I replied, by observing, however accidental the meeting of this morning had been, that I would not injure his feelings So much as to entertain a doubt, it was of all other events, one that had produced the greatest happiness to himself and that, on my own part, if
my amiable friends railed no objection, I should feel no reluctance in comply ing with with his reouest.
The amiable miss Smith had by this time recovered her ushal lerenity of mind, and with all that grace and ease which is apparent in everything she
does.

  169
docs, turning gently round to me and Polly, and in the Sweetest tones of voice imaginable remarked that the gentle man like manner and polite behaviour of Mr. Sommerville would be Sufficient Security for their departing for once from the general rules that had hitherto been invariably attended to, and that she only should insist upon his
retiring, when a further indulgence
<
might be attended with consequences •painful to her feelings.
Her admirer bowed most relpeft fully, and instantly turning to her lister. Smiling Said, that the good nature and sweetness of temper So evidently pour trayed in every feature of her face, gave him every reason to hope she would condescend to Sandion what her lovely sipcer and charming friend had indulged him in. Polly looked com
9
pliance, and drbpt a graceful courtesy.
VOL, I.
I
As
lyo
As all parties had come to a kind of ecclairciffement, our embarrasshient bean to wear off, and a more general conversation Succeeded till we came to
the end of the avenue that leads immediately to the house, vrhen my amiable friend, miss Smith, declared she could not, with propriety, permit his attending them Sarther, lest he should be discovered, and occasion a distrcss which could not fail to affect his own feelings upon refieclion. He hesitated for a moment, as if unconscious how to cletermine; the struggle affected him
fensibiy; but instantly recovering a proper command of himsclf, and turning gracefully round to my lovely friend. Said, “before I quit that presence, that form, that has from the first moment I beheld it captivated my heart, and held it in bonds indissoluble, permit me to indulge the hope that
my
  II
my endeavours to Succeed with your honoured parents will not interfere with any views, any attachment previoufiy entered into.”
My lovely friend’s warm and em
passioned
tints were returning
fast.
when, perceiving a Servant approaching from the house, I called her attention to that circumstance, and by doing So relieved her delicate distress: We instantly made Mr. Sornmerville a courtesy, vrho bowing respectfuiiy to each, retired; we were all liicni: : ue rest of the way to the house, when, as I was expected to return home to dinner, we Separated; indeed, after what bad passed, had I previouily intended to have Spent the day t Mr. smith’s, I should at thisju"ct e nave deprived myself of that pka^mc : i coula not but feel, and tiicrefore acknowledge, my amiable lovely Lucy might natu
I a rally
172
rally wish to retire to her room, there to weigh and consider all that had pasted, which her good breeding and Stnie would not have Suffered her to have done, provided I had agreed to her request, and Spent the day with them.
Having paid my respects to the worthy Doctor and his lady, dropping each osmy friends a familiar courtesy, I turned my steps towards home, which shall now conclude this long letter.
Write me Soon, my love, and believe
me ever
Your affectionate
CAROLINE HARTLEY,
ILETTER
  i73
LETTER XXIV
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESCU
TO
SIR GEORGE BINGLEY.
Scarborough
DEAR BINGLEY,
HAD the pleasure to receive the letter you did me the Savour to address to me, by yesterday’s post, and embrace this early opportunity to make my acknowledgments for it; I think you have an excellent uncle in his lord ship, and that, with all his particulari ‘ ties, he is entitled to every attention you can pay to him: That he Should feel an interest, and desire to See you

happily
174
happily married, is natural, ’ds the consequence of his regard and affection, and however you may feel yourself indifferent with rtspect to a peerage, I am convinced it would not fail to have great influence with the greater part of our young men of fashion; it does by no means follow because he is desirous to See you Settled, that he has any intention to lay the least restraint upon your affections; ssiould he do that,, I fiiould think you justified to withstand the tyranny, for what less can it be called, when those who we might reasonably expect to pay the greatest regard to our happiness, blinded by views of ambition and grandeur, are the means of destroying it for ever.
I agree with you, my dear Bingley, that it is matter of much surprise and wonder what passion can possibly influence our experienced and dearest relatives
  i75
fives, in the constraint they unseelingly (for So it appears to me) lay upon our attachments; they can have nothing ultimately in view less than the conservation of our happiness, though it appears to our warm and empassioned ideas utterly repugnant to the acquirement of it; I am Sometimes more than
I
halsinclined to think, we ought indef serence to their affection and experience, to pay a little more regard to their opinions, than is usual for youth and inexperience to allow; and yet, to resign for ever the lovely woman, whosc personal charms and mental accomplishments have gained a Sull ascendancy over our afiedtions, is a Sacrifice i own myself utterly unable to make; if happiness is attainable on Such terms only, I am certain I shall risque the being miserable for life.
i4
How

6

How far your Savorite author’s opinion respecting the admission of evil in a general lense, may apply to this particular case, I am unprepared to determine; I entertain the highest relpedt for his clear and conclusive manner of reasoning, and am inclined to think with you, that there is a certain mixture of alloy, or evil, in the happiest connexions that v/isdom itself could form, but then, as he very justly remarks, if the good resulting upon the whole exceeds the little difficulties and evils attendant on it; it is, nevertheless, a consummation devoutly to be wished, ” and can only be Supported with becoming temper and philosophy when the object is Seledled by our own unbiassed Sentiments of regard and affec tion; let age be content to direct our passions, without attempting to six in
an arbitrary manner our affections, the
heart
  i77
heart and Sentiment alone can fix, that feels its own best interest, and prudently directed, can Seldom fail to accomplish it.
That affluence, my dear Sir George, influences too generally the mean and the base, cannot be denied; nor is it strange it should do So : How can we reasonably expect a nobleness of Spirit and Sentiment from those little minds, who, fixing all happiness in their eventual sticcess in life, are incapable of feeling a pleasure abstracted from that pursuit?
Depend upon it, should their endeavours be crowned with luccels, the Same mean principle that induced their Servility, will not fail as arrogantly to assume an equal share of consequence; ’tis a part of their very nature; for none but the in, ward!y proud can Submit to be Sordidly mean; fortune is their desideratum, the want of it constitutes every misery;

15

tne
lys the'
the man who meanly centres all happi ness in his personal aggrandisement, must be a character contemptible beyond comparison, he must stave lost every Social Seeling, in the narrowness of his opinions in his little sels: How unlike is Such a character to our common friend, Mr. Manley! whose principle pleasure Springs from diffusing happiness to all around him, and, I am Sully persuaded, is instead of ten thousand per annum, his whole estate produced but one Solitary hundred, like the man of ross, he would divide that little with the worthy in distress; stis from Such acts our greatest pleashre arises, ’tis through them we anticipate that happiness the Sather of mercies has treasured up for the just and benevolent, who infinitely Superior to the narrow view that instuences the bulk of mankind, are constantly
endea
  i79
endeavouring like good and saithsul stewards, to alleviate the distress ostheir Sellow creatures, by distributing to their wants and necessities a part and portion of their abundance.
The man who acts on principles like these acquires more greatness in one day, than kings or kingdoms can boast in ages; he wants no elegant mausc leum to point out where his remains were deposited; he cannot die while one kindred Spirit exists; he enjoys while living, the happiness his good ness had diffused, and the tears osthousands Sail lamenting over his bier.

Did the Same benevolent Spirit happily pervade the breasts of the noble and the rich, what misery would in con sequence be dispelled? Did they Sora moment reflect that what Serves to sur nish out a Single banquet, would give
I 6
Sood
I,
l80
food and raiment to hundreds, the innate pleasure it could not failto yield them, must assuredly amply compensate for the Sacrifice they make to shlendour.
.Dwas the mileiy, penury, and want,,

in a Sister kingdom, that pervaded th lower ranks of Citizens, which effected the change in their Constitution, added to the insufferable arrogance and pride of the noblesse. Ill-fated Mo
Jit.
narch, that could Suffer his resentment to Albion to blind from his sight the natural consequence of his measures: Could the Ministry of France for a moment suppose that the liberty they took so much pains to plant in America could ultimately fail to raise up its head at home? Could it reasonably b expected, that an enlightened nation should waste their treasures, and Ipill their blood, in defence of a caiife, that
caiife

  Ibl
cause independence, and themselves remain in a state of fiavery? Most as suredly not.
What, has since happened in that distracted country was the effect of their blinded but un2: enerous interfer
o
enc
; Surely that unhappy Monarch must have Seen very little into conse quences, or must have been basely betrayed by the men in power who had his confidence.
But a truce with politics;
let us
court pleasure unalloyed with pain, or painsul reflections j in this happy Ifle, where the Monarch is loved, respected, and revered, not So much for the high station he fills, as for his princely and moral virtues, it would prove a blessing to our Country is the Nobility of both Sexes would emulate the Royal pair.
5
but
152
but in this age osdissipation and extravagance it cannot be expected.
Adieu, my dear Bingley, write me osten, and at all times believe me.
Your affectionate.
H. SOMMERVILLE,
LETTER
  183
LETTER XXV
MISS JOHNSON,
TO
MISS HARTLEY.
Gower street ^ Bedford square.
DEAR CAROLINE,
MUST rely entirely upon the good nature of my Caroline, to exciise my Silence; I have no indispofition to plead in extenuation, Sori Seel myself perse6tly in health, and my glass tells me I never looked better in my life; and you know, my dear, very few of our Sex ever doubts that part of the evidence; but however I am not entirely without an excuse, having been
a
184
*
a full month at the Seat of my aunt
Lady louisa spenser, in the neigh
^ •
of vsindforj their Majesties were down the principal part of the time, which consequently drew there many of the Nobility and Gentry, So that the evening promenade on the terrace was attended by persons of the
first rank and fashion; the king’s band
/
constantly playing, nothing could exceed the iplendor of the Scene, Save the polite carriage and condescension of their Majesties, and their lovely and amiable daughters, the princess Royal, Sophia, and Elizabeth; what a pity, (for in every Sense of the idea I So e^s timate it. to be) that Such lovely and truly accomplished women, should, from state necessity, be left to vfither on the stem; I think there is very little chance of finding protestant Princes
for husbands, and indeed when I re
fiedt
y
I
tire   185
stecst Upon the Sufferings osthe amiable
Matilda
O
•seel mysels affected to think there is even a probability of either of these lovely Princesses falling a Sacrifice to the brutal infamy of a foreigner.
With Such thoughts I frequently return home, they attend me all the even ing, in spite of the charms of company, conversation, or cards, and when I retire for the night, obtrude themselves still upon my mind: How apt are the unthinking part of our Sex, my
dear Caroline, to envy Superior grandeur and state; and yet upon a nearer view, how little, how very little is it to be desired? next to health, is liberty, dear liberty! stis that that Sweetens the various ills ins^arable from our state, and makes the cottage more precious to its humble possessor, than the Spendid palace of a
stave
The first blessing in life
l86
stave 3 and yet these lovely accomplished pnnceffes are, from the policy of government, deprived of exercising that liberty even on the most natural, most interesting occasion; upon that occasion, of all others, that is to determine their happiness for lise.
Poor hapless woman. Subjected by nature to many weaknesses, unknown, unselt by the other Sex, and equally So to their arbitrary pleasure and policy!
On my return to town, my Mamma gave me both your letters, which lay now unsolded before me; your first J will pass over in order to attend more Sully to the interesting part of the latter.
Well, my dear, (as Hamlet Says in the play, Oh, my prophetic stjul, the
stranger 1”
I hope 3/011 wfill in Suture
pay a little more respect to rxiy opinions

3
  1 §7
nions, and not place what is the result of my Superior observations, to the account of conceit and inexperience; I should have liked much just to have had a peep when the stranger made his appearance; what a Scene of consufion you dear girls must have been in? The lovely Lucy most; she conscious of the thest, must have stood lels convicted; your finding the use of your tongue was, my dear, a fortunate circumstance for your amiable friend; it gave her time to recover from her surprize, from what she Saw, from what she Selt.
I begin to interest myself for poor Sommerville, who must have Suffered no little Since the evening you first met at the brook; had he permitted your leaving him, or even any idle ex cuses to have prevailed with him, after So opportune a meeting, I shostld have
given
i88
given him up as a Sellow of no Spirit; I think you complied with his request in a manner becoming your dignity, and capitulated upon very proper terms; you granted to his desire what would have been cruel to have longer denied, (your own feelings out of the question) the condition you made the consequence of your compliance, was very necessary, his own good lense must allow it was so: - If it were possible to know, (what I believe few women ever did) a man’s real thoughts, I dare engage he wished their house just then had stood at the other corner of the County, and would have as soon met an elder brother, as the dreadful
avenue that led to it.
I feel very much for your amiable friend, when he addressed himself to her so particularly — that was a moment interesting
  189
— he all anxious ex
teresting to both
pedation, she all delicate sensibility and distress; the appearance osthe Servant was critical, it relieved poor Lucy, and lest no very dreadsul apprehension in the bosom of her admirer.
I shall be all expedlation still I receive your next, but this I had no occasion to have hinted, as you must know your own Sex Sufficiently, to conceive our impatience in matters oslove, even though, like your poor friend, a woman only looks on. I remain, my dear Caroline,
Yours affedlionately.
EMILY JOHNSON,
LETTER
it
LETTER XXVI
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ISO
TO
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ,
Scarborough.
DEAR SIR,
N my Sormcr letter I acquainted you with my having unexpectedly discovered my lovely incognita, and osevery thing that had occurred before, or past that morning, at the cottage; I returned to my apartments infinitely happier than I had ever been Since the evening we first met at the brook, in order to allow
my amiable Lucy a proper and de
>
time to consult her own Secfings,
as

I 91
as well as to afford a like reliesto my perturbated Spirits; I took three or four days to concert my Suture plan, and to learn as many particulars osmr. smith’s Samily as were necessary for me to know; I took all possible care So to make my inquiries as to evade all Suspicion of my real purpose, and learned, with the highest pleasure, that he was in orders, and had held' the living he now enjoyed many years, that he had constantly resided upon it, was universally beloved by the poor, for his great humanity and tenderness, and equally So by the gentry for his piety and learning; that his lady was a most deserving woman, yet living, and that they had no other children than two daughters, who for duty, modesty, sense, and sweetness of dispoiition, were respefted by their elders, and held up as a pattern to their young intimates; this part of the inquiry you will naturally conceive
must
192 THE .
must have afforded me the highest Sa
tisfadlion imaginable.
I had still one material point to learn, and that was, whether either and which of the lovely listers had formed any engagements; I did not venture to asse this question direcstly, but hinted that Such amiable young ladies could not fail to have many admirers in So gay a city.
This remark was very generally as fented to, but in whatever company I ventured to drop the hint, it was never followed up with aiiy thing like an af fimation: the reply it generally produced was, that Mr. and Mrs. Smith were fcrupuloufiy nice and observant into what company they entered, or even occasionally met, which. So far from appearing to be the least restraint upon their actions, appeared to be
equally
  .i93
equally natural to their dispofitions and cast osthinking.”
\
The man who has felt a Sincere attachment Sora lovely amiable woman, alone can conceive the pleasure I felt at the result osmy inquiries: I deserted the rooms and public walks entirely, devoting mysels to private cogitations, or to Some Secluded walk or ride.
At lenorth the time I had allowed
mysels in order to prepare my lovely
Lucy to expect to hear Surther from
me came, and immediately aster break
Sast on the appointed day I addressed a
letter to Mr. Smith, with every insor
mation that he might previousty wish
to have, respecting my family, fortune
«
and connexions. Soliciting the honour osan interview whenever most convenient and most agreeable to himself.
VOL. I.
K
While
194   -
While my servant was absent on this duty, I endeavoured to amuse mysels in the best manner I could, to divert those reflections that, in Spite of all my philosophy, all my hopes, would yet intrude upon my mind; at length the Servant returned, but how shall I ex press my astonishment and concern, when, instead osan answer to my letter, the fellow acquainted me, the Samily were ail unexpectedly gone the day before for London, that there was only
A
one servant left behind, to take care of the house, receive letters and messages.
And where is the letter I gave you, ” Says I to my man, with more anger than ever I expressed in my life.
I left it, and please your honour,
with the Servant, not having any pre
✓
vious orders to the contrary.”
U
You
  i95
You have acted like a blockhead, ” Says I, and hastily Springing from my Seat, retired to conceal my emotion; I cursed the Sellow for a fool, in leaving the letter with the Servant, and myseif a thousand times for my false delicacy in taking four days when I should not have lost an hour; I am not easily ruffled in my temper, but you must allow I had some provocation; indeed I never in my life, vas So utterly disappointed; never had my hopes before received So complete a check; I form --, ed a hundred resolutions in as many minutes, and none of them were equal to my wishes and expc(5l: ations; one instant I was for going, like a knight errant, to the Parsonage house, as if I doubted the account I had received,
V
another I was for Setting off post for the Metropolis.
k2
At
196
At last, wearied with refiedtions as idle as they were useless, ringing for
my Servant, I ordered mysels to be denied for that day, feigning an indilpo sition; before the night came, from agitation of spirit I was really ill, had no little fever, ordered some whey, and went early to bed; the greater part of the night was spent in planning how I should afl when the morning arrived, at length I fell into a doze, and found myself a little refreshed when I awoke.
Having dressed, breakfasted, and ordered the horses to be ready immediately, I mounted, my Servant following, and went directly to the cottage; the honest peasant was fortunately at home; I made him, without any re erve acquainted with my name and rank in life, with my pretensions, or in other words, more properly Speaking,
miss
that
  t97
that owing to a mistaken pundilio .1 had fatally lost the opportunity I ought to have embraced j that on Sending my Servant to the parsonage I had learned, to my Surprise and concern, the Doctor, his lady, and Samily, were gone very unexpectedly the day besore for London, that after what I had related to him he could not wonder at the disappointment I expressed, at the concern I felt; that the principal reason why I gave him this trouble was from a hope, through his long knowledge of the family, he might be able to give me Some little light or clue in what part of London it was likely I might hear of them.
He gave me a very patient relpect full hearing, and also when he replied to my observations, expressed the greatest concern for their departure; what had occasioned So Sudden a disappearance


198
appearance was far beyond his ability to account for; but he was convinced as they had never before in his memory lest the parsonage, the occasion must not only be very extraordinary, but very pressing; he concluded by remarking, the whole parish was interested in the happiness of the Doctor and his family, and must, of course,
anxioussy expect their return.
i was by this time convinced Mr. Harris knew as little of their retreat, or the occasion of it, as myself; wishing this honest man and his wife a good morning, I kissed the pretty little girl, and having previoussy put ten guineas into a piece of paper, gave it into her hand, and before, in all probability, she had given it to her mother, I had reached the road, and of course was Soon beyond their pursuit, should their
delicacy
  i99
delicacy or Spirit wish to have returned
It.
I re mounted my horse, and rode gently towards the town, retiring to my apartments, in order to relieve my mind, by unbosoming mysels to my ever respected friend: Whether to pay Mr. Hartley a visit, or wait for an opportunity to meet his lovely daughter, and learn from her the cause of this very Sudden and unexpected absence, I am as yet undetermined. Find my lovely Lucy I most assuredly will, nor shall I be happy one moment still I have, should her affections be disen gauged, it shall be my only study to merit the distinguished honour of her hand.
Mankind too generally mistake their own cast, perhaps 1 may do So in this
instance, but I think I have as little of
k4
the
loo
the coxcomb in my composition as young men of fortune generally have, and yet I am blockhead enough to flatter myself I have not much to dread from a rival, provided her heart is no ways previously engaged j and yet I trust thii idea Springs infinitely stronger in my breast from my passion for the lovely Lucy, from my fears and apprehensions of losing her, than from a weak and idle conceit of my own person and acquirements. My respectful compliments to Mr. Van Helmont, concludes me, my dear Sir,
Your most obedient humble Servant,
H. SOMMERVILLE
9
•!
* i.
LETTER
\
  201
LETTER XXVII
REV. MR. SMITH,
TO
CHARLES HARTLEY, ESQ
%
* _ _ Ormand street, Bhomjbury.
DEAR SIR,
HE third day in the evening from, my leaving the parsonage, v/e arrived in town, and though we all were very much Satigued, we determined, aster taking a cup of tea, to repair immediately to the houle of my lister in law, in Great Ormond street, Bloomshury : Tea over, we put our resolution in execution, and arrived at Mrs. hamilton’s at about eight o, ’clock. -
K 5
We
002
We had Scarcely removed our packages from the coach that conveyed us to the house, and taken a chair, before the physician arrived, this circumstance was the very thing I had been wishing, as from that gentleman I should not fail to o ain the best and fullest infor
o
mation respecting her disorder, but also his opinion of her cafe; we waited with all imaginable patience his return down from the sick lady’s chamber, when addressing myself to him, first giving him to understand the relation we stood in with Mrs. Hamilton, I made more particular inquiries; first as to the nature of her complaint, the particular stage of it, the fyshptoms attendant on it, and his opinion respecting it: Her complaint, he observed, was, in his opinion, an inward decay; her lungs he
presumed were affected, and her whole system nervous in a very great degree;, shc might, however, he Said, remain
alternately
  20j
alternately better and worse, for Some considerable time, though he would not engage that she should continue even Sora day; that he had more than a week back ssightly touched upon her supposed danger, and expressed his concern that she should have none but Servants about her; she appeared greatly affected, indeed So much So, that I wished I had used more caution; when, aster a moment’s pause, and Sorcing a Smile upon her palid cheek, first begging me to draw my chair nearer to
/
her’s, she thus proceeded..
Ever since I had the misfortune to lost Mr. Hamilton I have, upon all occasions, where medical shill was required, troubled you, to attend me; the very friendly and feeling rnanner with which you have discharged that duty, has long won my confidence and esteem, let that plead my excuse for
k6
the
204 the   JUERCHANT.
the trouble I am now giving you; I am entirely of your opinion respecting the precarious state of my health, and had you been Silent upon the subje(5l:, it was Sully my intention to have requested, as a particular Savour, the unbiassed judgement of your mind; you have humanely prevented my Solicitation on that point. From this day I shall endeavour to prepare mysels Sora day infinitely more awsul; the cares of this life, and the little concerns of it, shall ik)t engage my attention any longer, but in order to Set properly about doing sh, ’ds fit my passions and resentments be not only removed from my mind, but also from that obstinate unforgiving heart where they have too long held an absolute poffeshon. I bless the father of mercies that he has been please to awake in me a proper sense of my duty, and for having' gracioussy indulged me with time to
repent.
  205
repent, to repair, is yet I can, the un kindness I have been guilty of.”
"I have a Sister, Sir, a younger Sister by three or four years, my'prejudices, I thank heaven, are now removed, and I will endeavour to do her at last that justice, my unforgiving Spirit has So long with held 3 she has been married for nearly twenty-three years to a most relpedtable worthy divine, that marriage destroyed my peace, it was my misfortune to view Mr. Smith with too favourable an eye, for that is the doctor’s name, and though I have been long perfedly convinced my dear lister was Superior to the baseness of injuring designedly my peace, I nev could pardon those charms that had done So, even involuntarily: To do but common justice to her husband I must de ^: lare he never paid me other than the
relpe(st
206
respest and attention due to the lister of the woman he loved, but blinded by my attachment, I could never pardon the man who had been indifferent to my charms, nor forgive the lister who had innocently occasioned it: I married Mr. Hamilton three or shur years after, and was treated more tenderly than I dcserved, for tho’ I gave him my hand, my heart was not in my power to give him.”
He has been dead near fourteen years, and aster Some trifling legacies lest to his distant relatives, I found myself in possession of more than Sixty, thousand pounds; I have lived So retired and on So moderate a plan, that I have increased what his affection gave me greatly?lince that time: I have never correlponded with my Sister or her worthy ipouse for many years, though I never alsigned any reason for
my
  207
my neglect, whether my real motive was ever discovered by either is more than I am able, to determine; however that be, they have acted with becoming dignity and Spirit, for they have never once condescendedto Solicitthe Smallest Savour from the vroman, who had long Since lost the feeling of a Sister; this cruel piece of unkindness I wish to do away, and to remove from their minds for ever, and the better to effecst it, I shall this day diresst my houle keeper, to. Send this (putting a letter in my hand) by express; which I beg you will do me the favour to read.”
I thought. it no time to refuse the obliging her, particularly as I law very forcibly what she suffered in her Spirits I immediately complied, and read as sollow^s.
t
SIR
ao8
SIR,
I have for many years been So cruelly negle<5lsul of you and your Lucy,
that I can hardly find language to exr press my concern for it, and yet, hear ven bear me witness, before whole throne I shall shortly appear I am less culpable and more deserving your pity than your hatred; the prejudices .of women, like their affections are not easily removed, time and refiection only can effect that, it has done So with me, and I wish, while yet I can receive it, to have your forgiveness for my very cruel treatment; let me entreat you to lose no time, even a single day
may dole the scene for ever, bring up your poor wife, I would have Said, had I not wounded her peace too deeply.
by
  2o9
by negleff, my lister, my once and now again beloved Sister, and with her bring your children.
Should I not be permitted the hap piness once more to See her, or you and your Samily, accept, though late, my Sincere contrition 5 at Mess. Drummonds* I have lodged my will, in which I have endeavoured at least to evince in what disposition of mind I died, however ungeneroufiy ’till now I have lived i in case I should not Survive your arrival, in my Secretary is a letter for you, directed to Mess. Drummond, to deliver up my will, I having appointed you my Ible executor.
Your friend and Sister,
MARY HAMILTON
She
210
She now proceeded. ‘‘ I have every hope they may arnve while yet I have power to exchange forgiveness with them, or more properly Ipeaking, to receive their pardon, Tis I alone who have offended : but I Seel myself faint, and for the prestnt will retire, I need not urge your attendance, you best know what I want.”
This conversation, Sir, passed the day she wrote to you, and I think it may be as well for ail parties that you leave her to her repose for the evening, as she seems dilpofed to take Some rest, and there is, at least I hope So, no
I will call in the morning early, and, with your leave, will consult in what manner to break your arrival to her.
immediate danger:
I took him relpedlfully by the hand, (his honest manner had won upon me
much)
  211
much) thanked him very cordially for all he had communicated to me, and Seeing him to the door, returned to the parlour; it was with the greatest difficulty I could prevail upon my affectionate wife to retire for the evening, and my poor girls, who had never leen their aunt, was deeply affecled.
After taking a light Supper we prepared to retire; the housekeeper ae quaintest Mrs. Smith that her lady had given the necessary and proper directions for everything against our arrival, and that her orders were to con fider her lister as her mistress, and in everything consult her pleasure and convenience.
The apartments allotted for our usc were Spacious, and elegantly furnished, wishing our dear girls as easy a night as their agitated Ipirits could admit of,
we
212
we retired to our chamber, refletsting on the inscrutable ways of Providence, that it should please his power to work So great a change in the mind of this
o o
unhappy woman, from whose hand for many years we had not once been obliged with a Single line.
withthese refiedtions I laid my head
upon the pillow, anxiously wishing for the
morning.
lest anything should unfortunately deprive us of the happi ness osseeing her, of Ipeaking peace to her afhi(sted mind.
The morning at length appeared, we breakfasted early, and about ten o’clock the worthy physician came: After having made the necessary inquiries of her woman, how she passed the night, cc. he desired her to meri tion to her lady that he had paid her an early visit; this was no Sooner done,
than
  213
than he was requested to walk up, which he immediately did, and Sound her exceedingly low, though persedtly collected and Sensible j aster Some little time he ventured to ask her when she expected her Sister and Samily.
I thank you most kindly, my dear Dr. Grainger, ” she replied, in a low voice, for all your kind Solicitude, but I begin to be apprehensive that happiness will be very shortly out of my power to receive; I feel ruy dissolution approaching fast, I wish they had complied with my request, and left their home upon the receipt of my letter; but I have perhaps offended beyond forgivenels: Oh, I have been cruel in the extreme, ”
‘‘compofe your Ipirits, my dear Madam, take down a little of this draught, which I have purposely
brought
214
brought in my pocket, ” which she instantly did, when observing her more composed and tranquil, he Said, perhaps Mr. and Mrs. Smith may be nearer than you imagine they are.’
She Sighed very deep, and Seizing hold of his hand, exclaimed, deceive not my hopes, as in your hour of need you wish for peace, for mercy.”
Utterly unable any longer to Subject her to the distress she evidently Selt, he rang the bell, and turning to the servant, desired her to beg Mr. and Mrs. Smith to walk upstairs, and then turning round to Mrs. Hamilton, pronounced they were below. ‘‘then heaven Support me through this last trial, and I shall yield my Spirit in peace to the mercisul disposal of an all wise and benevolent Being.”
By
  2 I i;
By this time Mrs. Smith approached her bed fide, and removing the curtains with her hand, beheld her dying lister: Utterly unable; to Support the Sight, she dropped her head upoff the pillow: My angelic patient had just power to utter, ‘‘ forgive me, Lucy, O Sorgive your repentant lister, ” and without a groan expired.
The physician immediately stew to the assistance of Mrs. Smith, and by the help of the Servants removed her to her chamber, when, by the aid of proper cordials he recovered her, when finding she was a little composed, he advised her to lose a little blood, to which she readily consented, and indeed it was with the greatest difficulty I could Support myself upon my Seet, though from the duties of my office I frequently attend at these affedbing trials.
6
After
\
216
aster Some little time the Doctor took his leave for the present, promising to call in the evening.
He came, and exceedingly happy I was that he did, for my dear wise was greatly indilpoled, and my poor girls, Lucy and Polly, affected in a very great degree; it was all I could do to Speak peace to their young and Seeling hearts, to Sooth their distress for the loss of a relation they had never seen, and who still then had cruelly neglected their deferring mother.
— But, peace to her manes, would to heaven she had lived for many years in the Same dilpofition she died.
I beg your pardon for trespassing so long upon your leisure, pray present Mrs. smith’s and my daughters best
respects
  11^
respects to your lady, and at all times believe me to be,
Y our most obliged.
And obedient humble Servant,
BOYLE SMITH
VOL, I.
L
LET
2l8
LETTER XXVIII
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.,
TO
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ES(U
Hadley Grove.
DEAR SIR,
AM favoured with both your letters, and share very feelingly in the disappointment you must experience, in the sudden departure of your amiable girl; perhaps, my dear Harry, your lucy’s bosom may be as deeply affected as your own: It must assuredly be something very interesting that could call Mr. Smith and his family so un
expededly to town; perhaps his stay
may
  2 1 9
may not prove osany great length, and as you have no particular private bu smess to occasson your return, wait with all the patience you can, and in order to render your stay lest irksome, you may expect in a few days my young
friend, Mr. Van Helmont, will join
!
you; I begin to think Sea" bathing may be not only agreeable but usefust in restoring him to perfeds health, and indeed he has expressed a wish to try its effect; your being there will render my presence less necessary, as you cannot fail to be agreeable company each for the other: Be So obli^inc^ as
o o
to provide for him Suitable apartmtents, as near your own as you conveniently can; my Servant will attend him in his excursion, and while he pleases to remain there, indeed he has my orders
to consider himself as Mr. Van Hel
%
domestic : the very relpedlable character the worthy Doctor So uni
l2
versall
/
220
f
verially bears, must afford you the most pleasmg presages of Suture happiness, Should your charmer’s heart be entirely disengaged.
A young lady brought up So immediately under the eye of stich parents, may reasanably be expected to have attained advantages infinitely shperior
t
to what are commonly met with in the Sex; the example of Such a mother cannot fail of having great influence.
not only in forming their young minds, but also on their future conduifl thro’ life j where the natural bias of the mind is unvitiated, example Seldom fails to have the most Salutary and produce the most happy effects; ’tis the want of proper example and restridtions, that is attended with such ill, Such fatal Con sequences to the most lovely part of
the Sex, and fills our stews and bagnios with the unhappy victims of lust and
neglect:
•>
  'I'll
neglect: Many well-meaning, well m tentioned parents are, from an obstinate
w
unforgivingness of temper, the caiif of much consequential misery to their children; if the commission of a Single crime is attended with proper contrition and abhorrence, and if a cautious guard upon our future conduct bids the fairest to atone to the divine justice and mercy. Surely what may humbly and rationably be hoped to attain that grace, that favour, from the Deity, ought to insure it from the offended mortal. And yet every day evinces the contrary — this single falle step, in a female’s character, shall, from the unforgiving principle that prevails too generally in the breast of an offended parent, plunge the unhappy (perhaps repentant wretch) into misery for life.
Whenever I have considered this Subject, I have been half dispofed to
L 3 fear,

22
fear, that at that great and awful day, whien every action, and the motive that induced it, comes impartially to be adjusted and Settled, it will be happy for parents if no portion of the Subsequent misery, the certain consequence of an unforgiving principle, attach not to them.
But as I hope and believe you, my dear Harry, are as free from folly and vice as youth in general are, I will cease to dwell upon this unpleasant theme, persuaded that if Some few follies make any part of your constitution, an unbecoming resentment is no part of your difposition. Every happiness await you, my dear Sommerviile, is the Sincere wish of
I
Your affectionate friend.
CHARLES MANLEY.
LETTER
  22j
LETTER XXIX
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESQ
TO
PETER VAN HELMONT, ESQ
Hadley Grove,
HONOURED SIR
HAD the pleasure to receive sasc the letter you did me the honour to write : It was a very sensible pleasure for me to learn your intention to visit Europe, I hope your next will insorm me about what time I may flatter my sels with the happiness of embracing my dear Sather.
L 4
I
224
I beg leave to affure you, I am never unmindsul osy our advice in the Smallest
matters.
Little or nothing has hitherto
occurred to render my application to Mr. Manley necessary, whenever anything does, I shall appeal to him with the lame freedom I would my dear ir, to yourself: I am convinced the interest that gentleman takes in everything that relates to your Son, will induce him most readily to Savour him with his Sentiments and advice.
C
o
I am Spending my time at Mr. man ley’s leat in Norfolk, in a very agreeable manner : exercise, books, and conversation, fill up the greater part of it, and I think I am much better for the change of air: Though Mr Manley, who is ever Solicitous for the hap piness of his friends, while he Sacrifices to the pleasure of their company, has advised me to join Mr. Sommerville,
who
I

who has been Some time at Scarbo
I
rough, an ancient town in the North of England, there I shall have the advantage of sea bathing, as well as a thorough change of air, as the breezes from the
Sea. must affecst the country many miles round; I expect: to let off.in three or four days at farthest, that I may not lost the benefit of the proper Season.
Mr. manley’s improvements at his stat require his judicious eye to attend to; otherwist, I have not the least
doubt but that in his .goodness he would,
%
even in Ipite of my remonstrances to
the contrary, have given me his company, Mr. Sommerviile to the advantage of a finisned education, has joined the positest manners, and the
most engaging affability; with him I
cannot fail to be very agreeably amused,
gay places will
his knowledge of thoi
afford me every information I Ihoultl
LS
otherwise
2i6
Otherwise want, and his genteel and nu merous acquaintance will Serve to introduce me, by degrees, with the manners of the country.
With every wish for the health and happiness of my dear father, I beg leave to subscribe myself,
Dear Sir,
Your most affectionate
and dutiful Son,
H. V HELMONT
LETTER
  227
LETTER. XXX
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ
TO
PETER VAN HELMONT, ESC
Hadley Grove
MY DEAR SIR,
EMBRACE this opportunity to acknowledge the receipt of your Savour; to learn the state osyour health affords me always the most heartfelt Satisfaction, but the pleasure to think I shall shortly be again happy in your company, fills my mind with unspeakable Satisfadlion; I shall await that happy day, with the greatest anxiety.
l6
The
228
The bills you remitted to my care have all been punctually honoured, and' placed in your name in the Four percents. Harry, as you will learn of course (for his letter to you accompanies this) is much improved in his health, and appears tolerably reconciled, which is principally owing to the expectation he has of very soon embracing an affectionate parent; happy as he affects to appear, I can lee frequently a visible uneafiness upon his countenance, an inward unconcern, which he cannot conquer; himself no stranger, to the perils and dangers of So long a passage, he at times is allap prehenfion for your Safety; you have gratified me highly in permitting me the pleasure of Supplying all his pecuniary wants, I assure you he is not un deserving of the unlimited confidenc you have placed in himj if ever his
expenses
e
\

rt 1
. ^
expenses wear an aspedt of profusion, they are amply overbalanced in the motive that induced it; he generally takes up once a month fifty pound, for hisi pocket, a Sum, confide ring the company I have thrown him in, and as it includes everything he purchases, (your great fortune considered, and he your only child) is no ways extravagant : dress, company, cards, and Servants vales take off no Small portion of it: He possesses your liberal and feeling spirit, and that he does, take the following little trait of my young friend’s character, which I have come to the knowledge of, while he believes me a stranger to the circumstances.
In one of his morning rambles

in the
little hamlet that Surrounds my seat, he had Sat down, as was his custom, when he felt himself fatigued, at the foot of a large venerable oak, to amuse
himself
230
himself in reading Some few passages from a Savorite author, when he found his meditation interrupted by a voice at Some Small distance from where he was Seated; this naturally, while it Surprised him, awakened his curiosity, and though he is Superior to the mean ness of listening for a moment to any private conversation, he felt himself unaccountably urged to remain unobserved.
The parties were a young man and maiden, the Son and daughter of two of my tenants; this young couple, who had Singled out that retirement to vent their mutual grief on the dire necessity of their humble state; the young man lamented, with much feeling, the inability of his father to place him in a Small farm adjoining the one he occupied; and his mistress, the unkindness of her parents, who, though able to
5
the
  2JI
the accomplishment of their wishes, had no dilpofition to do So; aster exchanging mutual promises of uncea sing regard, they were on the point of Separating, when observing their intention, he quitted his concealment and approached 'them.
On their observing him, they were both astonished, and Seemingly much hurt, when he addressed them nearly in the Sollowing manner.
\
You will both of you, I hope, pardon this interruption on your privacy, had I observed you on my coming to this Ipot, I should most assuredly have quitted it for Some other part, equally Suited to my contemplation, and lesc you to the enjoyment of your mutual passion j however, I am not altogether Sorry that Sat has thrown me in the way of learning your attachment and
regard
2j2

regard; Savour me. Said he, addressing himseif to the young man, 'with your name and where you re fide, and also with that of your amiable mistress, it may be in my power, if the inquiry I propose to make answers my expectation, and I entertain very little doubt but it will, to render you Some Service; meet me at this place this day week, at the feme hour, and come prepared to tell me what Sum will place you in the little farm you are So Solicitous to enter upon.”
If they were no little astonished before,. their astonishment was now greatly increased; the young woman trembled very much, and turned instantly
t
pale, which her lover observing Seized her in his arms, and placed her gently on a bank that was opportunely near him.
She
  CLS^
She Soon recovered herself, which her lover perceiving, he lest her, and advancing towards him, making not an ungraceful bow. Said, ‘^that your appearance. Sir, when we considered ourselves alone, hath greatly surpised
this young woman and equally myself, is unnecessary for me to declare, your observation must have convinced you that it has done So; that alarm we could have conquered; but the interest, you So nobly take in the happiness of Such entire strangers, fills my heart with the most lively Sentiments of gratitude and relpedl; my amiable sally’s character and deportment will, I am confident, upon an inquiry being made, raise her in your opinion, and I humbly hope and conceive I shall be found with no other real or imputed Saults than are common to my youth.”
Harry
234
Harry minuting down in his pocket book their names and stations, and wishing them a happy issue to their difficulties, he returned home.
An unusual concern dwelled for Some days upon his Spirits, which obierving, I inquired into the cause: : blushed and hesitatedj — at last he Said, Will Mr. Manley pardon me if I wish for a time to conceal what has made me uneasy; I am under a pressing occasion for three hundred pound, but I intend that the sum your goodness advances monthly, shall from this time be twenty pounds only, instead of fifty, for it is not proper for me to expert such a considerable Sum, without lessening my pocket expenses, ’till Such time as I shall have cleared away the overcharge.”
This
  235
This discolirse osharry’s struck me Sorcibly, but embarrassed him infinitely more; vshich, in order to dispel, pulling out my pocket book, I gave him that Sum in fifty pounds bank, saying, that whatever was his engagement, or
00 ^
I was, though entirely a stranger to it, perfectly Satisfied he stood in no need of an excuse; but that I would insist upon his having for his pocket no less a Sum than he always had; a tear of Sensibility stood in his eye, which wiping away with his hand, he pressed mine to his lips, and instantly retired.
He was more cheerful the following day, and when he returned from his walk I thought I never observed him before So happy; he had, in the interval, made the inquiry after the young man and his mistress, and found So much to approve and admire, that on
their
2s6
their meeting at the appointed time he expressed his satissadlion in very strong terms, and insisted on attending them to his mistress’s sather’s, which they made no difficulty of doing, when it Sortunately happened the old man was at home; but on their way there he called upon the young man’s fire, and desired he would attend them, which, though he was unable to assign any reason for, he nevertheless complied with the request.
When turning himself round to the father of the maiden, he Said, I have learned from this young man, who wishes to wed your daughter, that your principal and indeed only objection, is his inability to Stock a neighbouring little farm: On your part, addressing him sels to the Sather of the young man, I am inclined to believe you have not
a""’
ny
  237
any objection to make to your son’s marriage with this young woman.”
I never entertained any but prudent objections, which arose from the humbleness of my state, nor do I think that my honest neighbour has any if I could do a little more for William than at present I can Ipare, therefore I think the young people must wait still Providence puts it my power to complete their wishes.”
If things are precifoly in this state, ” Harry immediately laid to the father of the girl, “what do you propose to give with your daughter? I attend here as william’s friend.”
The old men were both equally sur prifed at this difcourse, but not doubting from harry’s appearance, and the interest he appeared to have, that he
could
8

23
could Iport with their Seelings, the father of the maiden Said, he would ipare three hundred pounds, and he knew no young man more deserving than his neighbour’s Son; but he had it not in his power to give William as much, and that it would require five hundred pounds to Settle them properly.” '
That shall be my share in this bu siness, let your daughter give her hand to her Sweetheart, and you keep your promise, respecting the lum you stand engaged to give, and this paper will enable William to complete your
’ On Saying this he gave him the whole Sum I had Supplied him with.
views.
The old people’s astonishment was past belief; Sally sunk down in her chair, and William threw" himself at his generous friend’s feet, who instantly
raised
  2j9
raised him up, and feeling himself amply paid for the interest he had taken
in their union, blessings retired.
amidst their general
In a few days the young couple were united, and prepared to stock the little farm, in order to reside on it; and the principal fair for cattle being then held at Norwich, William attended, in order to buy what sheep, oxen, and hones he might have occasion for; my bailiff was also there with Some of the cattle that grazed through the Ipring in my park, and being newly come into my Service, from a different part of the country, they had not the least knowledge of each other; of him he bought five horses out of the number he had carried to the fair: After his return home, he Settled with my farming steward for all the cattle of various kinds that he had sold, and paid into
his
s40
his hands the amount, who, the day following delivered to me a statement of what he had Sold and the produ(5b; when I came to examine the notes, I found amongst others three fifties, which I immediately knew to be part of the lame I had, on his request, given to Harry.
This I own astonished me no little : and though I at once conceived how they had been dilpofed of yet I felt a desire to know who the deserving per son might be : I directly ordered up the man who had attended the fair, and questioned him as to the notes, whether he knew the man whom he had taken them of, or whether he coiild describe his personas they were the only fifty pound notes he had received. Though the young man, he Said, was a stranger, he could describe him Sufficiently to any person who had any
previous
  24!
previous knowledge of him; my steward being present instantly recognised the party, declaring it must be no other than William, old George stubble’s Son, and what, he Said, confirmed him in his opinion was, the young man was married only last Monday morning to Sally Springfield, whose father occupies your honor’s farm called the Globe, and had applied this very morning to him to request your honour would permit him to occupy the little cottage, where honest old Woodley had resided lb many years before his death; I instantly conlented that he should : When dismissing the bailiff, I questioned my steward, respedling the character of the young man; and had the satisfa(5lion to learn he bore a very excellent one, that he was considered by all the old men in the village as a pattern for their Sons, was dutiful and affectionate to his father, and relpedlful and obliging to
VOL. r.
M
the
o
42
the very humblest cottager in the ham let; and that Sally, was an exceeding modest well behaved young woman, poffeshng the affection osall her young intimates, without the least tincture of envy; for while they all willingly acknowledged her Superior charms. Such was her modest unaffedled carriage, that they took pride in preferring her each to the other, without the least painsul sensidon attending it; an instance of the happy effects of stiperior charms and deportment, rarely if ever equalled in the high circles of life.
The pleasure I received from this short account can only be equalled by what your generous mind will feel upon the occasion; it has raised him no little in my opinion, indeed So much, that I even excuse his concealing from me
s
what must have pained his sensibility to have difclosed; the publicity of a
3
kindness
  243
kindness destroys in Some degree the effect it would otherwise have; it takes
from the Ipur of incitement, and cancels for ever what would otherwise have
insured our gratitude.
\
With every wish for your health and Safe arrival, I remain, my dear Sir,
V
Y our faithful and affectionate friend.
CHARLES MANLEY.
m2
LETTER
244
LETTER XXXI
REV, MR. SMITH,
TO
CHARLES HARTLEY, ESO.
Great Ormond streeti Bloomjbury,
DEAR SIR,
T
HE letter I had the honour before to write to you, acquainted you with the dissolution of Mrs. Hamilton, the morning aster our arrival at her houle, which has, I make not the least doubt, been received; this will Serve to acquaint you with everything that has since occurred.
The
  245
The Sollowing day, taking the worthy Doctor with me, I called upon Mess. Drummonds, and delivered the letter I had previoufiy taken from the escrutoire of the deceased lady, to one osthe partners, who immediately upon the perusal, retired into an inner ’count ing house, but very quickly returned with her will, (for So the Superscription indicated it to be) and delivered it into my hands: I observed Doctor Granger was pershnally known to that gentleman, which may accoiint for" his • ready compliance with the purport of

the letter I gave him, myself being So entirely a stranger. Upon this we re turned to Great orrnond street, when
a ^ • a. • .... ^ ^ ■« >
the Doctor prepared (first paying Mrs.
• ' »
Smith a visit) to stake his leave; this, I Said, I could only conditionally comply with, that as his engagements were of a nature not to be dilpensed with, his hour should be agreeable to us;
M 3 but

246
but I must beg as a particular favour, he would
give
me his company; indeed, I Said, I could by no means excuse his coming, his presence being absolutely necessary; as I proposed aster dinner to break the Seal of the will; and should earnestly request of him to read it, that if there should be any particular directions relpedling the diiposal of the body, immediate orders should be given to carry them into effect; he acceded to the propriety of my proposal, and naming four o’clock retired.
Mrs. Smith gave to the housekeeper the necessary orders for dinner, diredling it to be ready by half past four o’clock, in order to allow for any unexpected delay Dr. Granger might meet with : The time came Somewhat earlier than the Doctor appeared, he
apologised
  1247
apologised to Mrs. Smith for being Some twenty minutes after his appointment, observing, proseshonal gentlemen very rarely could keep their engagements So exactly as they were desirous of doing j we now sat down and made (the perturbations of our Ipirits considered) a tolerable cheerful meal.
After the cloth was removed, and my daughters had each drank half a glass of wine, a quantity they rarely exceeded, they expressed a wish to retire, which their mother and myself were the more willing to comply with
any
fresh
not desiring to occasion distrels to their feeling minds, which had before Suffered no little, since they had left the more tranquil Scenes which usually Surrounded them at the parson age: Pouring myself out a glass ofi excellent old Port, I passed the bottle to the Doctor, desiring he would be so
M 4
obliging
44§
< ♦ ►
V V

obliging as to fill Mrs. smith’s glass, which, aster Some little persuasion she permitted him to do, but not still aster he had remarked, that wine, moderately taken, w’as a general restorative.
that nature frequently required its assistance, and that her own particular Situation at that time made it absolutely necessary she should not deny herscls the entire use of it: She felt the just nels of his observation, and to convince him she did, giving me an affectionate stnile, drank it immediately off to his health; he felt the full force of the compliment paid to his advice, made a relpeftful inclination with his head, and wishing Mrs. Smith and myfelfall possible happiness, prepared to break the Seal of Mrs. hamilton’s will, which having done, he read as follows.
THE

24q
THE WILL.
In the Name of God, Amen.
Whereas I, Mary Hamilton, psgreat Ormond street, Bloomshury, in the City of Westminster, widow, Sound in mind, though low in strength, hereby revoking all other will or wills, make.

constitute, and appoint this iny last will and testament, in name and manner following, that is to Say
Imprimis, I recommend‘most humbly, through the mediation of his only Son, our blessed Lord and Saviour, my Spirit to the protection of that great ineffable Being, whose breath, vivifyr ing nature, gave it its existence, in the full confidence and belief that however
Ms
many
250
many and great its imperseftions may be, they are comparatively trifling in the sight of his infinite wisdom and mercy : Secondly, I constitute and appoint the Rev. Boyle Smith, husband
y
4
osmy dear Sister, Lucy Smith, formerly Critchlowe, my Sole Executor: third ly, I give and bequeath to him in trust, for the use and purposes herein mentioned, all my real or personal estate or estates, cash, bonds, notes, bills, stock, lands, houses, tenements, where and whatsoever, in manner following, and the rents, interests, and issues, arising therefrom, with the house I now live in, together with my carriage and horses;
I also direct that Mr. William West,
^ •
my worthy and relpedable neighbour, perform and execute my funeral, in the manner following; that my body after being placed in a cedar coffin, be in closed in one of lead, and deposited in the family vault of my late dear husband

  25 1
band, George Hamilton, esq. in the Parish osst. Mary Islington; that the hearse be drawn by Sour horses only, that the Minister of st.george’sblooms bury, be required to attend the body to the ground, together with the Rev. gentleman who may officiate at Islington for the time being, and that my worthy friend Dr. Granger be also requested to attend; that the mourners go to the ground in manner following, in four coaches drawn each by four horses; that in the first coach my brother-in-law Mr. Smith and hii, wise, my dear Sister, be requested to follow in the Second their two amiable daughters, my nieces; in the third the Rev, gentlemen before mentioned and Dr. Granger; and in the last my housekeeper and my own maid; my own carriage following behind, my coach man driving the same, my footman in his proper station.
m6
That
2^2
That at and aster the discharge and payment of my Suneral expense s'y and all just debts and demands whatsoevtsr, I give and bequeath to my dear Sister, Lucy Smith, Sormerly Critchlowe, but now the wife of the Said Rev. Boyle Smith, the Sum of twenty thousand pounds for her Sole use and behoos; notwithstanding her present or any future coverture, as a token of my Sincere love and affection, let it, my dear Sister, expiate and operate as an atonement of mv once cruel conduct and behaviour
- next give and bequeath to my dear Mece, Lucy Smith, daughter of the aforesaid Boyle and Lucy Smith, ten thousand pounds, to be placed out in the fund or funds in her name, and the interest arising therefrom to be received half yearly, and funded in the same manner as the principal, and appropriated
  253
propriated from time to time for her
/
Sole use and benefit, until she arrives at the age of twenty-one years, or days of marriage, which ever shall first happen. I also give and bequeath to my dear niece, Mary Smith, daughter of the Said afore named Boyle and Lucy Smith, a like Sum of ten thousand pounds, to be placed out in the fund or funds in her name, and the interest arising therefrom to be received and placed out in the manner before directed, for her Sole and foparate ufo and benefit, until she arrives at the age of twenty-one years, or days of marriage,
•1
which ever shall first happen.
To my kind and worthy friend. Dr. Granger, I give and bequeath the funa of one thousand pounds, as a small token of my esteem and respecl. To the Ministers of Bioomshury and Islington, each respectively the shm of
twenty
254
twenty pounds. To my housekeeper Mrs. Jane Trusty, I give and bequeath the Sum of three hundred pounds, together with mourning, and a, ring of one guinea value. To my own maid, Hannah Jennings, I give and bequeath a like Sum of three hundred pounds, together with mourning and a ring of one guinea value. To my coachman, Thomas speed, and my footman, oba diah Thrifty, I give and bequeath to each, the Sum of two hundred pounds, together with mourning, and a ring of one guinea value. And to my remaining servant or servants, if any I shall have at the time of my decease, I give to. each and singly of them fifty pounds, together with mourning, and a ring of one guinea value.
And I do farther direct, will, and desire my Executor to place out, within three months, to be computed from
the

the day of my death, the Said Several
Sum and Sums besore given and bequeathed, in Such Sund or funds, or other Government Security or Securities, as may appear most eligible, in
the name and names before respectively mentioned and fet forth, and to pay, or cause to be paid, the Said several and Ipecific Sum and Sums of money given and bequeathed to my several Servants and domestics, in the course of six months, to be computed as before computed.
Then, and in that cafe, I give and bequeath all the residue of my estate and estates, whatsoever and v/hereso evcr, real or personal, together with all bonds, bills, notes, securities, interest or interests, arising in or out of the same, to the laid Rev. Boyle Smith, to and for his own Ible and separate use and benefit.
In
TH
In witness whereof I ha, ve the day and year below mentioned, Set my band and Seal to this my last will and testament, in the presence of two witnesses and in the presence of each other.
MARY HAMILTON.
witness
9
HENRY CLARK. JOHN SIMMS.
1 March, 1794.
When Doctor Granger had finished
reading the will, he immediately filled
■
Mrs. smith’s glass, and very kindly entreated her to drink the whole, or at least the greatest part; she drank rather more than half and instantly retired to give her feelings vent, and I assure you, my dear Sir, neither Doctor Granger
^ s,
nor myself were less affected ait the
affection
  257
affection my sister-in-law had shown to Mrs. Smith, mysels, and daughters; than the manner of her doing it. The Doctor Sat with me Some little time, when pleading the urgency of his engagements, he hook his leave, promising to call upon us while we continued in town, as Srequently as he conveniently could, we drank tea quickly after, and I exerted all my little influence to balm Mrs. smith’s mind, and my dear girls were also much affecsted, though they were not present, their mother I have since learned, had given them the particular heads of the will; the parts where they were So kindly remembered by their mother’s Sister, notwithstanding her neg
gledt formerly of them, had moved them greatly; all her former cruelty vanished instantly, and nothing remained upon their young and feeling
hearts
V
258
hearts but a lense of her kindness and affection.
After tea I rang for the footman, and directed him to call upon Mr. West the Undertaker, and send him immediately to me, he did So, and shortly after a very decent person about forty years of age, made his appearance; I told him I presumed he knew of the loss he had sustained in his worthy and relpedable neighbour, to which he bowed his assent; adding, that he should assuredly have waited upon her family, but learning we had arrived only one day, and had, from what he heard, come a great distance, he thought he could not, with any propriety, venture: to call before the following morning; and that Such was his intention if he had not been favoured with my commands this evening; I then gave him the nectary and proper orders, and
told
  259
4
told him the day and time I would Settle with him hereafter: making me a relpectful bow, he took his leave.
Proper orders were immediately given for our own and family’s mourning, all of which were complete and ready before the day appointed for her interment; Mr. West had given proper notice to the Ministers of the several parishes, who, together with Doctor Granger, myself, Mrs. Smith and daughters, and servants, attended the body of their kind lady to the family vault of Mr. Hamilton, on the eighth day from her decease, at an early hour in the afternoon; the service being performed, the gentlemen returned in the lame manner to Ormond Street, when after refreshing with a glass of wine and cake, I put into the hands of each of the Ministers the sum bequeath..
..
26o
ed them; they expressed their, Satisfaction and took their leave.
Doctor Granger very kindly favoured us with his company to Supper, and staid with us still past eleven o’clock, when he took a polite and friendly leave of Mrs. Smith, my daughters, and myself, promising to call in upon us as often as he conveniently could; I thanked him very kindly for his friendly attention, and pressed him not to fail to favour us with his company as frequently as he could find opportunities So to do.
f.
'I now gave the keys of all Mrs. hamilton’s drawers to Mrs. Smith, dess ring her to fort in a proper manner everything she should find, that she should think proper to re Serve, but that whatever papers might fall inter her hands, no ways necessary for her
- to
  261
to preserve, to commit to the flames, the more especially is they related in the least to the private concerns osher Sister, adding, that I knew she would forgive me for thinking it even necessary to make these remarks, convinced as I had long been of the goodness of
9
her heart, and the excellence of her
She dropped me a courtesy, for the compliment, and retired to execute my wish, while I went to the desk of our deceased friend, in order to acquaint my ever worthy and respectable friend, Mr. Hartley, how my time had been engaged Since I did myself the pleashre of writing to him before.
understandincr:
O
Mrs. Smith and our daughters join me in very relpectful compliments and regard to your kind and good lady and Self, and miss Hartley. I am, dear Sir,
your
obliged
and obedient humble
Servant,
BOYLE SMITH.
V
^02 THE   merchi^ NT.
MR. SMITH IN CONTINUATION.
Since I concluded my letter to my respectable friend, having finished my tea, and chatted hals an hour with Mrs. Smith and my girls, I took up the evening paper, which I have constantly taken in Since my arrival in town, as a relaxation for myselfand an amusement for Mrs. Smith when not otherwise engaged; aster I have perused all the Soreign news, which at this time is
o '
more than usually interesting to every person of Seeling and reflection, 1 run my eye over our domestic news, as I con fid er it Sull as proper to pay Some little regard to what pastes as it were at one’s own door, as to be So very So
Sicitous
\
  263
iicitous about our neighbours, who live on the other fide that little gulf that makes all our Security; we have every reason at this critical period to exult in our happy Situation, happy and most favoured ofisses, at once the Seat of liberty and independence; here every man, however low, however humble his lot, is equally protected in his life and property, with the proudest Peer that basses in the Sunshine of court favour; the wisdom of our legissature hath placed a firm and fixed barrier in the independence of our Judges, awed by no Minister, controuied by no power; Sole arbiters of justice, they administer impartially to all their individual claims.
But to return to my intended purpose, having Sufficiently tired myself with perusing what was very little interesting, I do qccasionassy, as a relief
from
264
from more Serious Subjects, take a short glance at the different advertisements that are So numeroussy offered to the public; when, at one corner, near the bottom, a name struck my eye that I had Some Saint recollection of, and though I was in the action of laying down the paper, my curiosity induced me to peruse it, which having done more than once, I was convinced the person So anxiousty inquired aster could be no other than your faithsul Mr. James; the pleasure this idea gave me was So affecting, that my emotion was noticed not only by Mrs. Smith, but my daughters, and I then read aloud to them as Sollows.
“IS James Scot, Son osjames and Mary, formerly of Bridgnorth, in the County of Salop, but Since of Much
7
Wenfock, in the same County, be living, and will apply personally, or in
cafe
  257
case of his death, his heir or heirs at law, at the chambers of sampson Heartful, esq. in lincoln’s inn, lin coln’s inn fields, he or they So applying to bring with them proper and' shfficient vouchers, to identify that they are the individual persons they represent themselves to be, he or they So applying, shall be put into the immediate possession of the estate and estates of their late grandfather, Jonathan Scot, esq. late ofpetten Lodge, in the County aforesaid, deceased j the Said James Scot formerly lived as butler or steward in the family of Charles
-- -- -- Parkin the
wilson, esq. of -- --
County of Lincoln.”
r
As there can remain not the least doubt but that your Mr. James is, from the entire concurrence of circumstances, the person inquired after, I could not deny myself the pleasure
VOL. I,
N
of
26o
of being the first person to acquaint my dear friend with this piece of intelligence, interested as you are on all occasions in the happiness of others, I participate with your Seeling liberal mind on the Satisfaction this cannot Sail to afford you, as his particular merits have So eminently recommended him to your esteem and regard, I beg I may See him .when he comes to town, as I shall be very glad to render him every Service in my power j my detaining for one post the letter I write you at noon will want no excuse on this occasion I am convinced. I remain, as besore, dear Sir,
Yours, c.
BOYLE SMITH.
ft
END OF VOL, I.
JUST PUBLISHED,
PRINTED AT THE MINERVA PRES.
THE
DUKE OF CLARENCE,
AN HISTORICAL novely
(Founded on a particular e^ent in the Hijiory of England)
Bv E. M. F.
In 4- Volumes, lamo.
Price i%s.fe^ed^
OPINION OF THE REVIEW,
This Novel exhibits a good picture of ancient times and manners, and in not a Sew instances abounds with pathetic and interesting events 5 the language is easy and elegant 5 the story is too complicated for us to give an account
of it, as it would take up more Space than is allotted
to productions of this kind 5 but we recommend it as well calculated to amuse a leisure hour, without either endangering the morals, or offending the eye of the reader.
ENGLISH REVIEW,
March y 1795.
THE
CASTLE OF O LEAD A,
A ROMAN CE,
In Two Volumes, izmo.
Price 6s./eaved.
T HE
VOLUNTARY EXILE, BT MRS. PARSONS,
lo Five Volumes, izmo. Price is. fenxied.
SUSANNA;
OR, TRAITS OF A MODERN MISS.
In Four Volumes izmo. Price izs. sewed.
COUNT roderic’s CASTLE,
In Two Volumes izmo.
«
Price 6s. sewed

^
A
\.
\ ■
V
- — '»-
•» ■
jpv, ■ A -- --
-. t

■r’. v/j.
. v' a' t*:
Ai':
• •- -.- Ar: t..
'-.. ^ A.'
.' >.: - •
U
\:
-■..- • -- :, ■ 4^'
I .: •


vi

ir


ri
■*
■/; •
- rss. - r -•*
-- *’*'
l3^5a >
isr\tr..
s: - V
V - C
■KN
Ltv: '*v«.v


II



Ni «53v
• .'j.. •
■** i' - <• '

« *■ _. - •
''■'Z^~L^ •
.7 - V “.*
V ^>.* ' • •
■' Ass'
SINGER MENDENHALL. COLLB
. 4. 3 76.7 ?S JL.
A
\
k
i

?? ft O ^ sa ■>'
0^
■ V .f

-■- t ■'•* * ' •
- •■ ■ S‘ ' : • '!S” • ■• - CI. •
• *'■' •. *' .■■
’ V' ' /
•■'* *‘- - ' -• - ’i* <*- j4 C ' t .• f ij
, '...
• ' '* i fc
1- i— — : -








*i
d<r.l

rt: :
V'
'--

.. .W;;
£-; ■
■'fi






’n ■ •‘ s
. I: :


'ri. •.
XI
1 “•»




VI

.■
. ny. -.
- V - •., r - ' •

ifes: 5 : ctev y
’•*> r"

^ > ■

y*i
''■ -.. i
.'.1 j.
■' y.


V

■ %£

V
‘ I jt;

l.v
.' ‘. I -
:. VT

• .-.





'^1
? '■IN
IS'^ vv'c
?* 'T;.,
».,.

. * V
1 »■; ■; ■ •■ n,
,. ' ■ t
‘;. ♦
'. - c?! ••?!


.,
■• ‘ .Ji



l.'h.t

:; V


ls^l
ridi
hit?;;

.. .N. L' r CV
V • •• ^,

* Ta

•, .*
. -. • ^: -
: ir
A' ^

till' ‘L ». ■'
A ‘ -• r.
rey
I ■
■ ^


; V

■kt
tya 1


t*4l'


-. .r

■ I -,
N ■ ■■-■■ A, ^
- M ■• — -.
i






^: r:
lr=a='='d
io..
^

■OUS'^


•rj^to'.'v'





y ■" y I; ' “■ Tr'/sr": '‘v *"....................

'# t

►-^. • J -
j rf '-


«■-
i


P '- :.?
,


. ^
. ^ \%-


S \


«. ^.
y «




■V*
JR W.






t:
i"’*!
fm.


I’T. •




m.





1;

‘><e








: t

trs
d
Ui

AS':

•>


^v






f'''.



: <; il




■r(: c



Jm *-
>


Vs:
'4- i

o V


‘".r.
vv.^:
'Sjv, -
>4*
Vk




**jy!, V SC
r '>■■




i
%
.... * I V '-^ 'V.. •... -
: ^_ .i C
; V •>: >;

; K


F.*^'^’ ■» I ’S"; V ■-■■..■.■ cyk'' y 4i ris ^ ^ ■' ■ «p^v, "■■■■: : - i
: : ■
t. y,, -

! /^■> oi^r Vt > K -. ■/ ' ■' ‘
C.VA F j
\ ' • '. -'?■•'.■.■■*
i: : V V .: : '.,; HE
M : >^:
.>4



.*
► -■.; .v’* • v.v v' / '
^•^: ^: y^r^r.aa ri .riadv~ ^a ^ ' .A.
'FDA: asvrr/a^: ii' '
/.


V JT
<4^
'■* •,. " 7 .' • N.

.. C
T


4v:

!±,

ti
v,

■v rr »


isfc’
, -, .*^vjm.
V«L
Al

l.r^ hi':.
^’1
■.
sc y^c:
^■f


m

c
>?■

^ ^ i; F viftirt



'fv - F: -- Jl
'abv

■: e htj
^ fv» >" s. -•. ^' ■ > i -?

; .v.
v^.vlv x W.
rtr,
, >






ix! V



H:.




U.J

f


; r;
3^


•.?sj





r •

■ K ■ '
^.. -^- fi
■ ^-^'^
t. s




%.
• '''', ■ -.^' .av<'x...l 1-. l .-■
■ ^ r' >', ^ ^ S. '' '"i"

TV"
fc,
, ___________
• 1 i M .•|'% V .■^mj' - ' '. I >.. .' J
■: l


L; il'.'; ^'.'; ■ ■■■ -.'- ■ '■r‘ 7.dska
'i: i.
••‘S

w _____

'ir -
CITY T^
vxxl'i

tt


m





^V.L,., 4 „
•-•>.•- ...













m




.* V


ft -* .-^
. * <



m

\
u
e^
fe'
■«.
r
i



AR

Vry

AC
fs J: •: *•,.. *, ^s’’ -- ' ■ -'■ .••

N.
- V
y

• • ' ■ r, >-
•w' >



... <tr>^


*
i
* ' •*.. i h X '
'': V: : ' '

.-^;

♦ ^
• -

•w 4%
r
*

, ^ t

j5!'0
9.
VI

: A. '''’^><3 ' “-• ■
"> ' *
’.ntt rt *. • ■". *

■.«; yzd F "••


.- — >: : >•• • •. -
•’^r' V
•^lsr^
y

i
rtr' ^' •'■«

1^
: : e

V ^

■ 4? ^
- - A
»
. t
- «;




« A
.' V
• der' «■'

j..
Ayr a
V •' ^
*!• ■>' F
V
-
- •- ■’.‘rsa.
risb
r.f'\\ - • o -- .-
V jt

m.
: • V
:

: ■',; 'r .'’.•‘v'rry^
• f' ' ' -

■fi.
THE
ENGLISH MERCHANT: 
OR THE
FATAL EFFECTS
O F
SPECULATION IN. THE FUNDS :
A NOVEL,


• ■*:
'N
BY THOMAS SOJLAS.


IN VOLUMES.
‘ / /
■V..



•s.




VOL, II

LONDON:
PRINTED FOR WILLIAM LANE,

AT THE
^inetba jpref0,
LEADEN HALL street.
M.DCC.XCY.



■ / C c j; VK?< v'.. '..

V. Y'
it.‘k
V
vk '
■ '!>■; S; tr ' •." '-
* CE

'-« - ■
Cri- -- '

■?
«



■•.’ft:
: ■-■ V '



- • NA


.•jit’
> <.
'i

'^ 4: •
/ ■ V
A
TIS


•y
C
s » :

ON

*,,
, /

I ...
-* t ^




-»
.;

'■ I

. A «■

^ V
'r

• ■ )'-..
^ * - '■
<*i •V--' >
( •
’p^'
V. ’ a'
. ^. .V' '
* ■ •
-^ *
•> T
V •

3
•«
t
ti 'piivi: -- trtf. S.'SP • - <
■ ■. r..' ..'. .• .■■■
,.
Nr
^ ■

• .'. 'ya
■ -■ : r •...• ••.
-* r “f -
'. f
«• •■
A Ama
'- <.
•; .: *<.
^?
■' .: f -
* /



1 sa'; '; --

■»

arifriiih

■<’
/•-

.. f
i
. p C

*'. //. •
A 'T


ui r
0 r.
-- ■’ ib, -
'y ~ '
1 r
S;;


t'. %•'.
-
- Ijf N 'S
THE

LETTER I.
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESQ
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
DEAR SIR,
Scarhorough
%
FTER a very pleasant journey I arrived at this ancient town yes terday evening, and from a lively sense of the interest you So kindly take in
A
VOL. ir.
B
every
2

everything that relates to my health, and happiness, embrace this early opportunity to acquaint you with it: Mr. Sommerville had, agreeable to the request you was So obliging to make to that Gentleman, provided me with very pleasant apartments, commanding a most delightsul prospedl of the Sea, and the Surrounding country; and what adds greatly to my satissadlion is, they are but a short distance from those he occupies. I have not yet bathed, but intend doing So tomorrow morning, when, if I experience that benefit resulting from it, and I hope I shall do So, it is my intention to continue bathing every other morning for Some considerable time, provided the weather will permit: In order to gratisy my curiosity, Mr. Sommerville intends Srequenting the rooms more than he has lately done; indeed, my dear Sir, I begin to think love to be a dreadful
disorder.
THE ENCLISH merchant.
3
disorder, from the effect: it has had on this Gentleman, once So cheersul, Ib
t
gay, now all penfiveness and thought;
I must allow he has lost (at least Sora time) a most lovely girl, and that the Sudden manner of her disappearing mush be greatly distreffing to a niind So full of feeling as his must be; from the appearance of the country (if I may be allowed to judge from the
prospedt that everywhere meets the
»
eye) there must be very many pleasant rides on the Surrounding hills j these
*
I shall propose occasionally to visit in our excursions, and, if Mr. Sommerville has Sufficient resolution, I shall like to pay my respedls to the enchanting Spot, when erst the lovely trio met, the re tirerrient of beauty and music: I can, in my imagination, even now enjoy the Scene; he, lover like, all sighs and Soft dejedlioii, whilst I unfettered by the fickle God, fit placid and comb
2 posed,
4

imagined
posed, contemplating the pidluresque beauties of the place; but I must take care there is no contagion in the region of the air that Surrounds me, least I should pay Severely for my curiosity, and catch this vorst of all maladies. So easily imbibed, So difficult to eradicate or cure; and yet, on a farther view of the cafe not quite So difficult to cure, as at first I had it was, if I may be allowed to cont

elude, from the Seeming indifference of So many married couples that are everywhere to be met with. — A Gentleman, of your great experience and observation, may easily acconrvt for this apparent indifference in persons, who, from the nature of their union, can have possibly but one interest, and yet so very often draw dist'e rent ways, as if the road to happiness lay in the extremes and then. — Your daily prints, my good Sir, are almostconstantly
filled
  5
filled with Suits entered into for the purposes of Separation, for dissolving that union the great and wife institu tor intended to cease only with life, as everything his wisdom has appointed was originally intended to increase the bulk of universal happiness; the evils that Seemingly stow from this sacred institution must be the consequence of human weakness and depravity, a weakness inherent in our very nature, and consequently not to be entirely eradicated; but I beg your pardon, that while I am Solicitous of your Sentiments on the Subject, I have presumed to offer mine, Mr. Sommerville en treats me to present his rcspe(5ls; permit me to add mine, and to entreat you will, at all times, believe me to be,
Dear Sir,
Your most obliged,
And obedient humble Servant,
. HENRY VAN HELMONT.
Bj
LETTER
6

LETTER II
MISS LUCY SMITH,
T O
MISS CAROLINE HARTLEY.
M
Great Ormond streetj Bloomjbury.
Y very dear and amiable friend
is, I presume, in a great mea
*
acquainted with all that has occurred to her Lucy, since she left the parsonage; as my papa has wrote to Mr. Hartley twice, and has detailed to that Gentleman the various circumstances as they offered themselves.
My dear mother is much better than she was for Some days aster her arrival in town : My dear aunt’s death following
/
  7
ing So closely as the ensuing morning, immediately on the back of the Satigue she had undergone; for we made all imaginable dispatch to reach the capital, that our desires to See my poor aunt ere she departed might be gratified.
My dear mother received that pleasure, but in a manner So awsul and distressing, that it perse<5uy overcame her. — My poor aunt, had it pleased the Almighty to have Spared her longer, would have been an increase to our general happiness; the dispofition of mind, in which she lived for Some short time previous to her dissolution, Sushciently evince the thorough change in her Sentiments, and that she was studious to do away her former neglect,
(for I cannot bring myself to give it
/ :
a harsher epithet) her every action proves; the dispofition of her fortune.
B 4
which
8

which is much greater, I believe, than my parents expected it was, is kind in the extreme; for while she was determined nothing should do away or destroy my mother’s Suture comforts in life. So far as they depended upon fortune, she paid the highest compliment she could to the affection and worth of my dear father, in leaving to his difpo sal the residue, which I have heard mv father tell my mother from a paper
found in her ’ferutoir, will exceed fifty
*
thousand pounds j nor had my kind aunt forgot her nieces; she has left us both very genteel and Sufficient fortunes, more, infinitely more, unless it increases our duty and resped, if possible, for our dear parents, than w'c merit; the being in Some degree independent, with resped to fortune and future establishment, must prove, to a truly affectionate mind, an incitement
to the further observance of the duty
we
  J
we owe them : I hope and trust I do not only Seel this Sentiment theoreti cally, but truly and stridlly pradlical, as the genuine Sentiments of my heart. So that you may infer, my dear Caroline, that Sommerville, to have any interest with me, must poffess the good opinion of my parents; but why should I mention his name, who perhaps is regardless of mine, and yet, to do him justice, he did not appear to be one of those idle trissers, who feeling no pas fion (whatever they affect to feel) Sport with the delicate feelings of a womaffs heart; that there are men who pradlise thcse little base arts, to gain an ascendency in a female heart, too many unhappy women have to deplore. What mean passion can urge theni to Such depravity I am utterly unable to define; the vice is So singularly atrocious and inhuman, that no language is Sufficient to expiess my abhorrence of it: That
BS
woman
lo
woman, poor helpless woman, who in common lise is a very drudge, a very slave, thrown by Heaven upon their protection, should be thus in Suited, thus neglected, is without cxcuse. What these gay libertines may think of themselves I know not, and as utterly disregard; but that they cannot be more justly hated by our Sex, than they are despised by the Sensible and worthy part of their own, is my firm hope and belies.
Pardon, my dear miss Hartley, this gravity in your friend; my Seelings were wounded at the ressedion, and I Selt for the dignity, honour, and peace of my Sex, and was desirous of trying to raise a becoming Sentiment in theirs: We run no rish, my dear Caroline, of being neglected in our persons, or in sulted in our understanding, by the
V
man

11
man of Sentiment and sense, conscious of our worth, our claims to their regard, it is their continual study (ifwhat constitutes their greatest pleasure may be called a study) to raise us into Con sequence with others, from the distinguished resped: paid to us by them
%
Do not think, my dear friend, that I am delineating in the character of a Gentleman, and a man of sentiment, any particular individual; but rather that I have endeavoured to define to my lovely friend what, in my very humble opinion, constitutes that first of all characters— — perfect Gentleman.
Polly is Sitting by my fide and laughing, tells me, she will get me prefer’d to the desh, to do the duty of the office at Such times as my papa is engaged, as she really thinks I bet
b6
ter
LI
ter deserve matriculation than many a hum drum who doses in his stall.
My joint love to my dear friend, and respedts to your papa and mamma, concludes me.
My dear Caroline,
Y our affectionate
L SMITH.

LETTER

13
LETTER III
MISS CAROLINE HARTLEY,
T O
MISS LUCY SMITH.
MY AMIABLE FRIEND, elm~houje.
WAS agreeably surprised at the receipt of my dear lucy’s letter; for though it was of all things what I most anxioufiy desired, I was not without my apprehension for the health of my amiable friend, convinced as I am of the sensibility of her feeling mind, and sensible of what she must have Suffered in the Scene So lately present to her view, I Seel exquisitely
for
14

for your amiable mother, who, to the affection of a lister, unites all that sost ness of dispofition So winning and engaging in the Semale character;; oh! my Lucy, what must have been the Seelings of your poor aunt when your mamma moved back the curtain?
How exquisitely painful, yet grateful, must the light of her have been to poor Mrs. hammilton’s departing Spirits! for though your mamma, my dear Lucy, had no power to utter a single word, in reply to the dying lady’s prayer, yet her arrival So opportunely. So affedingly critical, must have conveyed to the mind of the deceased
would have fell infinitely short of: My amiable Lucy, ever lovely friend, how can I Sufficiently admire and express my Sentiments of your noble nature, who Soaring above the common feelings of your Sex, are ail softness and forgivenels,
the
what language
THE   iclerchant.

the asperities that take Such Sull pos session when stung by the indifference and neglect of those we love, have no place in your mind, are strangers to your gentle bosom; the appropriation of her fortune gives me the highest pleasure imaginable, and most sincerely do I congratulate your worthy parents upon the acquisition. To yoursels and Polly I have little Sarther to remark, Save that, while the memory of the affedlionate aunt will ever live respe<5ted by me for her goodness to her nieces : I cannot help thinking that fortune to my amiable friends will operate like an alloy to purer metals; your native and intrinsic charms, were before Sufficient to gain you the admiration and love of the Sensible part of the male Sex, while the addition of fortune will
■ V
entail upon you the feigned regard of
f
the meanly mercenary. Well, be it So, the lovely Sisters cannot wish to
3
be
16
THE englisrf MERCHANT.
be exempt Srora the general effects of
invariable causes; Superior beauty, like Superior talents, must ever equally
expect (while envy and meanness stalks at large) to be attacked, it is but na tural for Such, who have no hope to
raise to the eminence that attradls their attention, while it incites their despair, to endeavour, by all the little arts fb congenial to their nature, to bring down to the humble level they move in, those whom nature and fortune have exalted So infinitely above them : — I agree with my amiable friend entirely, respedting the addition of fortune to a young worhan, and her proper behaviour resulting from it; yet I cannot help observing the number of our Sex who adl on those principles are comparatively few, to the many who feeling all their independence, are utterly undone from being placed at a too early age, in a manner above the control
and
  ly
and check of those, who ought to hold the reins, and guide the young machine. My amiable friend has So Sufficiently vindicated the female character from the unmanly attempts of the gay and dissipated libertine, that she has left me little to add more than my perfecst coincidence of idea upon the subject, convinced of the fadb, I can only lament the misery it never fails to entail upon the unhappy victim of its choice.
Surely, my dear friend, there must be much depravity in the male world, when what might be naturally expected to claim their resped and protection, induces a contrary conduct. The help less situation woman in general stands in, cannot fail to engage the Support of the truly noble, and truly brave mind, the being So utterly within their power must, to a generous mind, operate very forcibly in their favour, and claim a
larger
i8

larger portion of their tenderncss and
regard. The bare idea that a woman was their mother, one would be hals disposed to believe, would ad as a check upon the desires of the most iinsecling, did not experience evince the contrary. I have only to hope, as I See no immediate remedy for the evil, and the consequent misery it produces, that a proper share of horror and remorse may overtake them in this life, that they may expiate while here, as far as contrition can, the pangs they have occasioned unhappy women; and that they may at last, if Heaven in mercy lengthens out their days, live convinced, that true happiness can only arise from the practice of virtue. I will not pain my lucy’s sensibility So much, as to impute sensatipns that she does not feel, nor for a moment entertain the idea that Sornmerville, or the
most accomplished of his Sex, can have
the
  i9
the least influence upon my friend’s mind, till his Superior merit stands evidently conspicuous.
Pray make my relpedtful compliments to your papa and mamma, and give my kind love to Polly. May she continue to poffess the Same degree of spirit she now does j indeed there is much truth in my young friend’s remark. My Lucy can never make an indifferent figure whenever she may be placed; but rather, on the contrary, grace the most elevated; for what can grace the highest ranks in life So eminently as when, to the
A
most lovely attradlions of the person, the female unites in an eminent degree the beauties of the mind.
I am, dear Lucy,
Ever yours,
C HARTLEY.
LETTER
20 TH
\
LETTER IV
MISS HARTLEY,
T O
MISS EMILY JOHNSON
DEAR EMILY,
Elm hcufe.
PARDON, most sincerely, your Seeming riegledt in not answering my letters with that punduality I did expcd you should, from the pleasure the receipt of your last gave me : I congratulate you, my dear, on the health and Spirits you appear to pof sess; you must be greatly altered for the worse, my dear Emily, if your glass can flatter you much, as I am
Sure,

21
Sure, when I had last the pleasure of meeting with you, nothing but a very faithsul mirror could have resse<5led you with half the charms and graces you appeared to possess— — dear friend must have passed her time in a most agreeable manner while at Lady spencer’s; the Superior beauties of the prosped that meet the eye from every part of the terrace, impress the mind with sensations more than commonly
; but when their Majesties and their lovely daughters grace the gay parterre with their presence, it must afford un coup d. oil not to be exceeded even in the imagination, and (eldom equalled in real life : I join, my amiable Emmy, very Sincerely, in deploring the arbitrary policies of state, and yet 1 believe it is an evil indispensably necessary, the better to provide against evils of a much greater inagnitude, at least to Society;
it
affeoing and agreeable
2

it is a tax inseparable from their exalted station, and however we may admire individually their amiable and truly lovely personages, we must acknowledge the wisdom of our ancestors, and consess, with Mr. Pope, that ■partial evil is univerjal good E but I think it is now high time I acquaint you with all that has passed in the neighbourhood of elm house since my former, the day following that pn which my lovely friends and myself so accidentally met Mr. Sommerville at the cottage, our worthy neighbour, the Reverend Mr. Smith and family, were Summoned to town by an express
which came from Mrs. smith’s
'\
own Sister, a widow Lady of great fortune, and frorn whom she had not heard before for years, some unhappy family difference had Subfisted, and prevented that friendly intercourse from
existing.

23
existing, which is common between Such near relatives.
It required their immediate presence in town, as the Lady was presumed to be in imminent danger. — Her request was immediately complied with j the Doctor, his Lady, and lovely daughters, Set off for town the Sollowing morning, where they arrived just in time to find the unhappy Lady dying
I
Sast; it is now near a month since they left the parsonage; how long they may yet stay I am not able to determine. — By the will of Mrs. smith’s lister 1 find, and very great pleasure it has given me, that almost the entire bulk. of her Sortune goes to Mr. Smith, his Lady, and my two lovely friends; but what has become of Mr. Sommervill since the day they left the country I am a stranger to; indeed I go very Seldom abroad, as my most favourite
walks
I long
imaginable.
24
walks have lost the charms they appeared to have besore, an evident proof my lovely Lucy and Polly gave grace and pleasure to the Scene, since their absence alone makes that dull and insipid that charmed me before, for their return with all the impatience
I have lost more than
9
one half of myself; we have for years been like to Sisters; the Same pleasures and amusements engaged the three, and Seldom, when the weather would permit, were we more than three days apart. • I wish my friends, from the bottom of my heart, all poshble pleasure and enjoyment, and yet I should be very sensibly hurt should anything detain them long from home; by home, my dear Emily, I mean you to understand the parsonage house; for I cannot bear to call the large house just left Mr. Smith in London, home.
It
  2$
It is too relative an epithet, for any place that shall deprive me of the Society of my lovely friends, whom you write next. My dear Emily, Send me a large packet of news; indeed. Send
me anything but Scandal, and that I believe you equally detest with.
My dear love.
Your affectionate friend.
C HARTLEY.
VOL. II
C
LETTER


l6
LETTER V
LORD GEORGE VILLERS,
T O
SIR GEORGE BINGLBY.
a5ion park,
MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,
NTERESTED as I must naturally
t
be in everything that can in the least affect your happiness, you will admit I must Seduoussy be So in the essential article of marriage; persons of my standing, who may be Said to be
verging Sast upon the confines of that
«
shore, from whoje Bourn no traveller returnsnaturally turn their thoughts
to

27
to the Settling in lise those whose Suture happiness they are most interested in; So I, my dear George, having no child, no heir but yoursels to my titles and estate, have anxiously waited to See where you would fix, where Settle your affections, having no reason to believe your affeccions the least engaged, I own I have listened to proposals made by the Earl of Gramont in Savour of his only daughter, Lady Amelia Gramont: Her Ladyship Spent a Sew days at my Icat in the course of last winter, when you Savoured me with your company for the holidays; that your exterior.
Bingley, should not disgust her Ladyship is no more than natural; as, to an elegant person you have added those agreeable qualities that win upon a Semale mind; the expectation which the Earl may naturally have of your ultimately arriving to my honours and
C 2 estates,
/
a8

estates, in addition to the independent fortune you at present enjoy, may have influenced his Lordship no little in the overtures he has done me the honour to make to me. His Lordship is immensely rich, and Such his affection
for Lady Amelia, that his offers are
#■
princely, and deserve in this age of expense every possible consideration.
I will not flatter you that her Ladyship is dying for you, tho’ I believe you are Superior to \vounding her delicacy; but however that may be, till I know the state of your heart, as well as your inclination to the proposed match, you may Suggest what you please, but no discovery will you have from me. I need not tell you what your own observation must have discovered, that to charms the most attradive, her Ladyship has Superadded every accomplishment.

29
plishment, every female grace, that can Sweeten life, that can Soften thosc cares, which even Palaces are not exempt from.
The manner in which I have communicated this Subject to you, must Sufficiently show the interest I have in it. I have been a widower iriany years, arid have not the least intention to marry again; all my desire is to live to See you happily Settled, if you have no previous engagement (and if you have, I shall think your conduct ungenerous in the extreme) Set off immediately for my Seat,, when not to wound Lady amelia’s feelings, who from what I could gather from the Earl, her father, is an entire stranger to his proposals, though it is but natural to conceive they are resolved upon, from a conviction, that though
c3
It
30
it might Surprise and affect her greatly, it will not distress her too much.
In this my Lord has acted with his usual good sense and consideration, for I have no idea of Sacrificing the fine feelings of an elegant woman to gratify the vanity of any coxcomb existing. If a Lady unfortunately feels a penchant that meets not a proper return, their sensibility is Sufficiently wounded, without Sacrificing the finer feelings, the least we can possibly do, not doing all they wish, is to Suffer them to believe the Secret rests in their breasts alone.
You know my wishes, George, and also my opinion; convince me I have not entertained an unbecoming partiality by the openness of your conduct on this occasion; it is your happiness I amdesirous of consulting, not my own,
any
 '
any other than mine Dr. Bingley will result from yours, persedtly convinced of your honouring, and entertaining no doubt of your affection.
I remain yours
S I R,
UNCLE VILLERS.
c4
LETTER
32
LETTER VI
MR. HARTLEY,
TO THE
REVEREND MR. SMITH.

DEAR SIR,
Elm uoufe,
Your Several Savours were regularly received, which gave Mrs. Hartley, my daughter and Self (the affecting detail considered) all the pleasure that could arise from them j the great increase of fortune, while the nobleness of your nature may hold it in little estimation, will nevertheless have its happy consequences, independent
  33
pendent of the good it will enable you to do j the provision the deceased So affedlionately and considerably made for your excellent Lady and lovely daughters, must afford you the greatest Satisfaction, and the very kind manner of dispofing of the residue to you, her only executor and residuary legatee, must affect your feeling nature to a degree, and cannot fail to induce a lively sense of gratitude and respedl for her memory. The complinients paid to Dr. Grainger pleased me greatly : I relpedt him for the humanity of his character, the urbanity of his manners, her domestics have every reason in the world to relpedt the memory of their deceased Lady; she has not only considered their humble Services and stations in a very feeling manner, but with great kindness and consideration also, a certain proof in their favour of their having filled their different fitiia
Cs
tions
34
tions in lisc, very much to her satis sa6lion, and their individual credit. Mrs. Hartley and Caroline very Senfibly raiss Mrs. Smith and her lovely daughters; indeed the latter Seldom leaves home, osten declaring the agreeable walks (her young friends absent) have no longer any charms for her; that she Seels more pleasure in confining herself within doors, to her musxc, books, and writing, and I really believe her correspondence is chiefly with the amiable Lucy and Polly, for whom she entertains ail the affection of a Sister; indeed they have from childhood been inseparable.
When, I refled, my dear Sir, on the various and great changes that attend us through this lise, Srequently So Sudden and unexpected that no human prudence can guard against,. I own I am Soul times induced to believe,
there
  ^5
there must Somewhere exist a Power that counteradls the first principles and general laws of nature. We See daily that men of the brightest talents, however they may unremittingly persevere, shall fail to accomplish their desired purpose, while those of humbler abilities and capacities, whatever they may undertake, wherever fate or fortune may place them, shall, without any great exertion of their powers. Succeed beyond all expedlation. The Great disposerof events, whose wisdom pervades through all beings, alone can reconcile these differences; to his di ffn/ations we ought, however repugnant to. our ideas, however affecting to our feelings, yield the most humble and most i^nplidt obedience, we See but a. Small part of the great whole, and consequently our conceptions and conclusions must be very imperfect; our abilities, when extended to the ut
C 6
most
36
most stretch of human powers, arc finite, and consequently utterly unable to Sathom the designs of the Deity, who in one instantaneous view comprehends all worlds, and the various Systems that Support and conne(5l them, 1 preffime you will continue the establishment of your house in Ormond street as a winter residence, as a change for your Lady and daughter; the amiisements of the town, to which they are entirely strangers, will have the aid of novelty to recommend them, and at their age (and their independent situation considered) it may be no ways improper to indulge a little in the gaities of the capital; though I believe very few young Ladies have a greater taste for retirement, a few of the gay Scenes of
I
London will give them a higher relish for them, on their return to the country.. My faithful James has written to a friend in town, and requested him to
make
  37
%
make Some previous inquiry at the solicitor’s chambers, respedling the Very extraordinary advertisement which you have communicated, and wait his answer.
Pray give my joint respedfs to Mrs. Smith and daughters, and believe me to be,
My dear Sir,
Your affedhonate friend,
CHARLES MANLEY.
LETTER
38

LETTER VII

SIR GEORGE BINGLEY,
TO
LORD VILLERS.
m/omt sfreely Grohenor square.
MY DEAR AND HONOURED LORD,
HAD the pleasure to receive the
/
letter your Lordship did me the honour to address to me, and embrace the earliest opportunity to acknowledge k, very truly sensble of the affection your Lordship hath ever shown towards me, and equally So of the interest you take in everything that affects my
happiness:

39
happiness: I Ihoiild be exceedingly deficient, both in gratitude and affection, is it Sailed to make a proper impreshon upon my mind, and consequently upon my conduct. The distinguished honour i.ord Grammant has done me in the overture entered into with your Lordship, affects me very deeply; nor am I inscnsible to the personal charms and attradlions of Lady Amelia. The accomplishments of her ladyship’s mind, I, have not the least doubt, correspond with the lovely exterior, and yet, my dear Lord notwithstanding these charms, these accomplishments, I felt for Lady Amelia no other than the great resped her birth and amiable qualities inspired; unmixed with that passion your lord ship would wish to inspire me with.
You, my Lord, who have been happily married to a Lady of equal
rank,
6
40
rank, a Lady of your own choice, must, from the knowledge you have of the passion, be exceedingly Sensible how entirely necessary it is that the affections should be unalterably engaged, to constitute that perfect degree of happiness the union was intended should produce, we may too osten observe, that even Such as have been united from motives of the strongest regard and attachments, are, notwithstanding, frequently miserable for w^nt of perfect parity of Sentiment, it is not the union of persons that can produce that de
V
gree of happiness, that constitutes the pleasure of Such whose minds arc wedded, it is from thence they must draw every Security for their present and future felicity, when the strongest personal attachments are united to a reciprocity of Sentiment and ideas, the highest degree of human happiness may reasonably be expected to stow.
Were
  4!
Were I, my dear Lord, from motives of aggrandisement to Suffer mysels to be prevailed upon to Solicit the honour of Lady amelia’s hand, not induced So to do from excess of regard, I should not only deservedly merit all the evils that must attend an union So entered into, but most justly the hatred and contempt of her Ladyship, for having deprived her of the opportunity of Sorming a connexion more Suited to her affections, more deserving her charms. Men of Small fortune are, I will grant, my Lord, too frequently induced, the easier to acquire independence, to Sacrifice every consideration, to their mean and mercenary views, they have however Something, contemptible as it is, to plead; but what cxcuse can be offered for the man of independent fortune, should he stoop So low, from motives of avarice and ambition, to accept the hand and heart
of
42
of a lovely accomplished woman, him sels indifferent to her charms? Can any additional Sortune or rank compensate, even to himselfi for the Sacrifice? Is it in his power to atone for the misery he entails upon the Lady?
Certainly not: Then most assuredly there cannot be upon earth a more despicable character, and as 1 am convinced there does not breathe a man of strider honour than your Lordship, nor one that despises a little a(5lion more, I think I shall not run the least rilk of your displeasure, if from the motives, before explained, I decline the distinguished honour you was Solicitous of procuring for my dear anti honoured
Lord,
Your affectionate nephew.
GEORGE BINGLEY
  43
LETTER VIII
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ.
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ
DEAR SIR,
Scarborough.
HAD the pleasure to receive the letter you honoured me with, and have now the additional comsort of Mr. Van helmont’s company, which affords me a Singular satissadion, more especially at this juncture, when the company of a friend is doubly valuable He finds much benefit from bathing, and theresore means to continue it for Some time. After our breakfast is
finished
44
finished we almost constantly ride out till noon, dine together alternately at each other’s apartments; for I could not engage him to favour me with his company on any other condition than my returning it regularly; we make no very long meals, nor do we indulge much in the bottle; we, Seldom exceed three or Sour glasses before we take up Some author by mutual consent, or enter into conversation upon Some general topic, which engages us till it is time to have tea; that finished, we generally take a walk to enjoy the sight of the Sea from Some neighbouring hill, and the beautiful appearance of the Sun when finking into the bosom of old ocean.
I have lent my Servant Several times to the parsonage to inquire if the doctor and family were returned, but with the Same ill succcss as at first; nor have
I
/
  45
I been able to get a more Satisfadtory account from the cottage; all is still a mystery that time must develop. If a few days doth not dispel the mist that Surrounds me, I shall be tempted to take the liberty to wait upon Mr. Hartley, as all my endeavours to throw myself in the way of his amiable daughter have proved ineffedtual; for I must own, happy as the arrival of Mr. Helmont hath made me, that I begin to lose all my patience; therefore, my dear Sir, you must not be Surprised if my next should be from London. I agree entirely with you respedting the influence So excellent a mother as Mrs. Smith must have in the conduct and future happiness of her daughters 5 Such an example, ever constantly before them, cannof fail to produce the happiest effects, the want of which you have So pathetically described and lamented. Little as I
am
3
46
am acquainted with what almost daily passes on that great theatre the world, compared with the observations your greater experience and better judgement have enabled you to make, I have the honour to Seel, in Some respedl, the Same sentiments, as it has been invariably my opinion, that parents, who obstinately shut their doors against a repentant child, adls not only diametrically opposite to the rules laid down by the Saviour of mankind, but equally repugnant to wisdom, and the.cause of virtue and humanity; and that the evils which stow, in consequence of their obstinacy, are more peculiarly to be placed to their account; what has an unhappy woman So circumstanced to do? Where can she sty for relief when it is unseelingly denied her, where she had the strongest reason and claim to receive it? I am confident it
tis
not from the bulk of mankind she
must

  47
must expect; either pity or humanity; they are too much engaged in other purluits, to turn the least out of their way to remove the greatest evils of lise, though the expense to them Selves were ever So trifling, and the chance of meeting with a character out of the Sew who Seel another’s woe, ” is So comparatively Small, they have in general little else lest them than shame and despair, • disease and death, the bare
of which chills my very blood, and makes me wretched even to contemplate. Mr. Helmont, intreats me to join his most respedlful compliments, which I do with the greatest pleasure, as, while I gratify him, I confer an additional honour on myself.

I am, dear Sir,
Your most obedient.
And obliged humble Servant,
H. SOMMERVILLE.'
thinking
4s
LETTER IX
MISS EMILY JOHNSON,
T O
MISS HARTLEY.
Gower ^streety Bedford square.
DEAR CAROLINE,
M
y
Y lovely friend’s letter was duly received: I am greatly your debtor for the elegant compliment
you paid me in your lash, agreeable
« \
flattery from the friend one loves ceases to be disgusting; — hojpever conscious we may be of the inseriority of our claim to it, you conclude very
justly.
  49
justly. I did indeed pass my time at Lady spencer’s in a very agreeable manner: I must have been lost to everything that constitutes refined pleasurc not to have experienced it in an eminent degree. You have greatly Surprised me in your relation of what has passed at the parsonage house, Since I was favoured with your former. I participate with your friendly Seeling bosom, my dear friend, in the pleasure you must receive in the addition of fortune to Mr. Smith, his Lady, and lovely daughters 3 may it add as largely to their happiness as it must to their comforts and enjoyments; it will make the evening of life pass over more
comfortably. Poor Mrs. Hamilton
I pity her much, disposed as she was for a perseft reconciliation with her Sister, Mr. Smith and family, distreshng as it must be of course to Mrs. Smith to See her Sister, and instantly to be VOL, II D deprived
50
deprived of her, yet it would have
mind infinitely
affcdted her
Seeling
more, had she reached town too late to have had that satissadion; Sensible, as she must assuredly be, that it afforded an unspeakable pleasure to the deceased. The amiable Lucy and Polly possesses from nature So many attractions, they could the better Ipare the gifts of fortune, their elegant persons and accomplished minds must have rendered them desirable in the extreme; they have only to be Seen to be admired, yet I feel every Sincere pleasure they are provided for in the ample manner they are.
However lovely and accomplished a woman may be, I still think fortune a very necessary appendage, when she comes to Settle in life I had much rather my husband should have a thousand more than he wanted, than
feel

5*
feel mysclf Supported in Splendour and affluence flowing entirely from his fortune; on the other hand, however large the Sum might be that 1 have brought him (pocket expenses out of the question) I should wish to owe all the elegances of life to his liberality and affection. If we are but the Second person in the drama, let us, my dear, ad consistent, let us not pay a greater concern to our pin money, our Settlements, than we do to our immediate happiness; nor when we yield up our persons to their power appear too Solicitous for what is, comparatively Ipeaking, of no value, when placed in competition with our peace of mind. Women have even more reason than the men to use the greatest caution in the choice they make of a partner for life; their happiness is more immediately placed in their power they make on marriage a Surrender of their rights
D 2
and
52
and wills to the opinion of their husbands, and cease to poffess that freedom and liberty they had besore, so
%
that they have everything to dreads should their lord and master prove tyrannical. 1 do not wonder in the least that the absence of your lovely friends should affedb you as it does, in Separable
f.
as you have always been, engaging as they are, I hope they will shortly re join you, and increase the pleasures that attend your retreat; but pray, my dear, what have you done with Mr. Sommerville? Is he wandering along the Meads, lamenting his mistress’s absence, or has he followed her to town, or is he fickle and inconstant? But that can Scarcely be the case for leaving Lucy; where could he six? I know not. Write me Soon, and be
w
lieve me.
My dear Caroline,
Your sincerely affe(5l: ionate,
IMILY JOHNSON,
  is
LETTER X
\
LORD VILLERS,
T O
SIR GEORGE BINGLEY,
MY DEAR SIR GEORGE, -- -- ailon park.
HAD the pleashre to receive your letter, if I may call that a pleasure that disappoints the hopes of having in. my family one of the most lovely and accomplished women in the kingdom s yet, notwithstanding my inclinations to the match, I should hold you utterly •unworthy of her, could you meanly
shlicit that honour without feeling the strongest affection for her person.
D 3 her
54
her charms, during her stay at my Seat,, made no impression, I am convinced a Settled Sormal visit would not effect it i but would rather tend to have a contrary effect j chance, not dessgn, generally takes the lead in these kind of matters; the passion must come to the party, not the party to the passion; theresore, my dear Sir George, So Sar am I from wishing you should Sacrifice your inclinations, that I dcsire nothing. So much as to have them fettled and fixed agreeable to your wishes.
The Lady that shall gain your affection, I am convinced, must to a very lovely person unite every accomplishment that can ornament a Semale mind, to afford you that happiness you are capable of receiving; but thon I am well convinced this perfect degree of happiness can only be ex pedfed to flow stom the unbiassed at
s
tachments

tachments of the mind,, when left to its own election, free from all influence and constraint. The man who marries from any other motive than disinterested affection and regard, most assuredly merits all the painful disagreeable consequences that may ensue; no acquisition of fortune can be put in competition with what he voluntarily Sacrifices, nor any happiness be expected to Spring from an, union So inconsiderately entered into; therefore if Lady Amelia. has not happily made that impression upon your affection, that I could have wished she had, 1 hope it will not be long before Some lovely woman will revenge her cause, and gain an entire ascendency over your heart. You have arrived at an age Sufficiently mature to make a prudent proper choice, and,, as I am convinced, the married state affords the most perfect degree of human happiness, I am ddirous you'
Da
should
56 'fhe
should enter into it while I am living. I should be very happy to make in your favour (should it be wanted) any pecuniary Sacrifice, that either your wishes, or the ambition of her Samily, may confider as necessary, and at the same time may be inconvenient for you to do out of your own fortune: Find you the charmer, and leave the rest to me.
I shall endeavour, with all imaginable delicacy, to reconcile my Lord Gramont to your indifierence to the married state at this, particular juncture, though you entertain none but the highest Sentiment of respedt for his
r t
lovely amiable daughter : His lord ship is not only amazingly fond of Lady Amelia, but possesses no little family pride. This indifference of your’s, George, will Set rather awkwardly upon his stomach; it will re
> %

  ^
choir Some shill to avoid offending his delicacy; the Subject is a very interesting one for a parent, and can hardly fail to woutki his pride; his rank and great fortune considered, and you only a coronet in expedlancy. At the end of the ensuing month, or the beginning, of the following, I intend to come to town for the winter, and shall expedh you will come to grosvenor square as frequently as you can your company always affords me great Satisfaction, and I hope the interest I have always taken in your concerns may entitle me to claim that reshed and attention
I remain, my dear nephew.
Your affectionate uncle;
VILLERS.
D 5
58


LETTER XI

HENRY VAN HELMONT, escn
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ
DEAR SIR,
scarhorouge
Y Sormer letter acquainted you; with my Safe arrival at this ancient Town, and that through Mr.
sommerville’s obliging attention I was fettled entirely to my wishes : Since that time I have constantly bathed, and am greatly benefited from it, which I shall continue to do So long as the feason will permit. Mr. Soma
merviilc

  5^9
merville lest this place for the capital yesterday morning, unable to live any longer So entirely a stranger to what has torn his lovely Lucy from his sight. I am now constantly at the rooms, the public walks, and the neighbouring rides, as Mr. sommer ville, during his stay, very obligingly attended me to all the various public; resorts: I have accompanied him to the purling brook, and once to the pleasant cottage in the w’ood, and a most delightsul rural retreat it most assuredly is! Mr. Harris, the occupier, has less of the clown in his composition than is usual for persons in his humble walk in life to have.
Since the departure of Mr. some mcrville I have made the cottage in my way, where I have strolled abroad for exercise and air, and think him a very honest, plain character: I find
D 6
his
6o

his time is chiefly employed in the
•. t
garden and grounds of Mr. Hartley, his landlord, in whose praise he Seems to dwell with particular satissadlion and Seeming gratitude, which interests me ready; but when Speaking of his amiable daughter, there is no bounds to his commendations
8
CC
Mils Hartley, ” Says he.
CC
Sir.”
to me this morning when I called, “is
not only one of the most lovely young
/
Ladies that you ever Saw, but the Sweetest and most gentle tempered Lady : I am Sure my wise and myself have every reason in the world to praise her for her goodness; for though her papa is a Gentleman of great humanity and Seeling, he lives So retired, that he is a stranger to almost everything that passes out of his own Sa
mily,.
She

6^1
She never calls at.my humble cot, but she leaves with Mrs. Harris sorr^e little matter or other for the children, and constantly inquires into her wants and necessities, and as constantly removes them before she leaves us; indeed, though we wish nothing: on earth So fervently as we do the happiness of miss Caroline, for that,. Sir, is her Christian name,, yet it would be misery for us were she to leave this part of the country. When the weather is shch as to confine her at home (tf it continues any time) she never fails to lend over Mr. James, who has had the pleasure to reside in the family from his youth,, and is looked upon as an humble friend, not as a Servant, to inquire after all our healths, and to leave with my wife what in her goodness she thinks we may have occasion
forc’
In
62
In this manner this honest man entertained me, and I assure you,, my honoured Sir, I am at a lost which most to admire, the excellent disposition of miss Hartley, or the grateful heart of Mr. Harris. You can Scarcely conceive how her amiable character interests me; how happy would it be for the poor and the indigent if her dispofition was more general. Did the gay and the wealthy ressedt, that even a few pounds, prudently dispofed of, might remove from many a deserving feeling mind (who sighs in private) an anxious load of misery, I cannot help thinking but the practice would be more universalfor what happiness can equal that of producing happinest in another? none in my opinion can.
1 hope you continue to enjoy perfect health, not more for the interest I have
in

in wishing So, but as I know no per son who interests himself So much in the happiness of his friends. I have the honour to be.
Dear Sir,
Your most affectionate.
And obliged humble Servant
HENRY VAN HELMONT
LETTER
6'4 'J’HE  ',
LETTER XII
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
T O
HENRY VAN H1LM0NT, ESQ
Hadley grove.
MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND,
T
H E two letters you did me the favour to write me are both received. I was happy to learn your sase arrival, and that you liked the apartments Mr. Sommerville was So kind to provide for you. I am concerned that anything should deprive
you of that gentleman’s company.

though
  6§
though I am by no means Surprised at his quitting Scarborough, in order to find out where Mr, Smith and his Samily reside, particularly as their stay from the parsonage has been much longer than he might at the first ex pe<5l it would be. I think you per sedlly right to continue to bathe, haying experienced Such benefit from the use of it. I observe you are no longer a stranger either at the rooms, or the walks, or rides, that are Srequented by the company who resort to Scarborough, and that you have visited not only the brook, but the cottage. Take care, my dear Harry (for you Seem to tread on Sairy ground) lest the personal charms of miss Hartley may complete what her character has prepared your mind to receive; yet why should I caution you, or endeavour to guard you against the natural effects of beauty, virtue, and Sensibility, like her’s? You
have
66
have kindred
and congenial minds

and I cease to wonder that you admire in that youn Lady Sentiments So per seftly correspondent with your own.
I agree with you entirely, my excellent young friend, that the proper dilpofition of Small Sums have sre quendy the happiest effects,, that the wealthy have it much in their power by a distribution of their abundance, to lessen those evils that no wisdom or power could entirely prevent; but this is more to be wished than expected. The gay Scenes, that Sortune generally throws the possessors into, leave thern little leisure to observe what pastes in the humble stations of life; and indeed if accident or chance throw them Sometimes in the way of knowing it, they have (unless the mind is prepared ta receive the impression) So transitory a glance,, that litdc, if any, benefit re
fulti
  67
slits frorn it; a continued Series of expensive pleasures give them no opportunity to reste<5t, themselves possessing everything, they only know Want by the name.
You Seem, my dear Harry, to con fider love as a very dreadsui malady j it may prove So to the thoughtless and inconsiderate, but the Sensible and worthy know it to constitute their most Sovereign happiness; nor are the too frequent appeals to our laws any proof to the contrary; they may Serve to show the weakness, and even depravity of our natures; but is not,, by any means, conclusive against the general principle of human happiness, any more than a forged note upon the Bank of England can lessen, with the intelligent part of mankind, the intrinsic value of the real one : Great blessings, like large rivers, may have
th(: ir
(^8
 .
their streams a little polluted, while - their original Sources remain not the least affected by the impurities that Bow on the Surface j they are as Specks that Serve to show the imper fedion of human nature, while the purity of their Sources show their great original; it is the imperfedions of Some that constitute, and make the comparative virtue of others; it is the power of doing wrong that constitutes all moral virtue and happiness, therefore, my dear Harry, let us endeavour to reconcile to our minds what appears to militate against our peace, and by our individual conduct endeavour to correct those evils that assail us in this life, persuaded as we ought to be, that even their admission answers great and wise purposes above our comprehensions : You appear to like the situation of uhe cottage, and from the
character that constitutes the prineipal
feature
■  6^ ‘
feature on the Scene, I am halfinclined to think it will prove one of your most Srequented walks; the situation, plea sant in the extreme, but the character of miss Hartley infinitely more engaging and interesting, and highly deserving of it, when beauty condescends to confer favours, the man must have a Savage nature that is not more than usually affected by it.; great and noble actions, while in themselves above all praise, touch the heart in a most Sensible degree, when woman, lovely woman, is the instrument. Nature, Sensible of their peculiar merits,
hath appropriated to their care all the most interesting and endearing Scenes of life, from infancy to age, to their sensibility and feeling is entrusted our health and ease; in illness how necessary they are to our recovery; what do we not owe to their feeling and attention? In few words, my dear Harry, though
Some
\
/
yo
some few 0; ppear to have lost thole amiable qualities that grace and ornament the Semale character, it must be allowed, in common justice only, that the much greater part of the Sex are
I
not only patterns of every virtue that
distinguish human nature from
the
brute, but are eminently Superior to the men in general. I am at all times happy to learn your health, to be favoured with your Sentiments on every Subject that appears interesting to your feelings. With every assurance ofregard I remain.
My dear young friend
Your affedfionate humble Servant,

CHARLES MANLEY


LETTER
  7 I
LETTER
THE REVEREND MR, SMITH,
T O
CHARLES HARTLEY, ESQ
Great ormmd streel
DEAR SIR,
WAS
Mrs
daughters, great pleasure to learn the good state of our respedbable friend's health at elm house. I have been principally engaged in examining the accounts of our deceased friend, and
placing them in a proper train. I have
paid
cies.
Her carriage
7a
paid the vrorthy Dr. Grainger the legacy lest him by Mrs. Hammilton, and to take off all suipense from the minds of her domestics, shall immediately discharge their different legal
have Sent, it being almost a new one, to the coach maker’s, in order to erase her arms to
make room for mine and Mrs. smith’s, and by the time these matters are all finished, I hope and expect, I shall have Settled the deceased’s affairs in Such a manner as to permit my leaving town. The house in Great ormond street is a freehold j for the present I intend to keep it, but whether I shall continue to do So, will rest with Mrs. Smith; is she Seels a desire to revisit in the winter the metropolis, I shall be happy to gratisy her wish, though my mind is even now chiefly employed in thinking upon my cure, and my respedlablc friend and family. The residue of her
estate,
  73
estate, every encumbrance Settled and discharged, is more than fisty thousand pounds; a great acquisition in point of fortune to a man who has maintained his little family contented with an income less than three hundred.
I hope I shall not make an improper use of what her affection gave me; it will never be in my power to discharge the obligations I am under to my first best friend, Mr. Hartley; but if I can be permitted the instrument of increasing his comforts, it will materially increase my own: It will render the enjoyment of what I have more pleasurable to my feelings, if I can any way enlarge the Scale of your felicity, and the happiness of your family. From the account that I think I have heard you mention respedting the overplus, after paying and discharging poor harry’s creditors, there must be a Sum
VOL. II
E
not
74
not inconsiderable, funded by your agent, Mr. Vellum, in your name. Should that be insufficient to the purchase of any estate you may wish to reside on, in preserence to elm house, I entreat you will permit me to Supply the deficiency; instead of receiving I assure you, you will confer an obligation of the most affectionate nature.
I have hitherto been obliged only, that will do me an honour. Pardon me, my dear Sir, if in my dessre to be uscsul I press my wishes too Sreely on you; these points may be better Settled when we meet: Mrs. Smith has mot Seen the inside of a theatre for many years, my daughters only once in the
course of their lives at York; they are
^ ¥
themselves
of being in London at the time
\
they open the houses, and though I believe I shall not attend them, I shall
gratify
naturally desirous of availing
  75
gratify their wishes, particularly if Dr. Grainger should accompany them, which, I think, he has engaged himsels to do Some evening in the course of a few days. His acquaintance with these places of entertainment will be serviceable to them, in pointing out who the performers are, their particular merits, and the estimation they are held in by the public.
Mrs. Smith is much better than she was, has pretty well recovered from the shock she received. She intreats me to join with my respedls to your Lady and Caroline, those of her’s and my daughters, which I beg your permission to do.
I remain, my dear Sir,
With all possible respedb and regard your faithful friend and Servant,
E 2
BOYLE SMITH

76

LETTER XIV
PETER VAN HELMONT, ESQ.
T O
HENRY VAN HELMONT, EST' '

HARRY,
Batavia
HAD the happiness to receive the letter vou wrote me: It afforded
me great
satissadlion to learn your health, and that you pass your time So entirely to your wishes; indeed, I have not the least doubt that you have every rational amusement and enjoyment at the Seat of my very worthy and rc spedable friend, Mr, Manley, though
I
  77
I find you are preparing to quit it for the ancient town of Scarborough, Mr, Manley having advised you to bathe in the Sea; what that Gentleman recommends I think you persedtly right in pursuing; his observation and experience is competent to diredtyour choice upon all occasions; he will for the present very amply Supply my place, both from his experience and regard : Mr. Sommerville having been there sometime previous to your going, will be of advantage to you, and the pleasure you will receive from his
I
company and conversation will reconcile you to the novelty of the Scene, and Supply in a degree, the absence of Mr. Manley. I Sincerely hope bathing will answer your expedlation, and that all the benefit you can wish will result from it. I expect this will be the last letter I shall have occasion to write to you from this part of the world, as
Ess
I
y8
I intend (nothing unsoreseen preventing me) to take my passage for Europe by the next ship that Sails. I have been for Some considerable time endeavouring to bring my concerns into a narrow compass, the better to wind them up at my leaving here.
The many years that I have been i’ettled on this Spot, and the large and various connexions I have in conse quence formed, acquire a very considerable time to bring to one point, in order to their final adjustment, which can only be done while I continue myself fixed here. I know the nature of bufiness, and the character and dis pofition of the persons I have to deal with too well to leave anything unset tfed when I quit my station,
I thank you, my dear Harry, for your Solicitude for my return to Europe,
THE englispi»merchant. 79
rope, and I assure you, your being there has hastened my intentions in that instance not a little. I long to See my Son, to observe his improvements, for Such, I am convinced, you cannot Sail to make, from your natural taste and dispofition, joined to the advantages you have in the company and conversation of Mr. Manley and his friends; to learn the state of his mind, perhaps the state of his heart, for what Spot in all the habitable world can boast more beauty, charms, and good sense, than the happy isse you reside in : And I can assure you, my dear Son, no restraint will be laid upon his affedsions by his Sather: I only wish to direct the passion, not to fix his choice; inclination, and his own sood sense,
\
must do that for him, and then, should Some few bitters fall inevitably to his lot, he will be the better able to Sup
e4
port
80 THE englisfe MERCHANT.
port them, for no state or station in lise, my dear Harry, is at all times exempt from a pang j that Sew, very Sew, may Sail into your cup, is the Sincere prayer of,
Your affectionate Satlier,
P. V BELMONT.
LETTER
THE ENGLISH merchant
8 I
LETTER XV
PETER VAN HELMONT, ESQ.
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
DEAR SIR,
Batavia,
HAD the pleasure to receive Safe the packet you was So obliging to Send me, containing the letter you did me the honour to write me, together with that from my Son, and other documents of account, with which at various times I have troubled you, I am So vastly your debtor, that I am
e5
afraid
82

asraid I have little else than my acknowledgments to make, persuaded as I am that I can never make a Suitable return. The account you have Savoured me with, respedting harry’s generosity to the yoyng couple, afforded me great pleasure, as it was the pure feeling of his mind that induced the action, the lively interest he took in another’s happiness that gave Spring to the impulse, and made him wretched till he made them blessed. I do not wish him to acquire a habit of expense or expensive pleasures, but he never cost me three hundred pounds that save me more satissailion.
From the character the young couple bear, he may have probably laid the foundation of all their future hap piness, a consciousness of which cannot fail to leave an agreeable impression upon his own mind; for what higher
pleasure
  $3
pjeasure can the mind possibly receive, than what arises from the conviction of diffusing happiness? I am the less Surprised at his concealment, as I know his dispofition to conser a kindness is only excelled by the modesty of his
manner
; his sensibility would be wounded, did he for a moment believe, that what he endeavoured to conceal, even from the parties, was no longer a Secret with you, he would blush to think he had not acted more openly to Mr. Manley, though he would have ablest in the Same manner to his Sather,
r am putting all my concerns in, a proper train for my return to Europe, which,, from their multiplicity, have engaged me Sora considerable time back: However, I hope they will be in Such a state of sorwardness as to admit my leaving, this place by the rst ships that Sail, aster the departure

E 6
of
84
of this. The pleasure I shall have in embracing once again my very respec table friend will amply repay me for all the Satigue I may Suffer during the passage; and to find, as I make no doubt I shall, my Son everything I can wish him, will complete my seli city. My constitution has Suffered no little from my long continuance in these unfriendly climates, though I am not without hopes that change of air, and a respite from the Satigue and confinement of public bufiness, may restore me, in a great degree, to my natural flow of health and Ipirits.
I ^xpedt the passage, should it prove fine, will brace and envigour my habit no little, and lay the foundation of my perfect recovery. If a Small, but genteel, house, in the neighbourhood of your’s in town, should fall under your notice, do me the favour to engage it,
and
  85
and let my Son, under your inspedion and advice, give it all proper repairs, and furnish it in the present taste, in a manner Suited to my fortune and future views in life. Your goodness will excuse this additional trouble, as Harry is too great a stranger to undertake this matter without your kind instrudtion. I have the honour to remain.
My dear Sir,
Your affeilionate friend.
P. V HELMONT
LETTER
86

LETTER XVI
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ
T O
HENRY VAN HELMONT, esqi
Wimple streeti Cavendijh squarei
DEAR SIR,
This Serves to acquaint my very.
obliging friend cs my sase arrival in town, on the evening of the third day after my leaving Scarborough. The Sollowing morning I waited on Sir George Bingley, and concerted with him on the most likely means to discover the residence of Mr. Smith
3
and
  87
and his Samily, and, in order to dispel the gloom that hung over my mind, I Spent the day there with him, and accompanied him in the evening to Drury-lane Theatre, to See Mr. sheridan’s Comedy of the School for Scandal: The house was, as it always is, when the manager brings that favourite piece forward, very crowded. We had Seats which had been previoussy engaged in the fide boxes. The first three acts passed over with that degree of applause, that usually attends this performance; after that time the doors are opened, at what the town calls half price, which generally occasions no little inconvenience through all parts of the houle to the audience, who had till then been peaceably Seated. Observing in one of the front boxes a very genteel man, rather advanced in years, remonstrating with two young bucks, who appeared
to
88

to be men of Sashion, but who had most certainly made too free with the bottle, against the impropriety of their advancing any nearer the Sront, as they
greatly incommoded his party, which consisted of three Ladies, but lyithout any effect, for one of them still persisted in Seating himsels between them, and without paying any regard to the distress he occasioned the Ladies, he Sprang over the Seat, and Sat down. This rudeness So alarmed one of the Ladies, that she Screamed and Sainted. This piece of ungentleman like behaviour awakened all my resentment, when hastily leaving my Seat, 1 made my way to the box: But how can I paint the surprise that seized my whole Srame, on my approaching the box, to discover in the Lady that had Sainted my lovely, adorable Lucy. IS my Seelings were Senfibly hurt before
at
f
/•: '
  89
at the rudeness I had been a Spedlator to, my resentment now knew no bounds Springing instantly Sorward, I Seized him by the collar, and without allowing him time to recover from his astonishment, I drew him into the lobby : His friend immediately Sollowed, and by this time Sir George had come round to the Sront boxes: he was very sensible I must have strong reasons for my violent interference; in a whisper I made him acquainted who the party were, when his furprise and resentment were little short of mine. This behaviour of mine naturally occasioned Some warm expressions, which terminated by exchanging addresses j I now entered the box, in order to apologise to the Gentleman for my interference, which I did, and told him I had the honour of being ssightly known to two Ladies who were of his party.”
My
oo
stranger

My lovely Lucy, by the attention of her Sister and the eider Lady, had now recovered hersels, when, turning her head, in order to thank me for my polite attention, she then, for the first time, discovered who the was that had So effedlually intersered. I was apprehensive it might disorder her again, which, to prevent, is possible, I addressed myself to the Gentlemen, vsho very politely made me room for the remainder of the evening. — Before the piece finished I had, the hap piness to discover my lovely charmer was pretty well composed; indeed Sufficiently So to thank me in a very feeling manner for the protection I had afforded her. With the Gentleman exchanged addresses.
Sir George placed himself in the adjoining box, and appeared for the
remainder
  91
remainder of the evening deeply in thought. The play over, for they did not stay the entertainment, they prepared to move, when I begged permission of the Gentlemen to attend the Ladies to their carriage, which was granted with much Seeming pleasure and respedv.
V
I begged my lovely girl to do me the honour of accepting of my arm, as there was no little crowd, which, with a becoming Smile, she, without any hesitation, accepted. The amiable Polly laid hold of her sister’s arm.
We passed on without any molestation. Having come to the carriage, I bowed respedtfuily to all the Ladies : I paid then my respedts to the Gentleman, when the Servant shut the door of the carriage, and drove off. I now returned to Sir George, who, as well
as
92
as mysels, had lost all relish for the after piece; we therefore agreed to return to his house, and went immediately to the carriage for that purpose. All the way back we remained fiient.
When we arrived there we Sat down tosupper, but with very little appetite, as at least on my part, and my respedlable friend, was uncommonly Serious, which observing, I jokingly Said, “I wished
the occurrence of the evening had not
/
affected him more than he might chuse to declare.”
This remark raised him from his reverie, when he instantly replied,
My dear Sommerville, I will own, with all the openness that our friendship demands, I am indeed affected: : am wounded very deeply with one of
the lovely women you protected this
evening,
  93
evening, and all my apprehension, is my attachment may intersere with yolir’s, Sori am yet a stranger to which of those lovely girls you have given your affections; the only difference of your politeness and attention paid to either in preserence, appeared to re Suit from your feeling to what the eldest had Suffered; but whether that young Lady or her Sister claims your attachment, I am as yet unacquainted with.”
My dear Sir George, in order to remove from the breast of my friend a Single pang, the Lady who fainted, and who honoured me with taking my arm, is my lovely Lucy.”
‘‘ I am happy, my dear sommer ville, and thank you for your open declaration; it is her lovely Sister that
has touched my heart; but had she,
unhappily
94-
unhappily for me, been, the mistress of your affections, your prior claim would, whatever it had cost me, compelled me to relincjuish all pretensions, as it is, we may be both happy.^’
This conversation restored us in a manner to ourselves, and we Ipent the rest of the evening in perfect harmony; upon looking at the card that had been given me in exchange for mine by the Gentleman who had behaved So unbecomingly, I Sound his name to be Sir Timothy Lovechace, of Squana hall, in the county of Berks, and in a line below. Cannon Coffee houle, charing cross; putting it up into my pocketbook, I examined the one given me by the Gentleman who had the lovely listers, and their friend under his care, and Sound it to be the card of Dr. Grainger, a character universally
admired,
  95
admired, not more for his great shill than his humanity and Seelings. It gave me great pleasure to find I should have an opportunity to pay my respedts to So deserving a character, aster Spending a more cheersul evening than I at one time expected, I took my leave of Sir George, promising, aster I had waited upon the Doctor in the morning, to drop into his house besore I returned home; and now I have to concert the most eligible manner to gain an interview of my lovely Lucy, previous to my addreshng myself to Mr. Smdth, which, is I cannot do in the course of tomorrow, I shall certainly address a line to that Gentleman.
As I am determined to Suffer no more
(
delays, I have Sufficiently repented of my former false delicacy ever to Sail into the Same mistake again.
I
, 6
I hope you continue to find benefit from the use of bathing, and that you contrive to pass away your time tolerably to your satissadlion.
I am, my dear friend,
Your obedient humble Servant,
H. SOMMERVILLE
LETTER

97
LETTER XVII
MISS LUCY SMITH,
T O
MISS CAROLINE HARTLEY.
Great Ormond streety Bloomjhury.
MY DEAR CAROLINE,
HAD the pleasure to receive my lovely friend’s very obliging letter, and thank her most sincerely for the interest she takes in the happiness of her honoured parents, Polly and herself. The compliment, my caroline’s affection, hath induced her to pay mei will endeavour in future to deserve.
VOL, II
F
The

98
The disposition of my dear aunt’s fortune, respedting my parents, is the circumstance that affects your lucy’s mind the most; Polly and myself, while we entertain a very lively sense of her goodness to us, were both happy before, possessing as we did the affections of our ever honoured papa and mamma,
we never felt a wish to be the least independent of their control j how far our humble qualities may recommend us to the deserving part of the other Sex I will leave to be discovered by themselves; the experience of our parents will guard us from becoming a prey to the mercenary, and to the man of fortune and Sentiment our little fortunes will cease to bd an object.
It was my intention, when I sat down
to write to my amiable miss Hartley,
>
to have finished my letter for the post that leaves town tonight; but being
  99
engaged to go to, the Theatre, I must deser doing it till tomorrow, as the Servant has just given me notice that Dr. Grainger, who is So obliging as to attend us there, is now below. Ostr party consists of my mamma. Dr. Grainger, Polly and Self. Places have been previoussy engaged for us in that part of the house called the front boxes; therefore till morning, my dear Caroline, adieu, adieu.
Well, my dear Caroline, with the morning I resume my pen, to acquaint my amiable friend with everything that has occurred in the course of last night. Dr. Grainger, my mamma, Polly and myself, went to Drury-lane Theatre in the dodlor’s carriage. We had three seats on the lowest row, and one on the Second. The house was exceedingly full of very genteel company; the brilliancy of the chande
F 2 ' liers.
100
liers, the elegant Suporters and paintings on the panels, Sormed a very beautisul Scene to engage the admiration of your young friend’s party and mysels; the numerous band that filled a very Spacious orchestra playing at intervals, gave a relies to the sight, by engaging the ear till the curtain drew up, and then an universai stillnels prevailed through all parts of the house till aster the third al, when the doors all over the house were constantly opening and shutting, which the Doctor gave us to understand was always the
case at that part of the piece, for the admission of Such who had not come in time to See the commencement.
He had just done favouring us with this usual custom of the Theatres, when two genteel dreffed young men were pressing forward greatly to the inconvenience of the company. Dr. Grainger remonstrated to the foremost
of
  loi
of them on the impropriety of their behaviour, declaring there was no room in front, and that farther he must not press to come; that the Ladies occupied no more room than was common to the like number, and that he would not Suffer his party to be incommoded.
This, instead of having the desired effect. Seemed to inflame his Spirits, which I thought at the time were but too elevated: However, he did not give me much leisure to make any farther observations, for, to my great amazement and distress, he placed his hand upon my shoulder, and Sprang instantly down between Polly and me, which had Such an effect that I fainted away. My mother, lister, and indeed all the company, were attentive to recover me, which was Soon effected.
f3
and
102
and what helped to contribute to keep me So, the rude wretch had disappeared, how or why Polly could not tell, being So engaged with me; but Dr. Grainger Said, a very genteel dressed young man, who had just besore entered the box, no Sooner observed what had passed, than Seizing him instantly by the collar, drew him over the Seats into the lobby of the house.
Just as he had finished this remark the stranger entered, and in a manly, respedlsul voice, apologised to Dr. Grainger for his interserence, Saying he had observed, with pain from his Seat, in the fide boxes, the ungentleman like behaviour we had experienced; but that it was not till he entered our box that he discovered the Lady who had been So insulted, he had the
‘honour of being ssightly known to.
This
  IO
This Dr. Grainger related when we arrived at home, for my mind had been too agitated to attend to their discourse, though I heard Sufficient to convince me my protedor had returned to our box; I felt it incumbent upon me to Summon up Sufficient Spirit to thank him in the best manner I could, which, turning mysels round to do with all the grace and easein my power, '.Dh! my dear Caroline, judge my surprise, it was Mr. sommerville’s Self, to whom I was indebted for this piece of gallantry j the rudeness I had just expe riencedscarcely affected me more. So unexpected a meeting, mysels the object of his attention. Scarce left me power to pay him my acknowledgments, which, in a low voice, having done, I drop’d him a coiirtesy, and Sat down.
f4
What
104
What my dear mamma observed I am as yet unacquainted with : I hope I was not greatly consused, or, is I was, that it will be placed to the agitation of Spirit I had just undergone. My dear Polly was little less surprised than mysels: However, keeping my eye steadily fixed on the persormance I had, besore the piece was ended, recovered mysels tolerably well, we then prepared to retire at the request
of
my mamma
Dr. Grainger and
Mr. Sommerville exchanged cards j when the former presenting his arm to my mother, Mr. Sommerville, making me a respedtsul bow, entreated to take me under his protection j there being a very great crowd, I Saw no impropriety in complying with his request : Indeed I thought I Selt he deserved to be obliged, theresore dropping him a slight courtesy, I Suffered him to lead me through the throng.
Polly
  IO
Folly taking my arm, we got Safe to the carriage, when making my mother, Dr. Grainger, Polly, and mysels, each a respedlsul bow, he took his leave.
The dodor was employed the whole of our way home in commending the Spirit and polite behaviour of the stranger, for he had not yet examined the card he had received. My mother, aster expreshng her concern at the inconvenience the worthy do6tor had Sustained, in consequence of the rude intrusion, expressed hersels in very Savourable terms towards the Gentleman, whose Spirit and address had relieved us from it, declaring, at the dole of her observation, a more genteel polite bred Gentleman she never recollected to have Seen, possessing at once that Spirit that marks the male character, with all the softness of dis pofition that wins and engages ours.
P.s.
Shall
i06
Shall I own to my dear Caroline, that the Sentiments my mamma entertained for Mr. Sommerville affected me no little I received a pleasure to hear that person Spoken well of, who had engaged my esteem, and appeared Solicitous to deserve my regard. We had now reached home, when my papa urged the worthy Doctor in Such strong terms to Savour him with his company to Supper, that he yielded to his request. aster the cloth was removed. Dr. Grainger related, in Sew words, the substance that I have more minutely detailed to my Caroline; my Sather expressed his concern at the inconvenience Dr. Grainger had met with, and the trouble the intrusion had occasioned him, when the latter putting his hand into his waistcoat pocket drew out the card that had been given him by the stranger, and read aloud his address, Henry Sommerville, esq;
3
Stoke
  IO
Stoke - Hall, Northamptonshire, or Wimpole street, Cavendish square.

My Sather was an entire stranger to the name of Sommerville, but Dr. Orainger recolleded persedtly well a family of that name, which was considered as not only one of the oldest, but also one of the first conseqqence and respedt in the county, adding, he did not doubt (looking archly aero Is
the table) but he should Soon be Savoured with a visit from that Gentleman, as he was young enough to feel there was more Spirit in his conduct than generally flowed from mere gallantry,, though he would own there was even ample room for that, the elegant lovely Subjects considered;; blushed, and gently inclined our heads; my father, to give a turn to the conversation, again thanked Dr. Grainger for his care and attention to Mrs. Smith
f6
and
i08
and his girls; we now courtefied, and took our leave for the night. My mamma went with us to our chamber, but made no inquiry, at which I was not a little pleased j for though I would not, upon any account or occasion, have concealed anything that had passed, I should have blushed at my Sormer concealment, innocent as I think it, the more So as I have not entered into any engagement, or ever had a thought of doing So, without the entire approbation of my parents. My dear mamma gave each of us a kiss, and wishing us very affedlionately a good night, returned to the parlour.
t;
Polly first found the use of her tongue by declaring, ‘‘ She the less regretted the incidents of the evening. Since it had afforded an opportunity of learning every particular respeding Mr. Some
merville;
  IO
merville; for to own a truth, my dear Lucy, I have from the first been prejudiced in his Savour, I shall be happy that all the little points and considerations that make So great a part of modern matches, may correspondently answer the views of our parents; and then I think my Lucy will not let poor Sommerville die wasting in de spair.’*
This discourse of polly’s rather took me by surprise; but recovering my sels as Soon as I could, 1 replied. That I was no stranger to the love and kind wishes of my dear Sister, nor to her lively. Sprightly manner of treating any subje<5l (not in itself too Serious for her Sporting with) that I presumed she considered matrimony, from its conducing to happiness, as an object of pieasantry, and was of consequence
at
no
at liberty to divert herself at the expense of Mr. Sommerville, for that she could not trifle So much as to sup pose Seriously that I had my previous penchant for that Gentleman, So per sedlly a stranger till this evening that,
he was.
It would be a weakness, my dear Polly, ” I Said, Speaking with more than my usual gravity and energy, " that would impeach the delicate propriety of the female character"
"dearxucy, ” Polly laughing,, replied, “A truce with your gravity, your propriety, a woman may poffess all possible delicacy, and yet not be in senfible to the agreeable person, Spirit,, and good sense of her lover, theresore do hot Say another word (your prayers excepted) till you have consulted your pillow.”
What,
‘   Ill
“What a mad cap our Polly is, my dear Caroline, to entertain Such strange notions! Pray write me Soon, and believe me to be.
My dear friend
j
Your affectionate
LUCY SMITH
53

LETTER
112
LETTER XVIII

HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESQ.
T O
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESCN
DEAR SIR,
Scarborough.
HAD the pleasure.to receive the ^ letter you did me the Savour ta address to me. I take a very lively interest in everything that can in the least affect your happiness, and conse quentiy learn, with great satissadion, your Sortunate meeting with miss Smith at the Theatre. I hope no bad consequences will flow from your inter
Serence
  IIJ
Serence in the manner you did; but should the worst Sollow, I shall confider you perse<5uy jusdfied in the part you embraced. A female. So insulted, calls, in a very Sorcible manner, upon every manossentiment and Spirit for his prote6hon; but when the Sair distressed is the lovely woman, who hath engaged the entire affection of the heart, even Some degree of violence, may plead excuse with the most moderate. Should Sir George Bingley continue enamoured with the lovely Polly, I shall expect shortly to hear of everything being in train for the happy union of Mr. sem merville and his friend; for I most sincerely hope no previous engagement on the part of these lovely amiable listers, will operate as a bar to your wishes. I continue to bathe every fine morning, and find myself much better in health than I have been ever since my arrival in this country.
Your
I 14
Your absence, my dear Sir, I very lensibly Seel, as I have not Sormed the least acquaintance with any Gentleman or Samily that Srequent the rooms; aster my breakfast I usually ride for two or three hours, return to dinner, and aster tea, which I constantly take ' very early, thc' better to prolong my walk till Sun down, I pay a visit to the Brook, and Sometimes drop in at the cottage.
I like the honest plainness and simplicity that marks the character of Mr. Harris : He entertains the highest re spe6t for the worthy Doctor and his excellent Lady; but when he Speaks of the lovely Lucy and Polly, he is perfectly in raptures; nor is he less attached to his respeclable landlord and lady, and their elegant lovely daughter, these are his own words; for I have never yet, in any of my walks or rides,
had
  II
had the pleasure to encounter her; it is what I very much wish, though I own I can assign no reason for So doing. None of the beautiful females that grace this place with their presence, have as yet occasioned me the least pain j their charms, all lovely as they are, have not reached my heart, though they claim my admiration and respedl; but why do I dwell upon this Subject, who have So much reason to be happy?
My dear father so shortly expected to reach this ifie, myself surrounded

by the kindest and most rcfpedlabh of friends, I have every reason to be content, possessing everything that renders life agreeable and pleasing, without the least apprehension for my prospects in future. I bow with gratitude to the Supreme, that it hath pleased his great goodness to bestow these advantages
upon me, the want of which embitters
#
the

Il
>
the cup of many a more deserving character; be it mine to lessen those evils his wisdom hath permitted to Sail upon So many of my kind, as that alone can render me, in Some degree, worthy of the Superior advantages that I enjoy. May every happiness attend my friend, is the Sincere wish of his
Obedient and obliged.
HENRV VAN HELMONT.
LETTER
  I 17
LETTER XIX
MISS SMITH
T 0
MISS CAROLINE HARTLEY.
Great Ormond streety Bloomjbury
DEAR CAROLINE,
N my last I made you acquainted with everything that happened the evening we went to the Theatre, and the conversation that ensued upon and aster our return home. The next morning we met at the usual hour in the breaksast parlour, which passed over much to my wishes without any
remark
ils
remark upon the incidents of the preceding evening. About eleven o’clock my papa wished my mamma a good morning for the present, Saying, he had
r
an engagement, but should return by three, being our usual dinner hour. Polly and mysels dropped each a cour tesy, and retired to our apartment to dress for the day. About Some hals hour after we had So done, our amiable mother entered the room : aster paying us Some little compliment upon our taste in the dispofition of our curls and ribbons, c. taking hold of my hand very affedlionately Said,
I came here, my dear Lucy, to enter into conversation with my amiable daughter, respedling the Subject that engrossed So much of our thoughts last night, though the rude behaviour of the man, who, in So ungentle manlike a manner, forced his way into the
box

  II
box where we were Seated, deserved the corredlion he met with from every man of Sentiment and Spirit, yet, my dear Lucy, while I subscribe with great pleasure to the manly condu(5t and genteel address of Mr. Sommerville, I am hals inclined to think he had a more interesting motive than met the eye of common observation; there was a visible tenderness and distrels about him that did not escape a parent’s attentive view, when the happi ness of a much loved daughter is the subied.”
This discourse of my dear mother’s affected your poor Lucy, as your good sense and Seeling will, my dear Caroline, naturally Suggest,, in no Small degree, which she observing, continued:
“As it is not my wish to distress my dear daughter, but on the contrary
relieve
120
relieve her mind from everything that may embarrass it, confident as I am, that whatever motive might induce concealment, no indilcretion will attach to her condud, I shall proceed to conclude, that Mr. Sommervilie is not #
the entire stranger to my Lucy, that he is to her mother; the accomplishments he apparently possesses. super added to a person uncommonly striking and engaging, may be allowed without departing from that delicacy (which is the brightest Seature in a Semale cha '
radler) to have no little influence on
«
the heart of a young woman. If the application I feel he meditates to make to your dear father shall be found, what I entertain no doubt that it will, respectable * deserving every attention, it shall be my part to reconcile your honoured father to his being (giving Polly an arch Smile) the latest acquainted
with
  I'll
with what So materially affected the honour and hanpiness oshis Samily.”
Unable to Sustain Such goodness any longer, I lest my Seat (Sori had for Some time been unable to stand) and threw myself at her Seet, and Sunk my head upon her lap; and then I gave vent to my concern for my weakness, in a copious flood of tears. She did not immediately attempt to check the affecting Situation her tenderness had placed me in. So that I was permitted to recover by degrees, which having done, in a tremulous voice., I replied,
“How can I Sufficiently express rtiy thanks to my dear mother, for her great goodness and affection to her Lucy; appearances only, my dear mamma, are against me; true, very true, it is, Mr. Sommerville is not the
VOL. II
G
entire
>122 THE ENGLISH fcjerchant.
entire stranger to your Lucy, that he i to her honoured parent, and yet I
i
have only twice besore met him, and both times as unknown as unsoreseen, and though I believe, even from the little that passed, he was not entirely indifferent to your daughter, havin no other grounds than merely my Suggestion, was I much to blame to
conceal from my dear mother, what as
?
yet was Scarcely known to myself: That neither Mr. Sommerville, nor any other man existing, could or should make me deviate from the duty it was my pride to boast I owed to my ever honoured parents. Let this letter Support my allegation; it is written, my dear Madam, to miss Hartley; Mr, Sommerville is mentioned in it, as are my Sentiments upon the occasion, which cannot Sail being prior to this conversation, and must convince rpy dear
mother
  I 2j
mother how incapable I am to repay with ingratitude the affedlionate ten derness she hath always shown to m ei
now immediately proceeded to deliver my dear mother the letter alluded to, when she kindly raised me (Sori was yet on my knees) and giving me a kiss, returned it without looking
at it.
Place it again in your pocketbook, my dear Lucy; at Some Suture time I may, perhaps, desire to read it; to do So now would call in question what I knew to be Superior to dilguise, or impeachment, my lucy’s veracity; let me, my dear, share in future your confidence with Polly; I have miore than a sister’s interest in my lucy’s happiness; my experience of what pastes in life, if it does not add to my
G 2
dear
\
'j24
dear daughter’s happiness, is not calculated to embitter it. Your dear father, and myself have lived ever too happy to draw the Source of our observations from ourselves; it is the concern we have Srequently felt for Others that has induced our conclusions,; therefore, my dear, our observations are untindured with the Severity usual
i
to age, and consequently more calculated for youthso Saying, giving each of us a kiss, she retired to her room.
Oh! my dear Caroline, how near have I been incurring the dilpleasure of the best of mothers, and yet how little had T to disclose! Mr. sommer ville So entirely a stranger, and the state of his inclinations So little known re speding me. Polly, who Supported
herself through the parts that most
.^iffedled

125
affected me, is, now the conssidl’s past, dissolved in tears; her apprehension for her Lucy Supported her then, it is the resseciion on maternal tenderness that
overcomes her now.
How Seeling kind
and considerate has my dear mother acted, though no stranger yesterday
to what passed in my breast, she affectionately concealed her Sentiments till the morning, least, aster the agitations' I had Suffered, her remarks might affect me too deeply. Generous, tender mother! your Lucy will endeavour to
deserve this
yes, my ever
honoured Madam', 'you shall share with Polly all my confidence. Secrets I have none; now this Single circumstance is difclosed, you shall, as you ought, direct your daughter’s views'and wishes, and steer her little bark Safe into port, Your observations, my
dear mother, are indeed untindlured
Gj
with
3 26 THE ENGLISH. MERCHANT.
with the asperity So commonly attendant on
age.
they are the genuine effusion of a mind well informed,, equally free from prejudice, or weak partiality j they resuk from great experience, corrected by a judgement Seldom equalled, perhaps never excelled.
My Caroline will pardon her lucy’s partiality for So amiable a mother. If I am led to give a preference were it vas an honour to come in competition, the amiable Mrs. Hartley is her Sister in every noble quality and ac q'uirement, and my lovely friend the perfect counterpart of her excellent parent. Gay as is this great city, I begin to pant for the retired Scenes we took Such pleasure to resort to. Our amusements were more rational, or at least I am convinced they were more to my taste than any I have yet experienced
  icy
rienced in this busy Scene. aster what r have related to my lovely. friend, she will not be much surprised if in my next I, should give her a more circumstantial account of Mr. Some merville, his family Situation and pros pedts, as there remains no doubt but that my honoured father will be immediately applied, to upon the Subject.

And here let me inquire into the precise state of my heart and affections.. appeal I never till now had occasion to make, consequently Mr. some merville has nothing at present to apprehend from a rival. The opportunities I have had of observins; much
o
of the male character have been few and transitory; the qualities I am dis posed to prefer Mr. Sommerville Seems to poffess in an eminent degree. —
G 4
Time
fcs
di
lime may show these things in stronger point of view, at present he has Some little claim to my gratitude, and shall be allowed to take credit for the rest.
1 am pcrfeistly well convinced my dear and honoured parents will lay no restraint upon my inclinations, it will constitute their principal happiness to direct the pashon, leaving, were nature left before, the choice to the individual, k must assuredly increase all the joys of life to share them with those we love, and by parity of argument make even the miseries of it more lupporta ble : Surely, if anything can lessen distressed, it must flow from the affection and feeling of those V e most esteem and prefer: If general happiness increase the more benefits are diffused, why may not the evils of life be diminished
  12^
fninished when shared by those we love? IS it should be Said to bring distress and misery on those we love is utterly against the very idea of the passion, I will grant it at once, and let the best casuist of them all make the most of it; this militates not in the least against my argument: There is a great distindion,. a distindfion, my dear Caroline, not without a difference between the bringing an object into distress, or the sharing the evils oslife as they Sail; the one is the wilsul adt of the base and unmanly, the other heroic Sentiment flowing purely from love and affection..
My dear Caroline will pardon her lucy’s gravity, well knowing, however mistaken her ideas or opinions are her intentions and friendship are unalterably just and pure.
^ 5
y >
Polly
130
Polly gives her love. Pray write me Soon, and believe me to be, my dear miss Hartley,
Your affe6honate>
L SMITH,
LETTER
THE ENOLISH'MERCHANT. II
LETTER XX
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, esm,
\
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ES(U
jvimpoleatreety Cavendijh square.
MY PEAR SIR,
SHALL conclude Mr. Van Helmont hath written to you from
4
Scarborough, and that in consequence you are acquainted with everything that has occurred Since my return to town up to. that time. The Sqllowing morning I waited upon Dn Grainger, at
Que
G 6
coin’s
132 THE ENGLISH MERCHAN t.
coln’s inn fields; that Gentleman received me with great politeness: I made him acquainted, without any reserve, with my attachment for the lovely and amiable miss Smith, and also with the particular incidents that brought me to the knowledge of that Lady; of the great disappoihtment I had experienced when my Servant, who had carried to the parsonage house the letter I had done myself the honour to write, returned with the information of the family having gone the preceding day for London; that not being able to learn any Satisfadory account in the neighbourhood of their residence, and being worn out with impatience, I at length followed them to town, when calling upon my very intimate and re spedable friend. Sir George Bingley, at his houle. Mount street, grosvenor square, that Gentleman insisted upon
my
THE estclisii MERC WANT.
my dining with him, which I did with the greatest pleasure to mysels, as a more rcspedlable character in the whole circle of Sashion is not to be found;, the consequence was,, that, in order to dispel the gloom that very visibly af ^ Sedted me, he insisted upon my giving him my company to the play. The Servant was immediately, dispatched to Secure Seats in the fide boxes, but that it was not till aster the third at that I paid any. particular attention to the fashionable and genteel company that filled almost every part of the house, when observing, the rude and unmanly behaviour of a person (apparently a Gentleman) I lest my Seat without even apologising to my friend, unable any. longer to contain my resentment, though it was not till I entered the box that I discovered how greatly I was interested ia the protection of the insulted

134 the eistglish merchant;.
Suited fair. What asterwards passed came immediately under your own observation.
“Your intimacy, my dear Sir, ” I Said, addressing mysels to the worthy Doctor“ “be useful to me upon this interesting occasion;; if I forget not, I think I have had the pleasure of meeting you at the house of my very respedtable friend, Mr. man lay, in Lower Brook street, Cavendish square.”
The Doctor immediately recognised me, when, riling from his chair, he politely welcomed me to his house, inquired very respedlfuliy and kindly after your health, and that of Mr. Van Helmont, as it was that Gentleman he. attended when I happened to be present. I was proceeding to state to that
Gentleman
THE ENGLISH MERCH’ANT. PJ
Gentleman Such particulars respedling myself, Samily and Sortune, when the Servant Suddenly entered, and announced the arrival of Mr, Smith; this of course interrupted our discourse, though I little thought at the moment it was the individual Mr. Smith I So very anxioussy wished to be introduced to; indeed I had not time to revolve this point Sufficiently in my mind before the entrance of the Gentleman put the matter beyond all dispute, from the strong likeness my lovely Lucy bears to her father. After exchanging with Dr. Grainger the usual compliments and inquiries, he made me a polite obeisance, which I returned with all the relpedt I could, when Dr. Grainger taking the lead, observed to Mr. Smith the good fortune his young friend had
i
unexpededly met with that morning,
might compensate for the disappoint
ments
THE ENGLISH' MERCHANT?
ments he had Sormerly experienced; that he presaged the happiest conse quences from So Savourable a commencement, as he was the moment besore himself Some little embarrassed between his friendship and his delicacy. Your entrance, my dear Sir, addreshng him lels to Mr..smith, .has done for mein. one moment more than I should have, been able to have done for myself in. the course of the day. I observed this discourse appeared to shrprise Mrj Smith not a little, which Dr. Grainger Selt it incumbent upon himsels to remove; this he instantly.effedled in the Sollowing manner.:.
“Wehave,, my dear sir, ” continued, the Dodon “our mutual acknowledgments to make to this young Gentleman : I am Sure he has laid a very, lasting obligation upon me, which
I

  IJ7
I have no way So effedluaily to balance as by introducing him to the acquaintance of my respedlable friend, Mr. Smith.’*
He instantly role from his Seat, and took me respedsully by the hand, when turning immediately round to the former Gentleman, Said,
me. Sir, to introduce to your acquaintance Mr. Sommerville, the Gentleman who in So Spirited a manner rescued yesterday evening from farther insult your truly lovely and amiable daughter.’*
Mr
and
with all that good nature that evidently marks his character, made me his acknowledgments for the interest I had taken, for the Service I had rendered Mrs. Smith and her daughter. I
returned
IS' THE ENGLISH MER6HANT.
returned the acknowledgments he ho notired me with, ' by observing,

I should have afled in nearly the same manner upon every Similar occa' fioi)j but that I was interested, if he
would kindly allow me the expression
/
a very particular manner in everything that' affcdted the peace and hap piness of his lovely daughter.”
I then related to that Gentleman the
>
incidents that' first brought me.: to the knowledge of that young Lady, and the disappointment that Succeeded, it, upon finding his family had unex pededly gone for London; that unable • to Support any longer the absence I. deplored, that I followed them to the capital; that dining the following day with my very respedtable friend, Sir George Bingley, that Gentleman en r
my company to the Theatre;
that
  139^
diat what passed there 1 made little doubt but he was acquainted with that my family was, I flattered myself. respedlable, my Sortune ample and independent; that if my pretensions met the approbation of that lady’s parents, aqfi was no ways disagreeable to his amiable daughter, I should esteem it a particular honour and happiness to
be permitted to Solicit from that Lady the distinguiflied honour I aspired to.
Dr. Grainger followed up my remarks, by observing I was (though it had not occurred to him last night) the intimate friend of one of the most independent and respectable characters this kingdom could boast. This kind remark had all its intended effect, for Mr. Smith instantly advanced towards me, and took me very kindly by the hand,.. Say in
«thast’
or
t>y
|.40
"That, ” aster what Dr. Grainger had observed, “he was convinced there could be no impropriety in his paying all the respect to my overtures that those disinterested principles demanded; that he would take one day to consult Mrs. Smith and his daughter upon the Subject, and that,, if I would Savour him with my company (taking from her pocketbook, and delivering to me; a card with his address) and take a cup of chocolate with him the Succeeding forenoon, it would afford him a very^
lively pleasure*’*
This r eagerly engaged to do, when concluding, by his unexpe<5l: ed visit to the Doctor, he might possibly' have Some private business to execute, making each a respedful bow, I took my leave; and now,, ray dear Sir, I hope your friend is in the fair road, to love and happiness. I have wrote, as I before
remarked
  II
remarked, Mr. vanhelmont: I trust she is perfeistly well, though my not hearing from him So early as I expected I should, has given me Some iin easiness, as I am too intimately acquainted with his character, not to be sensible, indifference to his friends con stitutes no part of it: I shall be happy
when the season brings you to town, that I may have the advantage of your Superior judgement, with every wish ibr your health and happiness, I remain.
Dear Sir,
Your very affectionate.
And obedient humble Servant,
H. SOMMERVILLE,
LETTER
142 the
LETTER XXT
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESQ
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
DEAR SIR,
♦S’ carhorough
A
T length I have had the happiness to meet miss Hartley, for a happiness I shall ever esteem it, as I am inclined to think there was some thing peculiarly providential in the circumstances that occasioned it. A Sew mornings back, having mounted my horse, I was induced to yary my ride, theresore leaving the road that led to 2 - the
i, -
HE   i43
the cottage on my right hand, ituffered rny horse to proceed on a gentle canter along a remarkable retired lane, your Servant as usual attending me. Having proceeded shout three miles, the road being uncommonly narrow, and oscon sequence much shaded from the over -- hanging of the trees, which at this part were extremely thick and close. Af sedted no little by the Solemn stillness of the Scene, I drew my horse up into a walk, the better to indulge mysels in the reverie the natural gloom of the place had produced; when Suddenly all my attention was roused at the approach of a horse Seemingly upon a gallop, and at intervals the Seint Screaming of a voice. Convinced I had not a moment to lose, and clapping Spurs to my horse I continued my way, when at a Sudden turn of the f oad I perceived a Lady in a green habit exerting
Y

144
erting hersels to check the sped osher poney, but without effedtj the road still being narrow, I instantly dismounted, and turning my horse’s head the different way. Sprung forward on foot, conceiving I should have a much better chance of assisting her than I should have had if I continued mounted; just as I had arrived within about ten yards of the Lady her galloway stumbled, when exerting all my power and strength, I Sprung to the Spot in time to prevent his lovely burden from receiving any material injury j for as she fell from her Seat I caught her In my arms; but utterly lost to her situation, as she fainted at the instant, I carried her in that state to the fide of the bank j in litde more than two minutes the Servant joined me with the horse I rode, and a fine spirited little poney, being the one its lovely
mistress
  i45
mistress had jusc fallen from; making them all fast to a tree, I ordered him to leap the bank, and see if he could find any clear Spring water. In this he immediately Succeeded, as there run on the other fide of the hedge a Small but very clear stream. He returned with Some in the crown of his hat, with which I gently Sprinkled her lovely face, and raised at the Same time her black beaver, the better to receive the air. This had the desired effed, as I had the happincss to observe she was recovering fash At length she opened a pair of the sweetest blue eyes I had ever Seen j when observing a stranger standing respedlfully at her fide, she gently Sighed, and instantly closed them, when taking off the outer case of my Vv'atch, which w^as gold, I poured Some water into it, and applied it to her lips. She tasted a little, and Seemed revived by
VOL. II
H
itj
146
it; she sighed again gently, and a moment aster Seemed coming to her sels; observing which, I begged her, in a low voice, not to alarm hersels;
N
that I was providentially passing at the instant her horse, unconscious of the value of his lovely charge, had rudely ran off with her; that I had arrived just in time to protect her from farther injury, by receiving her when falling into my arrhs; that I hoped the fright she had Sustained was the only material injury she would Suffer in conse quence of it; and concluded by observing (was that the cafe) I should consider the accident of this morning as the most happy event of my life.
This discourse appeared to relieve her greatly, for in little more than a minute she, in a low, tremulous voice, replied:
€C
The
\
  i47
The obligation I am under to you. Sir, for the Security and protection as sorded me is So great, that my acknowledgments can but weakly convey what I Seel, or the sense I shall ever entertain for them.’*
I now recollect” ” continued, I observed, just besore I Sell, a gen tleman running towards me but my
horse stumbling at that instant I lost
all power to make any Sarther remark;
the little poney, which this morning
ran away with me, I have occasionally
«
for more than two years, and he appeared to be free from every vice; indeed, to do justice to the little creature, I believe it was frightened, about half a mile from hence j I am Sure at least that 1 was, by the violent Swinging too of a gate, on which Some boys were unluckily playing : I now find myself much recovered from my fright.
H 2
and
148
and as I was not expected to make any considerable stay, but just take a short airing and return, and least I shall occasion distress to my parents by doing So, I will try is I have strength to walk.”
Upon this, making her a respedtsul bow, I entreated her to do me the honour to take hold of my arm. With a Sweet blush that empurpled all her lovely Sace, she replied.
N
“You have, though an entire stranger, Sir, obliged me too much, infinitely too much, for me to hesstate a moment upon putting mysels under your protection and care, and indeed I do not think I can immediately proceed without assistance; and it would be prudery to the highest degree to resuse the Sarther ashstance of the Gentleman
  i49
tleman, to wbose Spirit and feeling I am at prescnt So much indebted.”
I now helped the lovely maid to rise, which she did with tolerable ease, complaining only of a slight pain in her left ankle, which she Said she imagined was strained when she fell; the
residence of my papa and mamma, if we pass through the gate where my little horse was first frightened, is no great distance; we shall, by going across three or four long meadows. Save a full
mile in the distance; We accordingly proceeded forwards, and when we came to the gate as proposed, we turned into the meadows, having given the Servant instrudlions how to proceed along the lane to the house. We continued to walk exceedingly slow, for it was very evident this lovely girl’s foot was not a little painful, when at length we came in Sight of a stately avenue of old
H 3 elms,
ISO
elms, and at the Sarther end was Seated an ancient respedable mansion: :

“house at the bottom of this row of elms, is, I presume (Said I) lovely young Lady, your parents ?”
** It is, Sir, ’^ she in the gentlest accents imaginable replied; they will be proud to thank my generous deliverer for the Service he has So essentially rendered to their daughter. Little did my dear papa and mamma think this morning, when they Saw me mount
J
my Iprightly (for So I am accustomed
«
to call my poney) the great danger that awaited their Caroline, little did they think the great risk I had to encounter.

yj
Oh! my dear Sir, if Something from the first sight of this lovely young
Lady had been stuttering around my
heart.
  II
heart, judge what I Sek when she called hersels their Caroline! Scarce able to Support what I heard, and utterly So to make the necessary inquiry, we approached the house, when a Gentleman, who was standing at the parlour window, observing this lovely young Lady walking home attended by a stranger, and recolledfing she rode out but an hour or two before, came hastily to the door to inquire into the cause, and imrtiediately aster him followed a Lady, the great resemblance in their features made all inquiry unnecessary 5 but had that been insufficient, the pain and distress they felt while this lovely Lady passing through the hall towards the parlour related in part what she fully finished when there, would to the commonest observer have proved Sufficiently the great interest they had in her missortune, when this lovely girl had related to her parents every particular
h4
circumstance

152
'«■»
circumstance, and they had recovered a little from their concern, the Gentleman, rising from his Seat approached my chair, observing his intention, I instantly rose to meet him.
ic
My dear young Gentleman, ” he Said, “accept a parent’s thanks for the great Service you have rendered to his daughter, for the happiness you have been the means of continuing to myself and Mrs. Hartley.”
The name of Hartley shot like an arrow through my very heart; but I had not then time to ressedt upon that circumstance before that Lady rose, and coming to V here I stood, throwing her arms round my neck, she Said,
How shall I bless and thank as I ought the Saviour, through God, of my lovely daughter I
Then
>>
  I 53
Then turning to Mr. Hartley, she very emphatically and Seelingly Said, What would have been all the afflictions of this life compared to the loss of our Caroline, v/hose sweetness of temper and affection has Softened every evil that we have as yet experienced! then, next to Heaven, how much do we owe to this Gentleman ?’
'I now, for the first time, had power to Speak to express my sense of their kindness; after making each a very respedlful bow, I Said, that I must have been utterly lost to all the finer feelings of the heart, if I had not exerted my utmost power to render any Lady, So circumssianced as their lovely daughter unhappily was, every possible assistance that humanity and feeling urged me at that time to do my utmost
for the young lady’s Safety; but
it vas not till now that I knew how
h5
much
154  .
much beauty and loveliness I had preserved, as k, was not till now that I knew the lovely stranger was miss Caroline Hartley, whose lovely person, and more lovely dilpofition, I was not utterly unacquainted with.. miss Hartley now retired with her mother,, in order,, as I imagined, to apply Something to her ankle; Mr. Hartley rang the bell, and ordered the Servant to bring wine and cake, vv^hich he immediately did, vvhen fisting out two glasses he presented one to me,., though he very Seldom drank wine besore dinner, he would break through his established rule for once, to have the pleasure of drinking my health, and again to thank me for the Service rendered to his, daughter: Saying So, he took his glass, and begged the Savour of my name, which I instantly imparted to. him,; just at this time my Servant
had
observing.
THE ENGLISH'MERCHANT.
Had entered with the two horses, Mr. Hartley again rang the bell, Saying,
C
"Mr. Van Helmont, I cannot part with you today, unless you have Some very preshng bufiness upon your hands.”
I thanked him very kindly for his politeness and civility j he observed he was, and should ever remain, very greatly my debtor; that he was convinced Mrs. Hartley would be exceedingly happy in my Savouring them with my company; and I know my Caroline to have a Seeling and a gratesui heart; then mrning to his Servant, he. Said, ‘‘ Order these horses into the stable, and show this gentleman’s Servant into the kitchen, and give him, any resreshment he may wish.”
“While the Servant is preparing for dinner, with your leave, Mr. Van
h6
Helmont,

r
^5 ^ THE englisij MERCHANT.
^ s
Flelmont, I will walk with you into the garden; it will give the Ladies time to recover themselves a little Sroin what has So materially affected us all.”
I bowed, and taking my hat, prepared
to Sollow him.
We passed
great
u
through a Small parlour, at the Sarther Side of which a door opened into a very pretty garden, not large, but it appeared to be laid out with taste. In the centre was a Small bu neat bowling green; the walks round it were rather broad, and the Space between the walks and the wall was planted with a great variety of flowers, not more charming to the sight than gratesul to the Smell. Adjoining to this garden, and only parted by an open palisade, about Some Soui Sect high, was the kitchen garden, the whole together I took to be Something more
than
  I 57
than two acres; everything necessary for Samily use appeared to be in a state of good cultivation. After walking Some time, the Servant came to accjuaint his master the table was covered, when we immediately returned. The lovely Caroline had thrown off her habit, and appeared in a genteel undress; if I thought her before everything that was lovely and beautiful, how more than commonly interested were my feelings now, that she had acquired by the change every feminine softness that could interest and engage the af sedlions; she observed, and I thought did not appear displeased at the emotion and disorder her charms occasioned. Mr. Hartley placed me next his Lady, and opposite the lovely amiable Caroline, who appeared more interesting from the diftress the accident in the morning had given rise to. Dinner being over, fruit and wine placed on
the
158 THB
the table, and the Servant withdraw!?, I thought it would be no ways improper in me to impart to Mr. Hartley and the Ladies, as concisely as I could. Some little account of my family, and their residence. Mr. Hartley listened to my, narrative very attentively, and his Lady and lovely daughter appeared much interested, when I had related every circumstance that I conceived to be necessary or interesting.
Mr. Hartley inquired’ how long my Sather had been at Batavia, and how many years it was since he lest Amsterdam? To these inquiries I returned Suitable answers. We Spent a very agreeable asternoon,, and when I came to take my. leave, Mr. and Mrs. Hartley were particularly pressing for my calling upon them (So long as I should stay in this part of the country) as fre -- quently as I could, while the lovely
Caroline

  i59;
Garoline blushing Said, She hoped I would not confider mysels a stranger in a Samily who lay under the obligation her papa.and mamma were happy to acknowledge they did, ” expressing a proper sense of the honour done me, and engaging to morning to inquire aster her health, making each a very respedlsui bow, I retired, which for the present shall conclude me, .dear. Sir,
call the following
Your most obedient.
And obliged humble Servant,
h£nry VAN helmonts
lo
LETTER XXII
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
Wimple - Streets Cavendifa squar'e:.
DEAR SIR,
Y former Served to acquaint my very kind and respedlable
« •
friend with every interesting incident since my return to town. Agreeable to my engagement v/iih Dr. Smith I did mysels the honour of waiting upon him 5 that Gentleman was at home, and disengaged. After the usual Salutation,
  ll
tation, I took the liberty to inquire
aster the health oshis Lady and daugh
%
ters, and had the satissadlion to learn they were persedlly well. The Servant now brought chocolate, which having drank, Mr. Smith expressed himsels nearly in the Sollowing words :
The connexion, Mr. sommer ville expresses a desire to Sorm with my Samily, is of that very interesting nature, and So much does our present,. as well as future, happiness depend upon it, that too much consideration cannot be bestowed, on what must Sorm the basis of the mutual happiness or misery for lise : Virtue and amiability of disposition, united with no little
delight in domestic concerns, constitute, in no Small degree, the leading features in the female charadier; these very material points should never be lost sight of by the man, who, capable
01
r
ll
of distinguishing, wishes to enjoy, in the union he forms, all that felicity
that will naturally result from a choice
*
So made; nor is there, in my opinion,
a Ids attention to be paid to all the considerations that constitute the Sclicity of the married state by a woman of sense; for though mankind, from custom and perhaps from false ideas, indulge the men in liberties that would ruin, in the opinion of the world, the female character, I am notwithstanding inclined to think a virtuous, as well as a moral, character, absolutely neces sary in the men to raise the structure of their mutual happiness upon. How miserable must it be for a woman of strict virtue and delicacy to find hersdf united, in the most solemn manner,, to a man of dissolute manners 1. Can hap piness be expected to ssowfrom a Source So contaminated?. Certainly not. Mr. Sommerville, I have no doubt, will
pardon

pardon the observations I have made, as they are not the consequence of any inquiry I have made reipeding himself but the interest I take in the general happiness of mankind : I have the heart selt satissadtion to Say everything I have learned, respedling Mr. some merville, has proved, as I wish it may always do, much to his honour, and
consequently to his happiness. aster this remark I shall, for the present,
entertaining
only add, Mrs. Smith nearly the Same ideas with mysels, looks upon Mr. Sommerville as a charafler deserving her relpedt, and Such as may
ultimately merit her affection.
My Lucy, Mr. Sominerville, has been brought up under the immediate care of her mother and myself; if nature has not dealt her favours with a Scanty hand, which you shall have the privilege of deciding upon, I trust
education
164
education hath Set off to advantage those rare and excellent qualities that adorn and grace her mind, the native purity of which can only be equalled by her duty, affection and Seeling; is to be the best of daughters promise
and presage what, in my opinion, they rarely Sail to complete, the man, who
can engage her affections, has everything to hope and expect that this transitory state hath to bestow, the poffeshon of a lovely virtuous woman.”
He now rose from his chair, took me very affectionately by the hand, and concluded by
observing.
Mrs.
Smith and her daughters were gone a shopping. myselshave an engagement for an hour at the Bank. We dine at three o’clock, and shall expect the pleasure of your company. I returned my very refpectful acknowledgments
for
  165
for the kind opinion he entertained of me; for the honour he did me in acceding to my hopes, that my desire to deserve the good opinion of himself and his Lady could be only exceeded by my love and attachment for his truly amdable daughter, whose affection to Secure was more interesting' to

ray feelings, more necessary to my happiness, than any and every consideration under heaven. Independent in my fortune I never Suffered pecuniary considerations to have the least vreight with me, even for a moment 3 attractions, Such as are evidently conspicuous in his lovely daughter, alone had charms for me, as they are qualities above all value. So they are the only consideration that could incite my mind, to Solicit the honour I had, to deserve which would constitute all my future happiness: Wiihing Mr. Smith a good morning we now parted. On my
5
return
l66
return I called upon Sir George bing lay, who appears exceedingly anxious Sora Second sight of the lovely Polly,
declaring she has never since that evening been absent from his mind. I hope my growing intimacy in the family will be the means of introducing him to that lovely and amiable girl.
Having Sat Some time, I returned home to dress for my engagement with the charming Lucy. This I did in a neat, not showy, manner; when I again paid a visit to Great Ormond street, the worthy Doctor was returned, as were the Ladies, who, he Said, were just step’d upstairs to adjust their hair. He now gave me the news paper, while he read two or three letters that had been received in his absence. In little more than a quarter of an hour the Servant gave notice the table was
covered.
6
Mr.
  167
Mr. Smith immediately rising, Said, “Give me leave, Mr. Sommerville, to show you the way.”
and daughters.
I bowed, and prepared to follow, which having done, we found Mrs, Smith and her lovely daughters standing by the fide of the diningroom fire. The dodor presented me to his Lady
The former received me with much Seeming pleasure and respedt. The lovely Sisters blushing, drop’d me a courtesy, which I returned with a respedlful bow. We then moved forward to the table, when the
i
Doctor made me happy, by desiring me to seat myself next the enchanting Lucy, which I did, bending my body fiightly as I sat down. Dinner over, and having drank two or three glasses of wine, the Doctor said, turning round to his daughters:
« If
A
l6s
IS you are not, my dears, tired,
stippose you take a walk in the rnuseum
garden for an hour, it will make your
%
asternoon pass more agreeably over, and I dare Say Mr. Sommerviile will give you his company and protection.”
The dear girls, without any hesitation, expressed their readiness to comply with the dodor’s wish, and you may be well assured I expressed my Satisfadlion at the proposal, and my readiness to attend the Ladies. They immediately withdrew to prepare them sclves, and in less than ten minutes returned; paying our respedts to the worthy Doctor and his Lady, we took our leave for the present. This pro
i,
menade gave me the greatest pleasure imaginable, as I flattered mysels I .should find Some opportunity to ex press my sense of the honour the Lady
did
  169
did me, in permitting me to hope one day to call So much excellence mine. Her lovely Sister, conscious of my wishes, and Seeling for that distress the want of an opportunity would occasion, drawing a paper out of her pocket. Said,
Mr. Sommerville excuse me: Lucy, I will join you presently, but I wish to
'So
once again.
perule this letter Saying she stopped at the end of one of the walks while we proceeded on: This moment was much too precious to be lost 3 taking advantage of her sister’s absence, I gently took hold of her left hand, and carried it relpe^ fully to my lips:
“To be permitted, ever amiable miss Smith, for the honour of one day calling So much beauty and excellence mine, fills my heart with unipeakable happiness and joy : It will be my con
VOL. II
I
stant
lyo
stant pride, and indeed constitute my Sole happiness, to endeavour to in crease your’s, to render mysels worthy of the distinguished honour I am So Sqlicitous to enjoy.’" Still Suffering me to hold her lovely hand she, blushing, replied:
The very Savourable Sentiments entertained of Mr. Sommerville, by my honoured papa and mamma, cannot Sail to induce me to respedt him; and should my heart ever incline me to leave their protedling arms, I hope the man I give my hand to will not think it entirely undeserving his affection and regard; it shall be then as much a
s
pleasure as it will be a duty to consult his happiness; indeed it will make the greatest pleasure of my lise.”
She now stopped, when I immediately replied, " IS to wish were to
dcsevre,
  lyt
deserve, I should be happy in the extreme; for every Sentiment in my breast would be congenial to her own; that her lovely person had taken shch entire possession of my heart, it left no room for increase of passion.”
“To Say that Mr. Sommerville is indifferent to me, would be holding a language foreign to my heart, as I have always been accustomed to speak the genuine Sentiments of it: I shall rely entirely on your affection and Sentiment for this declaration, persuaded you are incapable not to feel it as you should.”
I made the most Suitable return I could for this condefeenfion, when observing her lovely lister approaching, I pressed her lovely half inverted lips to mine, which she delicately, though not
reluctantly, permitted.
Polly now
joined US; I thank the lovely girl in
l2
the
iy2
the warmest terms for the opportunity she had afforded me to declare to her lovely Sister the Sentiments of my heart.
She blushing, replied, ‘MS Lucy will pardon my leaving her, I hope Mr. Sommerville will excuse it.’"
I bowed, and kissed her hand. After this the conversation took a more general turn. We admired the beautiful prospedts formed by the Surrounding hills, till thinking it time to retire we lest this pleasant Spot, and explored our way back. The Doctor and his Lady were both sitting in a Small parlour, where I presume they drink tea when their party is not large: Here we drank tea, which having finished, the Doctor Said to Mrs. Smithst
“My dear, if you, your daughters, and Mr. Sommerville, are dilposed for
a
  i73
a pool at quadrille, or a rubber. of whist, I beg you will order the table out; for though 1 very Seldom play mysels, I have not the least objection to cards as an amusement j they are a relief from more Serious engagements, and afford an innocent recreation. — The Ladies assenting, we amused ourselves till shpper, which being finished, after drinking a few glasses of wine, I prepared to take my leave; when Mr Smith rising at the Same instant, Saic^> ** I entertain not the least doubt but that I shall always feel the same Sentiments for Mr. Sommerville which I how do; therefore I entreat he will not, from motives of delicacy, be induced to think his visits, though frequent, the least troublesome; neither Mrs. Smith or myself entertaining the Same good opinion, can for a moment confider them in that light, but rather look upon them as we wish to find
I 3
them.
174 the  ?.
them, the harbinger of Suture happiness.


I offered the most Suitable acknowledgments
I could for his kind indulgence, made a very respedlable obeisance to his Lady and Polly, when pressing the lovely lucy’s hand to my lips, 1 'retired for the evening: And
i
now, my dear Sir, first begging your pardon for the great length of this letter, I shall conclude, with all resped .and regard,
Your most obedient,
And obliged humble Servant,
H. SOMMERVILLE.
LETTER

THE INCUSH MERCHANT,. I'll
LETTER XXIII
; L
MISS CAROLINE HARTLEY,
T O
MISS EMILY JOHNSON.
Great Ormond street^ Bloomjbury.
DEAR EMILY,
HAD the pleasure to receive your agreeable letter, and beg you a
thousand pardons for delaying to answer it So long. The worthy Dodfor and family are yet in town, and, oh! my dear, the lovely Lucy was, while at the Theatre, grossly insulted by Some coxcomb who had made too free with
i4
his

his wine; but unexpectedly relieved from her distress by the Sudden interposition of Mr. Sommerville, who, having lost all patience at her long absence, had arrived in London Some little time before, and was by accident that evening at the house. This circumstance, through the medium of a Dr, Grainger, who attended the Ladies, has been the means of introducing Mr. Souimerville into Mr. smith’s family, and I expect and hope the happiest consequences will flow from it; So that you See, my dear Emily, the stranger has made his appearance again, and in ail probability will continue no inconsiderable person in the piece; but leaving my amiable Lucy to take all due care of what most concerns her, I will, with your leave, make you acquainted with all that hath
occurred to your friend, and I assure
you

%
you I have not been without interesting circumstances. Shave besore acquainted vou, that almost ever since the departure of the lovely Sisters I had lost all relish for those walks which once were pleasing j on which account I have lately, for air and exercise,
m ^ ^
rode at Such times as the weather permitted me : It was in one of my morning
excursions that, owing to
Some
V
unlucky boys Swinging upon a gate by the road fide, that my little poney, being frightened, ran off with me, in Spite of every effort I could make. Being no bad horse woman, '. I kept my Seat for a considerable distance, till, as I suppose, a stone occasioned my horse to stumble: ■ I ’ then. came down, but was providentially Saved from the dreadful Situation I must have experienced. By the interposition of a Gentleman, who, taking his morning ridcj shad, for Some little time before;
15
observed

lys
observed my distress, and dismounting, ' flew instantly to my relies, and, happily for your friend, caught me (when falling) in his arms. The exertion I had made, united with the terror that Seized me, when I Sound all my endeavours ineffedtual, occasioned me to Swoon. The Gentleman had carried and Seated me upon the bank, and by the aid of his servant (who had caught both his master’s horse and my runaway) had, by the help of a little Spring water, recovered me a little; when opening my eyes, and observing a genteel young Gentlemaii standing by my fide, 1 again Swooned; the stranger applied Some water to my lips, which having just tasted, it relieved me: My deliverer observing this,, in a low and feeling voice, begged me not to alarm rayseif; that he had been So fortunate as to arrive (he hoped in time) to Save ms from any material injury, j should * his
  17^
his hopes in that instance happily prove true, he should esteem the event of the morning the most fortunate of his life. Encouraged by this discourse,
nor less bv his manner, I Summoned
A
up all my natural Spirits, to thank him as I ought j and having done So, I expressed my desire to return home, when he politely entreated me to accept the farther assistance of his arm,. which, after the Service he had rendered me, I Saw no necessity of resusingi Indeed there was Something So expres lively tender in his looks and carriage, that I should have held it down right prudery to have refused him, after the obligation I had to him;, therefore, without the least hesitation, I com j his Servant leading the horses, along the road, having given him the necessary instructions, we took ourw^y across the fields, in order to shorten the. distance, as my left ankle pained.
16
m:
lo
me no little.
At length we arrived
s
at elm house, when my papa observing me from the parlour window on Soot, and attended by a stranger, instantly came Sorward, and immediately asterwards my dear mother Solr lowed, to learn the cause.
I Satisfied their impatience and concern, by reciting, in the concisest manner I could, the accident that had besallen me, and the very Sortunate circumstance of that Gentleman passing by at that instant of time, and the obligations I was under to him for the protection he had afforded me. My ever honoured parents were, as you. will naturally suppose, greatly affected but recovering themselves as.. Soon as
m
they could they thanked my deliverer in the warmest terms. I; now retired with my dear mother, to apply Some --
thing to my ankle, Sori shad walked in.
no
  ll
no little pain. On our return into the parlour we Sound the stranger and my papa were in the garden, and that my honoured papa had engaged his dining with us. They Soon returned, the Servant having been ordered to call his master; we then Sat down to dinner, which being finished, and the Servants withdrawn,. I had the pleasure to learn. from my deliverer’s own lips his name, Samily and residence. I find his father has resided many years at a Settlement belonging to the States of Holland, in the East Indies; but is shortly expected to return to Europe, and take up his residence in this kingdom, having first fettled all his engagements with his, •employers in Holland; that Mr. Van Helmonti for that is my deliverer’s: name, is an only Son, indeed an only child, his father having lost the only,
one he had (himself excepted) at Batavia, which was a daughter by aiecond
Lady,
I 8a
lady, whom he married at that place, and brought him an immense fortune. She unsortunately Sell a Sacrifice to a very violent fever Some few months after she had produced to his father his deceased Sister.
My parents are both greatly taken with this young Gentleman, and, to confess a truth, a very engaging amiable young man he appears. He has, upon taking leave, promised (at the particular desire of my papa) to favour us So long as he may continue in this
part of the country, with his company
*
as often as he conveniently can. My
dear Emily may expect that I should describe the person of Mr. Van hel mont, well then take the following short Sketch : ■ He is rather taller than what, is called the middle Size i, has remarkable fine brown hair, large black eyes, and very expreshve, denoting much
feeling:
  l8j
Seeling and Senfibiiity; they are beau tisully arched with hair, rather lighter than what adorns his head; his nose is Roman, and Sora Soreigner is graceful; indeed he has no Sartherthe appearance of a Soreigner, than having rather a paleness in his countenance, that indicates great delicacy of constitution; his lips poffess a tolerable share of colour, and his teeth are remarkably white and even; indeed, take Mr. Van Helmont for all in ail, there is Something about him exceedingly, engaging and interesting. May health and hap piness attend my Emily, is the constant wish of
Her affectionate.
C HARTLEY
LETTER
184 TH
LETTER xxm.
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESQ.
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, esqi
DEAR SIR,
Scarborough
N my Sormer letter I had the honour to; relate to you my having met with: miss. Hartley, together with the accident that occasioned; it, and the particulars that passed on my being permitted to wait on her home, and the promise L was under of calling at elm house as, Srequently as I could.. Indeed, my; dear Sir, Mr. Hartley had no. occasion
to
V
7

to press what it was impossible in me to avoid, the calling upon him at all my opportunities; but to proceed : The morning aster the accident, and agreeable to my engagement, leaving my horse and Servant at the gate we had the day besore passed through, with orders to walk them about till two o’clock, when, if I did not appear, to return home, as in that case I should
y
not want him till the evening. I proceeded on foot to the house of Mr, Hartley, reached there about twelve o’clock, and Sound that Gentleman, his Lady, and lovely daughter, at home. After Saluting the two former, 1 made my particular inquiries respecting the health of the amiable miss Hartley, and whether the Sprain she had received the preceding day was attended with much pain, or had any unpromising aspedt, I had the great pleasure to learn her perfect health, and
that.
186 THB
shat. Saving a Small degree of Swelling, and a little stiffness in the joint'of her ankle, the consequence of the for mer she neither Selt, nor dreaded any bad effects.
I congratulated her upon escaping So dreadsul a risk with So little injury; This, next to Heaven, she, with a voice as sost and Sweet as melody itself, imputed to my Seeling and Spirit,, while the recolledlion of her wonderful escape made her in private pay frequently her acknowledgments to that Great Power who protedled her j it as constantly put her in mind of her obligation to myself, who had been the instrument in his hands of her preservation and safety“
“my dear Caroline (Mrs, Hartley pursuing her daughter's idea
and discourse) should express her acknowledgments
  1b7
knowledgments in Such warm terms to Mr. Van Helmont does not in the least Surprise me, who have long known and experienced, that her Semfibility and sweetness of disposition can only be equalled by her gratitude : IS the little civilities of lise can give rise to the tender emotions they So frequently have in the breast of my much loved daughter, I can expect nothing less from her Seeling, the greatness of her obligation considered, ”
This very tender and affectionate compliment paid by the mother to her lovely daughter, finished what her native Sensibility had began. She drop’d her lovely cheek upon her mother’s shoulder, and indulged in a flood of tears, which appeared to relieve her greatly. Mr. Hartley observing this. Said to his Lady, We will for the present, my dear, wave all farther dis
course
l88   '
coiirse on this Subject; it will only distress our dear daughter without discharging our obligations to this Gentleman; unwilling totontinue a Subject already too affecting, yet to have pasted entirely over unnoticed that gentleman’s sense of the Savour, might have induced on the mind of Mr. Hartley what to conceive only for a moment would have wounded my peace greatly. I felt bound, in justice to my own cha ra<5l: er, as well as due to that of the amiable mother, nor less amiable Caroline, for the Sentiments they entertained upon it; therefore addressing myself to Mr. Hartley, I replied, in a manner that should at once convince them, ‘‘ that the incident of the preceding day had, with refpcdl to myself, laid the highest obligations upon ’ Observing, without dwelling on the accident, that it had introduced me to the honour of miss hartley’s acquaintance.
me.
  i89
quaintance, or the pleasure resulting
respedt
from it, in the regard and himlels and Lady honoured me with, and also of the gratification I received in having been Selcdted by Sat to gain So strong an interest in the lovely caroline’s feeling bosom; gratesul and
powersul as these considerations were, they are, I Said, infinitely short of what I hoped I should one day owe to their acknowledgments. Mr. Hartley took me very affectionately by the hand, and Smiling upon his lovely daughter, Said, “Mr. Van Helmont will never have to Solicit me or Mrs. Hartley a Second time upon any sub jedt that has at once the approbation of himself and the Sandlion of our Caroline.”
I made Mr. and Mrs. Flartley each a respedtful bow, and turning round, pressed the hand of their amiable
daughter
190
daughter respedtsully to my lips :
“This Subject, my dear, ” Mr. Hartley turning round to his amiable Lady, immediately Said, “has become from Mr. Van helmont’s Seeling, much more instruding than we at first expected;; I can assure you, Sir, ” taking my hand a Second time, no ways unpleasantly So, “the interest you have in caroline’s Seeling heart, with her permission (for I can answer for her mother) you shall have every opportunity to improve: What does my lovely daughter Say to Mr. Van helmont’s desires? Tenderly as she is beloved by her parents, we shall not hesitate to place her under the immediate protection of a Gentleman, who knowing
her worth, will have the strongest of allhuman ties to protect her, to cultivate her happiness, ”

What
  II
“What answer can I, my dear and honoured Sir and Madam, make to a proposal So unexpedledly made? I am not insenfible to the amiable qualities that cannot fail to recommend Mr. Van melmont’s pretensions to any Lady he may chuse to distinguish and leledt; and since his wishes has the approbation and concurrence of my honoured parents, time, I think, cannot Sail to produce in my breast Sentiments congenial to his own.”
Making a very respedlsul bow to Mr. and Mrs. Hartley, I drop’d on one knee before their lovely daughter, and pressing once more her lovely hand to my lips, I made her the most empaff stoned acknowledgments I could for her goodness and condescension j when ristng, entreated the honour to Seal on those lovely lips the sacredness of my obligations and gratitude to her; but
6 Seeling
192
feeling I ought not tc> expect a reply, I instantly Saluted her. Mrs. Hartley, in order to dispel the delicate Seelings of my charming Caroline, Said to Mr. Hartly, ‘‘ We will, my dear, retire for the present; I need not press for the Savour of Mr. Van helmont’s company I am convinced, after the interesting conversation of this morning, but shall expect the pleasure to find him with you at our return the Ladies each dropping me a courtesy retired. I now made the most Suitable acknowledgments I could to Mr. Hartley for the honour he did in thinking me worthy of aspiring to the hap piness of obtaining the hand of his very lovely and amiable daughter; that Gentleman was pleased to Say, that abstraded from the obligations I had laid him under, he felt a very strong desire to further my happiness by every means in his power; that he was once
poffeltedi
  i93
possessed of a Splendid fortune, which was Suddenly torn from him through an unhappy mistake of a much loved brother; that he could at present only give his Caroline ten thousand pounds; what she might have at the decease of her mother, provided she shall Survive me, will not be less; but V ait a hundred times the Sum, he was convinced I should, by my condiidl, entitle myself to it.” By this time the Ladies had returned, when the conversation, as a relief to all parties, took a different turn : I dined and Spent the day there, and am in a manner one of the family. Entreating your pardon for occasioning you So much trouble as to peruse lb long a letter, I beg leave to subscribe
Dear Sir,
Your very obedient humble Servant,
. V HELMONT
yol. II
K
LETTER
194 i the
LETTER XXV
CHARLES MANLEY, ESO
T O
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ES
Brook streeti Grofuenor square
DEAR SIR,
HAVE had the pleasure to receive your Several favours from Scarborough, acquainting me with your accidental meeting with miss Hartley, and also with the interest you have raised in the breast of that very amiable young Lady : Possessed as she appears to be of So much fine Seeling and Sentiment,
/
  195
timent, her dreadsul escape So Sresh upon her mind, super added to the evident respedt and regard shown to you by her respedlable parents, could not Sail to induce Something more than esteem in her gentle bosom for her deliverer; abstratsted from the influence your engaging manner and address could not Sail to incite, your Sortune and expedlation out of the question, you are now, my dear young friend, in the precise Situation my experience allotted to you, provided you ever encountered this agreeable young Lady, the loveliness of whose character alone had prepared your mind to admire, resped and love, the original; an attachment that hath esteem for its basss is the most likely to attain the Summit of human happiness; it is unlike that violent pashon which takes Such Sudden hold of its votaries, that lasts a month, or a little year, and then Settles into
K 2 indifference.
196
indifference, and too Srequently into contempt j happiness in the married state can only be expected to fiow from parity of Sentiment and dispofition j a continuance of it from the mutual tenderness and regard (individually felt) the consequence of the kind, generous, and distinguished Sentiment, each
entertain for
O
the
Other j that miss
Hartley stands eminently conspicuous, and adorned with every quality that can create love and Sweeten life, I have the firmest belief, that my young friend hath correspondent excellencies I am as fully convinced, and that all possible happiness will result from their union I have the most entire reason to hope and expect; yet I must own I cannot help wishing your honoured father may first arrive, not from any apprehension I entertain that the smallness of Mils hartley’s fortune (pardon me, my dear Harry, the apparent disqualification of
this
  1^7
this remark) while I affure you I do, and have even considered the amiable virtues of the mind above all price, and indeed Superior to every other consideration;; from a desire that he should Sandlion by his presence what, constituting your happiness, cannot fail to increase his own : I have, as you are So much better engaged, provided, agreeable to your dear sather’s desire, an elegant moderate sized house, in Wimpole - Street, Cavendish - Square, which is now under going every necessary repair and alteration. I expel, in the course of little more than a month, to have it ready for h’s reception, the furniture being already in a state of great forwardness, and his arrival will not exceed (Oiould his passage prove favourable) six weeks from this time. Whatever Sum or Sums your intended connexion may render neces sary or agreeable, I hope you will do

me
1c)2
me the honour to command; Sori beg, till Such time as my dear and much respedled Mr. Van Helmont may arrive, you will consider me to have a kind of paternal interest in your happiness, and consequently, in whatever may constitute it.
I remain, my dear Sir,
Your affectionate friend.
CHARLES MANLEY
LETTER
  I 09
letter XXVI
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ
T O
HENRY SOMMERVILLE, ESQ;.
Brook street^ Caventiijh square,
DEAR SIR,
YO UR Several favours have been
received; they have afforded me the greatest satissadlion, as I think I shall have shortly to congratulate you on your .union with the truly lovely and amiable miss Smith, whose accomplished mind and elegant person cannot Sail to render a man, of your good
k4
sense
200
and liberal Sentiments, happy, completely So, her rare qualities considered, with the ample endowments of your mind : IS an union of Such excellencies produce not happincss, I must own I know not where to expect it. I have for many years entertained a very Serious respedl for Dr. Grainger, both as a professional man, and a most deserving character; and I assure you, my dear Sommerville, the interest he has taken in your concerns on this occasion, 1 shall consider as a very particular favour; in forwarding the virtuous honourable view of my friend, he has conferred a very Singular obligation upon me. I admire and respedl the character of Dr. Smith and his Lady, and cease to wonder at the eminently amiable qualities of the lovely Lucy and Polly, when I ressedt what great advantages they have had in being brought up under their immediate notice
  201
tice and care. From the interest you have in the happiness of your friend, Sir George Bingley, and from that which I feel for the amiable Polly, I shall, at Some Suture day, be happy to learn the prospedt of their union. His own estate is considerable, and his pros pedts, ^ upon the death of his uncle, the Samily title out of the question, greatly advantageous, and where wealth, and the elegancies of lise could be better bestowed, I am yet to. discover. ■ If, a. lovely accomplished woman hath not the first and highest claims, what 'enjoyment can great possessions produce to their owners, if they enlarge not the Scale, of general happiness; the
million, might have as well remained in the mine as in, the Solitary, chest of the miser, for any advantage it produces to the bulk of mankind; it is public benefit, not private advantage, that

constitutes.

202
*
constitutes universal happiness and east, and whatever tends tb promote that' great end, is, of con Sequence, to be admired and esteemed: Thus Sortune is a blessing to the possessor, while he is employed in relieving that misery which occupies So great a portion of this life j instead of lessening his enjoyments he must add to them greatly, as the very action evinces that good ness of heart, and nobleness of nature, which receives what it confers a favour. The truly noble, my dear Harry, want no incitement to generosity; let the worth (or what to a feeling mind operates as powerfully) the distress of the obje<5l: appear, the claim is immediately felt and recognised, and every power of nature intercedes with their feelings, but as this is an argument not much calculated for the bulk of manr
•j
kind being analized but by the few, I
shall
  20^
shall quit it as a subjea little understood, and infinitely less Selt.
Pray make my compliments to Dr. Grainger, and look in at your first opportunity in Lower Brook Street; sincerely wishing every happiness may constantly attend you, I conclude, my dear Sommerville,
Your affectionate friend.
CHARLES MANLEY.,

k6
LETTER
sv
204 the
LETTER XXVII
HONOURABLE MRS. SPENCER
>
T O
MISS HARTLEY.
Latm lgdgs..
MY DEAR CAROLINE,
friend’s
and
obliging letter gave me the greatest pleasure: I Seel myself much interested in the eventual happiness of the amiable listers; nor do I entertaiu the least doubt that Mr. Sommerville will prove himsels worthy the distinguished honour he So anxioufiy Solicits
they.
ger affects me in the extreme.
  2o5
they Seem'formed, by nature to meet, and meeting to produce that felicity which constitutes the most essential hap pinessof our lives. I congratulate my dear and very amiable Caroline upon her escape; the very idea of her dan
Mr.
Van Helmont has my warmest wishes, and most sincerely do I hope I shall shortly eongratulate him on the completion of his own. The regard and respedt your honoured parents pay to this engaging young Gentleman must (abstradled from, your private Sentiments) have the most decided weight with my dear friend, whose duty and affection can be only equalled by her feeling and goodness; these amiable qualities my dear Caroline posteffes ina very eminent degree, which cannot fail to render her, in the opinion of every man of Sentiment and honour, anobjedl of con tinual affection and regard;, indeed,
2q6
deed, the man who is capable for a moment to neglect So much beauty, joined to Such sweetness of dispofition and elegance of mind, must not only
i
merit the contempt of our whole Sex, shut must be mean and despicable in the eyes of his own: And now, my dear, I have to entreat your pardon for what at first sight may appear a want of confidence; let the delicacy of my Situation plead for your Emily, as nothing but the uncertainty that attends ■an early attachment induced me to conceal what would otherwise have been my pride to acknowledge; Some Seven or eight years Since it was my
fate to be noticed by my first cousin, the Honourable Mr. Spencer, his attachment had the acknowledged approbation and concurrence of my dear and ever honoured mother and aunt, Lady Spencer; we were at that time
too young to enter upon the cares of
the
  207
the world. In order to divert our inclinations, for the present a commission was procured for him, with leave to Serve abroad : This he did in the Service of the King of Frusha till the unhappy disturbances in a lister kingdom and the decided part it pleased His Majesty to take in it, made his return necessary; from that time, till within these two months, he has had the honour to Serve under his Prince, ■itts Royal Highntjs the Puke of Torky when receiving a wound by a musket ball, which passed through the fleshy part of his shoulder, he obtained leave to consult the reestablishment of his health in his native air. The distress I experienced on his return, finding his attachment unalterably the Same, is better conceived than expressed; eveiy assistance, that art and skill could give, was resorted to, to restore him to health, to his Samily and friends, which, aided
20s
by a good constitution, has happily Succeeded : No Sooner was his wound healed than: he incessantly entreated the persormance of my engagement, the
Savour of ray hand. My dear mother and very affedlionate aunt Seconded his views, then how was it possible for me,, not indifferent to his wishes, to withstand the shlicitations of those friends I most loved, and honoured?
My. heart, my feeling heart, long Since his own,, I yielded, and was married by a Special licence at the house of my aunt in Hill street, Berkley square., The ceremony over, we Sat off, accompanied by my dear mother and aunt, for that lady’s Scat, near windsor. I have been a bride just four weeks this day, and have every reason in life to acknowledge, happy as I before was, that my present state is truly enviable.
My
  20g
My dear husband has just perused the above, when tenderly embracing me, he intreats the honour to join to the kind wishes of myself and family his own, which I do with peculiar pleasure to mvself. I remain,
My dear Caroline,
Your Sincerely affectionate
JSMILY SPENCER.
I,
LETTER
210
♦
LETTER XXVIII
MISS HARTLEY,
T O
THE HONOURABLE MRS. SPENCER
MY DEAR MADAM,
Elm uoufe.
NTERESTED as I am in everything
that affects my dear Emily, (pardon this Sreedom of expression, but habit is not very easily conquered, the more especially when it is the con sequence of Seeling and regard) the letter you did your Caroline the Savour to write her, could not Sail to give her the greatest pleasure imaginable; for while I own the engagements you have
entered
  ill
%
entered into surprised me no little, and the secresy with which the whole affair has been condudled, affe(5led my feeling (our friendship considered) yet Such the interest I have in my dear friend’s future prospects, that, losing every other idea in my regard, I congratulate her most truly and affedlion ately on the having bestowed her hand upon her respedlable cousin, whole constancy alone in this age of levity and infidelity gives no little assurance that he knows how to value the happiness he is in poffeshon of. The interest your honoured mother and Lady Spencer took in your union, could not fail to have great influence on the mind of my amiable friend, even though her affections had been less in unison to
their views than they happily proved to be; when parents condescend to entreat (or only gently urge) who have been So accustomed to command, the heart
not
X
212
%
not previouoy engaged, a truly dutisul and affcdionate daughter must undergo a very Severe confiidt in her mind besore she can bring hersels to resufe, where she has ever felt it her duty to comply and obey; then what must her gratification be when her own Seeling mind meets with a Secret pleasure in the tender wishes of her parents? Surely, if any consideration can increasc to a delicate Semale mind, the happiness that results from the connexion she has Sormed, it must arise from the pleasing sensations occasioned from reflecting, that while she pursued what constituted her own happiness, she has the unspeakable satissaclion to know it equally constitutes that of her family j
when this is happily the case, there
^ \
Springs from the union an increase to the general happiness of all the parties, and the daughter, when introduced to the parents of her husband, is from
that
  2IJ
that moment looked upon as their own child i indeed, with a peculiar degree of tenderness and affection, as being the Source of happiness to a Savourite Son. My amiable Mrs. Spencer Seems to prophesy respeding Mr. Van helmont: : is indeed now a constant visitor at elm house, and no little Savourite with my honoured parents; and to conceal nothing from my friend, I own, without a blush, with pleasure own, I every day See more and more reason to admire and approve his Sentiments and manners. To my dear parents he is everything that is expressive of respect;; your Caroline he is all that is delicate, tender and affectionate; theresore how shall be able to withstand his constant importunities I am unable to Say, especially when my compliance will gratify very evidently my father and mother.
Pray
/
long I
214
Pray make my respcdful compliments to the Ladies of your Samily, and my kind acknowledgments to Captain Spencer for the interest he takes in the happiness of your friend.
I remain, my dear Madam
Your affectionate,
C HARTLEY.
LETTER

215
LETTER XXIX

HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESO.
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ.
MY VERY DEAR SIR, — Scarhorctigh,
HAD the honour to receive your letter, which demands itiy warmest acknowledgment. I am gratified in the highest degree by the Sentiments you are pleased to express towards my ever amiable Caroline, nor lest sh for the kind opinion you are pleased to entertain of mysels; that miss Hartley will continue to merit the distindtion
6
you

ai
you pay her I have not the least doubt, and I beg leave to assure you it will make the pride of my lise to be honoured with your regard : The distin
%
guished attention you have So kindly and politely paid to me, ever Since my arrival from the East, has, and will ever continue to impress my mind with the liveliest gratitude and relpedt. I have in no instance wanted a parent. Such your tender concern and Solicitude, Save in my desire to behold him in this happy isse: Your observation, ab straded from the duty I owe to my dear Sather, and the happiness it cannot but afford me to have his Sandion and presence, will always be received with the mark’d deserence and resped they, in every point of view. So eminently claim : Indeed, in his absence I should consider myself unpardonable in the extreme to enter into the most Serious engagements of life without
first
  217
first Soliciting your entire approbation.
I hope a Sew weeks, perhaps days, may restore him to the arms of the friend he has So long valued and respedled, the news of which will bring me instantly to his Sect to receive his blessing, to Solicit his approbation to my love for my amiable Caroline; Since you are So kind as to give the necessary direduons with re Sped! to the furniture of the house you have been pleased to take for him, my presence, while you are So good as to difpense with it, must be utterly unnecessary, unacquainted as I am with everything of the nature, and equally So with the persons, whose province it is to Supply and provide the Several articles in their respedlive trades.
I have continued proofs of the re ipedt and regard Mr. and Mrs. Hartley are pleased to entertain in my favour,
VOL. II
L
and
21 8
I
and have the happiness to discover daily the interest I gain in the affections of
I
their lovely daughter, whose Sentiments
r
in my Savour (though evidently restrained by the natural delicacy of her mind) are, notwithstanding. Sufficiently conspiciioiis to a discerning interested lover; the more I know of this lovely girl, the more my attachment is rivet ted, the higher, if possible, she rises in my opinion and regard. Speaking the other morning of our intended union, Mr. Hartley remarked to his Lady, how deeply they should feel the absence of their Caroline, whose duty and affection made the chief pleasure of their lives; to lose the pleasure of her company entirely would be insupportable. I took the liberty to reply, that whenever that happy day arrived, that should give me possession of So much beauty and excellence, I should be happy to evince to her respedfable parents the
interest

■2
19
interest I had in everything that could render them happy; that my Caroline (raising her lovely hand to my lips) should be the entire mistress of her time in everything that related to her duty for her honoured Sather and mother, and that she could not gratify my feelings more Sincerely than in devoting it So as as to contribute it to their happiness: : both at the same instant rose and embraced me, while my lovely feeling girl gave me a look So inexpressibly tender and affefubnate, for the proof I gave, not more of love for herself than my honour and regard for her parents, that pierced my very heart, and thrilled through my veins, with a degree of pleasure So exquisitely affecting, that the rernembrance of it will live with me through life. Indeed, the emotion it gave rise to did not
escape Mr. hartley’s observation, who,
L 2 Said,
2, 20
Said, “I think, my dear, ” addreshng himself to his Lady, ‘‘ Mr. Van hel mont’s Seelings are congenial with our lovely daughter’s, and cannot Sail to produce that happiness that minds congenial only know.”
I have the honour to be, dear Sir,
Your most obedient.
And obliged humble Servant,
HENRY VAN HELMONT.
LETTER
  221
LETTER XXX
V
HENRY sommervilll, ESQ.
T O
CHARLES MANLEY, ESQ
jvimpole streeti Cavendijh sqtiare.
DEAR SIR,
HAD the pleasure to receive the letter you did me the honour to Send
me by your Servant. The compliment you paid to my charming Lucy was most highly gratisying to my Seelings; indeed I entertain not the least doubt, amiable as you are pleased to think her that a nearer acquaintance will raise her
l3
infinitely
221
infinitely in your opinion; and 1 am certain that every day I have Sresh oc casion to admire and love her, less for her personal charms, than the graces that So very eminently adorn her mind; her Sentiments upon every occasion, when she condescends to Savour me with them, are not only admirably Suited and adapted to the Subject, but are delivered with Such native modesty and delicacy, that I am frequently at a loss which most to admire, the elegance of her language, or the grace and dignity of her manner. I have the honour to be no little respedled by the worthy Doctor and his amiable Lady: I am So far on the road to hap piness, that I have fettled with that
Gentleman all the material points. Such as Settlement, residence and provision, for children: I will endeavour to recollect the conversation that passed on that sub]ed, the better to do justice to
Mr.
  223
Mr. smith’s Sentiments. aster reciting
that my paternal estate, the usual outgoings of every kind being discharged,
netted about Sour thousand five hundred pounds per annum, and that I had in the Sunds a Sum exceeding sixty thousand pounds : I proposed, with his leave and approbation, to present to her lovely Sister the Sum of ten thousand pounds, which by the will of her late aunt my lovely Lucy would, on the day of marriage, become entitled to; and
further to prove how very tenderly I loved her, I should hope he would permit me to Settle upon her one thou* sand pounds per annum for her Sole use j and that,, in cafe of my death, twenty thousand pounds four percents, should be devised her by my will, which should, previous to our marriage, be placed in the hands of two persons as trustees, the nomination resting with himself, the provision to her children;
that
l4
124-
that should more than one child, being Sons, be the consequence of our union, the first of course would enjoy the patrimony, the Second Son ten thousand pounds, and die remaining Sorty thousand pounds to be equally divided amongst the remaining children, is any Such there be, or if but only one, the Said Sum of Sorty thousand pounds to become the entire property of that one, that this little ficetch, as it was the thought of the moment, should be Subject to Such alterations and improvements as his better judgement should Suggest.
I now waited his reply, when he gave me his opinion nearly in thesc words: “besore I make any remarks upon the Subject, now under my consideration, you must permit me, Mr. Sommerville, to return you my thanks for your intended liberality, both with
respedt
  ' 11^
respedv to your intended bride and her lister j to disappoint at any time the views of the truly generous, is always affecting to myself j but I must condition with you, that instead of giving Polly what her Sister will become entitled to, that that Specific Sum only be her Settlement, previous to your, marriage, rested in the Bank, in the
name of two persons trustees, each of
\
us naming one; that should she Survive you, then and in that case, the further sum of five hundred a year for life be added. My daughter, Mr. sommer ville, has been brought up to entertain none but the most disinterested Sentiments and ideas. When she gives you her hand, she will, at the Same time, give you her entire confidence, and would be pained to conceive herself independent of the man, from whose honour and affe(5tion her whole happiness must and *bught to flow; inde
LS
pendent
226
pendent that you are, and in compliance in Some degree with custom, you shall be gratified in presenting her with Such jewels as may best please your taste j and yet I hope, when I conduct you to the altar, the jewel you will then receive will surpass, infinitely surpass, the proudest gem in the diadem of the Monarch. polly’s fortune I am very well enabled to increase, should her Suture connexion in lise make Such addition necessary; and with relpedt
to provision for children, that may and
(
ought to be done by will: Their particular merit or demerits should regulate the mind of the parent on all Such occasions, painsul as it must be to make distindtions where nature has not made ai}y; yet the power remaining where it ought, with the parent operates as a check, and has its Salutary purposes; theresore' to your affection and good ness I would wish to leave this particular
  227
eular part; it is my intention, with the
concurrence of Mrs. Smith, to leave town in the course of ten or twelve
days: It is unnecessary for me to remark the carriage can occasionally carry five persons nearly as well as Sour, unless you preser any other mode of travelling : I give you this early notice, that you may So order your private concerns as to render your stay at the parsonage as convenient as possible.”
I bowed, and thanked him. in terms the most respedlsul, both for his polite offer of a Seat in the carriage, and his observations upon the Subject that had just engaged us. As these words passed from my lips the lovely Lucy entered the room, when the Doctor, smiling; upon his daughter, said.
CC
My

Mr
l6
vile
228
ville wishes to be more generous than I think he should, or am dilposed to permit him to be; will you, my Lucy, think me unkind, when I tell you I have struck off Sull half of his propo sak” — Dropping upon her knees by the fide of his chair, first pressing his hand to her lips, she replied:
‘‘ aster the repeated proofs, which it has been my happy lot to receive, of my dear father’s love and attention,
how can I do other than approve whatever he may recommend to his daughter? and while I hope I shall continue to entertain a lively sense of, Mr. some merville’s affection and generosity, I could wish him to believe, that it will
f
be my pride to owe all the elegancies of life to the man, on whose merit and feeling I shall bestow my hand; where I give my affections, all other considerations are comparatively of little
value;
  220
value; stis the happiness, not the Splendour, much less the independence of lise, I am Solicitous to Secure, and convinced that can only stow from the heart, the only independence I shall be anxious for, is to poffels an undivided interest there.” Saying this she drop’d a respeftsul courtesy, and res tired, leaving me impressed with the most lively sentiments of gratitude, tenderness and love.
“Ever charming girl (I apostrophized to mysels) the confidence you So affedlionately place in your some merviile shall live on my heart with all that tenderness and affection it So eminently deserves; your interest shall be ever mine, your happiness my chiesest pleasure.”

Mr. Smith observing my reverie remarked it. I begged his pardon for
my
230
my Seeming want of resped, declaring I had been contemplating in Silence the excellence of his lovely daughter’s mind. This house, Mr. Sommerville, Said the worthy Doctor, was left me by my late fifler in law; if, after your marriage, you should be inclined to. Ipend any part of the year at the capital, you miay do me the favour to accept it for your town residence, or only occasionally use it till such time as you shall provide yourself with a house more to your liking. I expressed my acknowledgments for this mark of his kindness and attention, observed I; should be happy to consult his lovely daughter’s Sentiments upon that Subject,,, her wishes would direct mine; that.
tv'
the Society of himself and Lady would ever constitute a great portion of my happiness; and as I am convinced it; cannot fail of doing So with his lovely
daughter, I was led to believe wc
should,.
V
  23 I
should, with permission, find Some Seat
in their neighbourhood, in order to
0
enjoy more of it. He politely thanked me for this instance of my respect for Mrs. Smith and himself declaring no
i
thing could make them more happy than our residing near them. With, every wish for the happiness of my very refpedtablc friend, I remain his
Most obedient humble Servant

H. SOMMERVILLE
LETTER
232 TH
LETTER XXXI
THE REVEREND MR. SMITH,

T O
CHARLES HARTLEY, ESQ.
Great Ormond streety Bloomjbury,
DEAR SIR,
OUR saithsul James is now at my house; it affords us all the greatest pleasure to learn the good state of health yourseis, Lady, and amiable daughter, enjoy. I am So exceedingly interested in whatever relates to this worthy man, that I insisted upon going, with him to the solicitor’s, from whose chambers
we
V

  0.^3
we have just returned. The following is the Substance of our conversation with that respedlable civilian: After producing the paper that contained the advertisement, together with a copy of the parish register, properly fignedand attested, which having perused, he immediately rang the bell for his Servant, who instantly appearing, received orders to go diredly to the Chapter coffeehouse, and inquire at the bar for Mr. Jonathan Hawthorn, and in case of his being there, to request his immediate attendance at his chambers upon Special affairs. Having dispatch cd the Servant, addressing himsels to me, he Said, “Your friend, Mr, Scott, Sir, is particularly fortunate, that he should arrive in town at the Same instant of time that the Son of the mortgagee has. Mr. Hawthorn was at my. chambers yesterday evening, to prevail upon me to Surrender’ up the title
deeds
234
deeds of Mr. scott’s grandfather’s estate, pleading there was no existing
issue, and that, as heir at law (being an only child) he was entitled to all his sather’s interest in the Said estate and estates; this I still continued resolved not to dp, till there remained no doubt of an existing heir. Your appearance does away all his imaginary claims. The way I came into the posteshon of the deeds in question was simply this: My friend and client, Oliver Clench, esq. of the county of Stafford, was applied to by Hawthorn for the Sum of four thoiifand pounds on his supposed estates, situated in and near Petton lodge, in the County of Salop. This my client readily agreed to do, provided the title deeds were Sent for the perusal of his Solicitor. Hawthorn acquiesced, and Sent them in a box, agreeable to the diredlions he had received, to my chambers. Hawthorn,
through
  235
through his hurry, not only Sent the deeds, but the mortgage for one thousand pounds, granted by the grandfather of Mr. Scott to his. hawthorn’s father, who, ignorant of the conse quence,
thorn’s attorney the original deeds, which, for a proper consideration, have, there remains no doubt, been delivered
Just as Mr. Heartfree had
lodged in the hands of Haw
up.
finished this remark, the Servant intro duced Mr. Hawthorn, having been So fortunate as to find him at the place where he was directed by his master to go. Mr. Heartfree immediately addressed him in the following manner:
As travelling, Mr. Hawthorn, is not only troublesome, but also very expensive, I congratulate you upon your arriving in town So truly en point nomme. This Gentleman is grand son of the late Jonathan Scott, of Pet
tonne
236
tonne lodge, in the county of Salop. Here is a proper certificate to identify that he is the person he represents himself to be: This Gentleman is the Rev. Mr. Smith, Mr. scott’s friend, (for I had previoussy announced myself) a character too respedlable to countenance imposture. The Surprise that took possession of Hawthorn is much better conceived than expressed; he stared at the lawyer, then, at poor "James, and finished by measuring me from top to toe: At length he exclaimed: “Zounds! can this be true? Are you Sure, Mr. Lawyer, that the man is no cheat? that he has not come to town to cozin me of my estate? He looks like a sharp one.”

Why really, Hawthorn, ” replied the Solicitor, you make me laugh j how the devil are you to be cozined out ofwhat you have no property in ?”
Say
  237
"Say you So, Master black gown, (for he was dressed in order to attend the Court) I will, for all your London tricks and quibbles, let you know that I have an honest title to all the estate, that you So honestly keep the writings of: Father [paid many a hard guinea for them, and I think I know how to keep it in the family."

Well, Hawthorn," replied Mr. Heartfree, I will give you full credit for your very honest intention; but if you can continue the said estates any longer in the Hawthorn family, I will resign my practice, and give you the gown off my back as a gratuity or in trodudory see. Pray did you never hear your father say the estates in ques tion were only limply mortgaged, and have you never Seen Such mortgage ?" The fellow looked planet struck.
« Well,
238
CC
Well
much obliged to you for your goodwill, but lie have none of your mortgage; what, though you have the deeds, ise got the deed of Sale, which was given to father when he bought that estate.”

‘‘ Then you are a d — d lucky sel low is you have, and I would advise you to return home and bring the Same to town with you, as I have what will completely do your business (pulling a deed out of his pocket) provided you should Sail to find this Same deed of Sale.” — This struck the honest Sarmer all of a heap j he could Scarce believe his eyes, though he was no stranger to the circumstance, till he Saw, upon a narrow slip of paper, that bound it round. Some remarks in his own handwriting, “Why, what devil has played
me
3
  2j9
me this trick? How came lawyer heartsree with that paper
Why, really (replied the honest civilian) I may thank your stupidity
Now turning
for the
sight
of it.
round to Mr. Scott, he Said, I congratulate you upon your acceshon to your grandfather’s estate. This mortgage I shall for the present make So
\
free as to keep, in order to Settle what farther claim you have on this honest man for with holding possession So many years.” So Saying, he rang the bell, and desired the Servant to let Mr. Hawthorn out, who did not Seem half dispofed to go, while he must know it
I
was usekss for him to think of staying. This at last he did, muttering to himself as he went: Pox take you for a fool, you have played your master a pretty trick at last giving the front of his head a hearty thump. This re
•
340
Spedbable Gentleman now ordered chocolate, which having drank, we took our leave, and returned to Ormond street.. I made Mr. Scott dine with me, though it was with no little difficulty that 1 could prevail upon him to be Seated; it appeared to distress him So much, I reasoned that part with him, by observing, that as Sortune but too generally makes the Sole difference between master and Servant, the distinction ceased with the Situation; that he had been always respedled above his station from his intrinsic worth and merit; that he possessed qualities in his menial state that raised him infinitely above those who had only Sortune to recommend them; and that his present independent situation entitled him to be received with ail that respedt that property usually meets with j concluding by remarking, that every wealthy Sool Sound his way into
the
  24!
the most respeftable circles, while merit and worth like his was rarely, is ever, distingushed.
these observations had the intended
f
effect. He remained with me for the day. In the evening, having first desired him to leave the deeds with me for Safety, I Sent my Servant with him to his quarters, expressing my wish to See him every day while he continued in town. This he engaged to do, in a
manner both respedful and affecting. The estates this worthy man comes now into the possession of are near, if not quite, six hundred pounds per annum. — I expect, in a very few days, to be able to leave town, and return again to my cure. The worthy Divine, who has done duty for me ever since my .departure, I mean to continue, in order to relieve me, in Some degree, from the constant duties of my function 3 for
M 1
VOL, ir.
243
I shall not ever be induced to quit my parishioners entirely, and that not less from the respedt I entertain for them individually, than the high esteem and regard entertained for my very generous patron; what made the comfort of my lise besore this great addition of Sortune, shall constitute the pleasure of it now. I mean to allow the Rev. Mr. Banks two hundred pounds per annum, payable quarterly, with all Surplice dues: This addition will make his Situation, poor Gentleman, for very poor he is, comfortable, and the satisfaction I shall experience in my own miind will abundantly repay me for the Sacrifice : How unworthy I should conceive myself to be of that fortune it has pleased the Almighty (for we are but instruments in his hands) to bestow upon n e, if I was unmindful of those distressed men, who labour in the Same vineyard widi myscif) or unfeelingly
passed
THE ENGLISH'MERCHANT. 243
pasted over the miseries and distress of any order of men. The particular persuasion I have the honour to be an unworthy meniber of, is no bar neither in its institutes or principles; from that general Spirit of toleration and philanthropy, So evidently the great base of the edifice. The Divine Author recommended love, meeknds and humility, to his discipics and Sodovvers, and was a living examule of the tenets he
diffv Sed : Would to Heaven those Sacred Sentiments were more eminently felt, more universally pradlised : The only way that I know of, is for us individually to Set the example, the
greatest blessings.
like the greatest
wealth, originally flowed from Small Sources and beginnings; and as example hath an evident advantage over precept, aided by the Divine Spirit, every reasonable expectation may be indulged that what happily - now influences th
few
2
G
M 2
244
\
»
few, may in time ultimately pervade the breast of ail mankind 3 that would indeed prove a golden age, when all private distinctions are resolved in the moral one 3 the Superior preeminence of virtue, and the consecjuent happiness resulting from it 3 how happy would it be for our own country, that the little and too frequently dirty interests, that So continually keep us on the jar, could be done away from our minds. What is there in this life, (transitory as it is) that ought to create, much less support, Such continued animosity among brethren, formed for love, peace and unity? The Father of Spirits, in whose hands are all our actions, thoughts and designs, alone can say why Such things are, to his dispensations, be they what they may, I am ever resigned. — I hope at my return to find my very worthy friend and family in perfect

  245
fel health, a blessing above all price, for what advantage hath the Prince
over the poorest cottager when laid upon a sickbed?? is not the costly Surniture, nor the down he stretches
his wearied limbs upon, that can afford him one moment’s ease of body, or peace of mind; the former flows en tirely from the goodness of his Creator, the latter, to have a proper effect, must Spring from his mind alone; from the pleasing conviction of the redfitude of his conduct, and that, while he is sensible of many and great imperfections, he is conscious of having endeavoured, as far as human weakness could, to conquer their evil propensities and tendency, - Such refledlions arising from a Sense of having endeavoured to do our duty while here, will, at the last moments of our existence, outweigh all the splendid titles on the earth j even the possessors
m3
of

of them, at that awful period, feel what
/
trifling empty baubles they have too eagerly Sought, too greatly over valued. Peace and happiness to my friend concludes me.
Most respe£lfuliy his
3ROYLE. SMITH
a <■ «

  ^47
LETTER XXXII
CHARLES MANLEY, EST
O
HENRY VAN HELMONT, ESQ
Brook street^ Grofuenor square.
MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND,
T is with the ereatest Satisfadlion to
rnyself that I can announce the sasc arrival of your father. He came to town yesterday evening, which I had the happiness to learn, by a note he favoured me with from the Hotel in Pall mall. Ordering my carriage thither, I immediately waited upon him,
m4
to
24^
to convey him for the present to my own house, till Such time as he is Suited with Servants, everything beside being provided. Gonfidering the climate he has So many years resided in, and his advance in lise, he appears to enjoy more health and Spirits than could reasonably be expected. He appeared greatly disappointed when I informed him where you was; but Soon reconciled it when he learned the benefit you had received from sea bathing, and the better and more fully to Satisfy him of your pursuits and desires, stepping to my desk, I gave him your last letter to me to peruse. He read it over three Several times; it affected him much : At length, wiping his eyes with the back of his hand, he laid.
CC
My
ratitude
my honourable friend; he would have
been
  249
been utterly unworthy of the distinction shown to him did he not feel it as he ought. This attachment of harry’s, Mr. Manley Said, is the circumstance that pains me, not that I am insensible to the worth of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley, or the charms of their amiable daughter, nor is the Sortune that young Lady may have, however Small it shall happen to be, the least consideration with me. I had, my dear friend, to own the truth, particular and private views of my own to gratisy, that this fatal attachment will utterly destroy. I have been too inconsiderate in my measures. When Harry lest the East, I gave him a Small packet, not to be opened upon any consideration till aster my arrival, or till my decease, should that first have happened. This packet contained the picture of his dear, mother, and Some particulars respecting myself, a Secret to all mankind (yoursels excepted)
Ms
but

^50
but necessary for him ultimately to be acquainted with. You know but too well what induced me to take the steps I did j the Sortune I am now in possess fion of removes every difficulty: I had nothing left to consult but the gratification of my own feelings, and his future happiness: Perhaps I am deservedly punished for my apparent neglect, where So much was due; is So, the will of Heaven be done.”
Your father, my dear Harry, was gratified at the eagerness you expressed to throw yourself at his feet immediately on his arrival; and indeed, when this conversation first was entered upon,
I did expect he would have written to require your immediate attendance; but, to my very great astonishment, he has determined to Set off tomorrow for Scarborough : I shall of course accompany him. The reason he assigns
for
dispose him th
e more
  2^1
for taking this Satigue upon him. So directly after what he has Suffered from a long passage is, his inclination to See miss Hartley and her family, in order that her charms and excellent qualifications may
j ^
readily to meet your V isnes at the expense of his own: And this is a Sacrifice, my dear young friend, very fevr parents are capable of making, and consequently cannot fail to have a due weight with you. On the receipt of this, pleasc to provide, at the best inn in the town, apartments for your father and myself, with stabling for six horses. Upon our arrival I shall dispatch a Ser
Mr
with it.”
I remain, dear Sir,
/
Your affectionate friend.
m6
CHARLES MANLEY.
LETTER
THE tjrgmr MSRCHAM'S’

9
LETTER XXXIII
?ET1R VAN HELMONT, esm
T O
HENRY VAN HELMONT, E£cn
MY DEAR HARRY,
R. Manley, at my request my fels being rather fatigued) has troubled himsels to write to you, acquainting you of my arrival, and my reasons for visiting Scarborough, which renders this entirely unnecessary, were I not apprehensive, if I Sailed to Send a short note in my own handwriting, you might be induced to think me
indisposed,
THE ENULISH MERCHANT. 0.^$
indisposed, which, 1 bless God, is not the case; Sori am, though fatigued, (the consequence of a long passage) perfectly well in other respedls. You will comply with Mr. manley’s desire, respecting providing apartments for that Gentleman, myself and Servants, as I dare say we shall be with you in, less than forty-eight hours after this is received. — Make my compliments, though a stranger, to Mr. and Mrs. Hartley, and their amiable daughter; for So I am disposed to believe her from your attachment and regard.
She must be lovely, both in person and mind, that can engage my harry’s affedhon. I shall not be blind to perfections, even while they thwart mj^ intended designs..
I remain, my dear Harry,
Your affedfionate father;.
p. V helmont;
LETTER
254 the inolish merchant

LETTER XXXIV
Miss CAROLINE HARTLEY,
T O
THE HONOURABLE MRS. SPENCER
DEAR MADAM,
Elm boufe,
T
HE interest you have continued to take in everything that relates to your Caroline, induces me to trouble you with all the particulars that have occurred at elm house, and also at the parsonage, the worthy Doctor and Samily having been Some days returned. My Sormer acquainted you with the Sooting Mr. Van Helmont
had
  255
had in our family, and the great resped and regard my honoured parents entertained for that Gentleman. Some Sew days since he received a letter from a particular friend of his father’s, accompanied with a line or two in his father’s own handwriting; the former to announce his arrival in England, the latter to remove his apprehensions for his health, indicating his intention (instead of Sending for him to town) to pay a visit to Scarborough. these letters were brought him by his Servant one day just after dinner. Begging my parent’s permission, and making me a respectful bow, he broke the Seal.
The contents appearing to affect him highly, my papa expressed his hope, his emotion did not arise from any unpleasant information contained in what he read : — No, my dear Sir, ’* he replied, in accents half broken,
‘‘ it is a contrary sensation that affects
me:
0, ^6
me: My dear, dear father is Safe in England, and oii his way to this place to See his Son, to see his son’s Caroline; learning from my letters to his respedlable friend, my attachment for your amiable daughter, though it appears he had Some private views of his own on that subjest; but being Superior to prejudice, and unwilling to lay the least restraint upon my inclinations, he comes to be convinced, how imposhble it is for youth to behold that lovely form, and the graces that adorn it, without feeling the most disinterested love and regard. The compliment his affection pays to his Son, So Soon after his landing, is expressive of that regard he hath from my childhood honoured me with.”
\
This discourfe of Mr. Van hel mont’s Surprised my honoured parents
O *
  257
ready. After congratulating him on the Safe arrival of his father, and the prospedl: there was of his So Soon embracing him, my papa Said to Mr. Van Helmont, “As I am much better acquainted than yourself with the accommodation the different inns in this neighbourhood afford, I will attend you to the town in order to Secure the most convenient.” He thanked him very politely for his attention to him, when, after taking a Second glass of wine, and wishing the Ladies a pleasant afternoon, they Set off together to complete their intention. This they did much to their Satisfadlion, having provided two very neat roomy chambers on the same floor, and a Spacious parlour, with rooms on the
attic for the Servants.
¥
Settled, my papa leaving his address with the master of the house, and an order to look out for the carriage,
which.
This being all

which, together with the liveries, had been previoussy described, they returned back again. The morning passed over with its usual cheersulness, Save that Some few times my papa appeared more than usually thoughtsul, and was more particular in his inquiries relpedling Mr. Van helmont’s Sather, than he besore had ever been. From this day Mr. Van Helmont went constantly every morning and every asternoon to the inn to make his inquiry, and always directed his Servant to keep pretty much in that quarter of the town, to obierve what carriages might arrive, that he might not lose a minute in throwing himsels at the Seet of his father for his goodness to him. Three days passed over, when young Mr. Van Helmont began to be uneasy at the absence of his father. The time being expired he had allowed himself to arrive
in, when on the fourth morning, just
as

as he had gained the Summit of the hill that commands the town, he observed the Servant that attended him on full Speed towards him: He naturally concluded what occasioned his dispatch. They Soon met, when the Servant announced the arrival of his master’s carriage. A few minutes carried Mr, Van Helmont into the inn yard, when instantly dismounting, he stew into the apartments that had been engaged for their reception, and Sprang into his father's arms, who observing his approach through a fide window that
%
commanded that part of the yard, had risen from his chair to meet him. The
first moments of joy by degrees subsiding,
my lover paid all due respe<5t to his father’s'^friend, for the kind attention paid to his father, and for the additional honour conferred upon himself, in the trouble he had given himself, to come So far upon his account.
a6o
count. This naturally led to the purpose of their journey : Mr. Van hel mont, Sen. was then made acquainted with everything respedling Mr. Hartley, his Lady, and daughter, that his Son considered as necessary, declaring, at the Same time, that he Solicited his father’s Sandipn, it gave him inexpres fible concern to find (from an allusion in Mr, manley’s letter) that he had formed in his own mind a different
connexion.
His father acknowledged
he had for Some years entertained a desire to complete a certain wish, very dear to him; • but then it was dependant upon circumstances, not entirely within his immediate reach, or even power to affect j that on that account, joined to his wish to render him happy as it was possible to make him; he had troubled his worthy friend, Mr. man lay, to accompany him So far j that hey wguld take one day’s rest from
the
  26l
the fatigue of the journey, and on the following day, with Mr. hartley’s permission, I will do myself the pleasure to pay my personal relpedls to him, when your happiness, my dear Harry, will be the only object I shall keep in view. He now, for a Second time, embraced his Son, who had dissolved in tears at this fresh instance of his father’s affection and regard. After having drank chocolate, my Harry proposed the sending the Servant to my father’s, to acquaint him with the reason that detained him, and his intention to have the honour of drinking tea with us in the afternoon. This was immediately acceded to by both Gentlemen; my parents shared in my lover’s happiness, nor was my mind a little affected on the occafipn. At the appointed time Mr. Van Helmont
came,, and delivered the reshedlful
\
compliments of his father, concluding
with
2
262
with his intention to ride over in the morning, which I thought appeared to afford my parents the highest satis fadlion. Harry had engaged to return before dush, in order to Spend the evening with his father and Mr. man lay. We Ipent an hour aster tea very agreeably, chiefly in discourfing upon the happy arrival of Mr. Van hel mont from abroad, and his Solicitude for his son’s happiness, in coming So far immediately after his landing. This topic engaged us So insenfibly, that my lover, looking at his watch, declared he had over staid his time; but observed he had two pleas to offer in exciise — the charms of his mistress, and the agreeable conversation and company of her parents; but that now he should return to his father, and that truly respedable friend, Mr. Manse who had So kindly attended him. Saying this, he took his leave. He
had
  a6j
had no Sooner departed than my dear father instantly turned pale, and exclaiming, It must be Su, ” Sunk down in his chair. My dear mother stew to his assistance; I trembled every limb, though unconscious of the cause of my dear father’s distress. I poured immediately out a glass of Ip ring water, and carried it to him, which he drank, and appeared much better
He now Said to my dear mother:
"I Scarce know why, my dear j but the last words of Mr. Van Helmont affe<9: s me greatly. With his father’s name he added that of a Gentleman (if the same he means) who once was my most respedled friend. I know too much, to know no more j therefore,
4
as there is little or no night from the moon, being just at the full, I am determined to take my horse, and endeavour to get a Sight unobserved, if I
can.
264
can, of Mr. Van helmont’s friend, in order to satissy my mind; for, indeed, when I have Sometimes considered the features of this young Gentleman, I have been unaccountably interested, but am infinitely more So now, ’"
The Servant now bringing his horse, after affedlionately embracing my mother and mysels, he took his leave. My dear mother was unable to account for the state of my father’s mindi tho’ she knew he must be greatly interested, whatever were the motives that induced it. My dear mother had just rung and ordered candles, for we had been muling upon this subject, and enjoying the Solemn stillness of the evening, by the pale glare of the fire. The Servant bringing candles, placed them on
the sideboard, in order to keep them farther from the air, while he shut the windows to, which he was in the al
of
  265
of doing, when hearing the Sound of horscs feet, he mentioned the Same to his mistress. This circumstance Surprised us both no little; when presently a carriage and four horses drove into the yard, attended by two Servants, the one leading my papa’s horse. — This increased the surprisc that now began to Seize my dear mother very powerfully. She fievr into the adjoining room, the better to wait the event, and to compose herself. I immediately followed her, when I heard my dear father embracing the strangers, and welcoming them to his house. He then inquired for my mother, and being told where she was, he stew to her, and catching her fondly in his arms, exclaimed :
“My Spirits were not affected without cause : Oh! my love, I have found my Harry, my long lost Harry,
VOL, II
N
my
266
Good
my dear, still dear, brother.’
Heaven Support me!” exclaimed my mother, and Sunk down upon the couch;
though Scarce able to stand, or even conscious of vdiat I did, I fley to the bell, rang for the Servant, and orocured the aid of hartshorn. I mixed a little wine and water ready against she should recover, which at length she did.”
Oh! my dear, ” my dear parent exclaimed; “Mr.van helmont’s father, is my long lost brother.” — She trembled, and I could Scarcely stand, though I made shift to give her the wine. She drank a little, and made me drink the rest, which I did, for I was exceedingly faint; indeed, nothing Supported me but my apprehension for my mother. composed we prepared to return to the parlour, my father Supporting my mother, myself following behind,
'My
After being a little
  267
My uncle very affedlionately embraced my dear mother, while Harry came to my ashstance, and called me his adorable Caroline, his lovely amiable cousin, while Mr. Manley, maintaining that character which has always So eminently distinguished him, Soothed the agitated Spirits of his deeply affected friends, and shared very feelingly in their distress. I now learned from my dear cousin, Harry wilson, no longer Van Helmont) what passed at the inn upon my father’s arrival there. He ordered the waiter to show him into a room, and to bring him a pint of Pbrt wine. This was immediately done. This room happened to be the next to that which his brother and friends were Seated in. From their dis course, which was pretty distin(5lly heard, he was Soon convinced of the interest he had in their conversation. Unable to contain hiraself any longer,
N 2
he
26-8
lie rang the bell: the waiter made his
appearance, when taking from the chain of his watch bis Sarnily arms and crest, he wrote a card to Mr. Van Helmont, jun. begging the favour oshis company for five minutes. This note, Ib unex pedledly delivered, occasioned a very
scnsible emotion in my cousin, which my uncle perceiving, desired to be acquainted with the contents. Harry handed the note he had just received to his Sather, when he instantly exclaimed :
“Protect me. Heaven! what do I See? This is my brother’s writing! and this our family arms!”
He now rose instantly from his chair, and Sollowing the waiter entered the room. Surprised above all measure at what he heard, Mr. Manley and him sels prepared to Sollow, and when they
entered.
  269
entered, Sound his Sather and uncle locked in each other’s arms, though both had Sell upon their knees. It Seemed the shock his dear Sather received w’as So great, he had not power to Support himlels; and his uncle, utterly unable to assist him, had Sunk upon his shoulder, calling him his dear long lost Harry, while my uncle was entreating his sorgiveness Scr his inconsiderate, unhappy conduct j with the ashstance of Mr. Manley they were both raised, when a stood of tears relieved them greatly. After Some little time my Sather proposed returning home; but this he would not do without my uncle and his respectable friend, Mr. Manley, who, with his usual Seeling and good nature, readily assented to his wishes; what pasted Since my dear Caroline is no stranger to. The evening, my dear Mrs. Spencer, passed over in a very affecting manner; my
Nj
uncle
r
270 THE E'J4CLISH MERCHANT.
uncle repeatingly entreating the for giveness of my parents, and they as tenderly and affedtionarely, declaring every painsul idea was obliterated from their minds in the happiness of recovcrino; a lost brother, and in the union of their children. My dear uncle now rose, and very affectionately embraced me, iayinm
/
As I have, my lovely niece, been the occasion of So much distress to your parents, to the best, to the kindest of brothers, my Harry must restore his father to their regard.’^
My father now rose, when embracing his brother, he Said, “t00 many respectable well-meaning characters, my dear Lrother, have Split on those rocks that ship wrecked your fortune, who, with the best and fairest intentions, from embarking too deeply, have experienced
the
  2'] I
the Sad vicissitudes of So desperate a game. Were it possible for youth to have the experience of age; did they confider the ample field for the acquirement of wealth that commerce, in every quarter of the globe, holds forth to Such as steadily pursue their course, without material deviation, much misery
would be avoided, what under
%
Heaven (pardon me, my dear Harry, for I have long Since lost every sensa tion, vv'ith respeft to yourself, but my
concern) can or ought to induce the
«
merchant, who blessed with ample fortune and respectable connexions, to lose sight of his only proper interest, the regular channel of trade; where, if fortune
doth not stow quite So Sast upon him as he may wish and desire, she Seldom
fails in the end to reward his care and application, by enabling him, in the evening of life, to retire from the busy, active Scene, to enjoy, in his retreat.
n4
that
272
that ease and respecst, that So relpeda ble a character as the Btdtifts Merchant can never Sail to incite in the bosom of every man, who Seels as he ought for the dignity and happiness of his country. Commerce in every country, which courts and cultivates her Savours, expands her flowing Sails, and liberally rewards the bold adventurer, who exploring every corner of the earth, brings to his native clime those treasures that enrich himself, and bless the million; and in what country under Heaven is she more Seduloufly courted than in this happy ifle? where the Spirit of enterprise keeps pace with the accumulation of wealth, the necessary conse quence osearly industry and application; therefore leaving our Sister, butdistra6led, kingdom, to the suh enjoyment of their imaginary Schemes, founded in fraud, and Supported by murder, violence and
rapine; foetus, under the olive branch
of
  273
of a well regulated System, by an in.
.
crease of our commerce, e deavour, while we individually enrich ourselves to Support that Government, that while it constitutes the happiness of a great nation, is the admiration (even with all its imperfedions) of Surrounding kingdoms; what strudlure under Heaven, the work of human powers, however perfect and complete in the original, but must, from time, receive Some violent, shocks and assaults, that to common observers Seesti to require repairs? Grant this u be in Some degree the case, in order to meet the idea of this age for reform, yet would any honest, sensible man intrust this work to any but the most ssdlful and judh cious? Certainly not — that respedtable body of men, the British, merchants, will never be induced by the most ipe cious, plausible arguments that can be urged, to assist with their influence the
n5
raising
274
raising a Scaffold to repair that edifice that is' at once their greatest Security and boast. My dear brother and Mr. Manley will excuse this short digression from my Sormer topic, as it results purely from the interest I take in the
prosperity and happiness of my country.”
Supper now was introduced, which put a period, for tke present, to all further conversation. The fatigue the travellers had undergone, together with the agitation of spirits, all the parties had more or Id's Sustained, made it necesfary to retire early to rest; taking an affectionate leave each of the other
we Separated for the night.
In the
morning all parties appeared much refreshed and composed; What had happened at Elm house Soon found its way to the parsonage j we received tfie congratulations of the worthy Doctor,
  275
tor, his excellent Lady, and truly amiable daughters, with those of Mr. some merville, and his friend Sir George Bingley, who had accompanied that Samily into the country, at the particular requcst osmr. Sommerville, made to Mr. Smith. This was the easier obtained, as his uncle, Lord Villers, had been Mr, smith’s very kind Shend while at College; So that I entertain very little doubt that the lovely Polly will shortly be as happy, as So much beauty, good sense, an excellence of dispofi tion eminently merits. This day was chiefly taken up bymr.wilson’s relating to my honoured parents what steps he took aster quitting England. His first' lady’s uncle was a rich biirgo master at Amsterdam; tohim, taking his infant Son with him, he instantly repaired, and received a very affectionate reception,, attended withsome fewstridlure supoi; the fatal tendency osadventuring too deeply
n6
m
great interest
e
276
in Such peculations. these observations, my uncle could not but admit, the consequences So immediately present to his view; the and influence that Mynheer Van Graaffe had with the leading powers at home, were employed to Secure to my unci a Seat in the precedency at Batavia, which was almost immediately effected, and every proper measure taken for his establishment. The scason for the company’s ships Sailing arriving, he embarked, and reached, without
\
any material incident the place of his destination, and, aster producing the necessary vouchers, was admitted to the rank appointed him. Some few years after, the Chief of the Council dying, he married the widow, whose fortune exceeded eighty thousand pounds. She stirvived her former husband only three years, when, by the
decease of Some, and the return of
6, others,

Others, his Seniors, he acquired the prc fidential chair, which he had enjoyed Sull ten years previous to his quitting
it on his retiring; that the whole cs
#
his Sortune, in the English and Dutch Sunds, exceeded three hundred thousand pounds and, though I never can, ” he Said, while rising from his
Suf
Seat to embrace his brother, ‘ ficiently atone for the injury and distress 1 have occasioned, you must permit me the heart selt Satisfaction to divide that Sum in equal moities between yourself and me.”
This instance of my uncle’s honour and affeflion for my father, very senfi bly affe<5led every person present.
My dear father rose, and pressed him to his bosom, saying— — this moment of his fraternal regard, amply compensated for all the distress his former mistakes had occasioned.”
\
278
My uncle now continued The only objection I had to my harry’s engagement with miss Hartley, was,, that it coimteradled my plan with re spedl to my niece: I ever flattered myself that I should one day live to return, and repair, by their union (at least as Sar as I could) that ruin I had brought upon the kindest of brothers.. I little thought that his lovely caroline was the identical charmer it was my intention to discover. I mean to pur chaseaseatin Some healthy county, and to give my lovely niece fifty thousand pounds, to present a moiety of it as her dower to my Harry, on her wedding day; the other moiety to be fettled on herself in trust for her own Separate use; myself allowing Harry, from the residue of my fortune, two thousand pounds per annum; leaving to my dear brother and Sister the free exercise of their pleasure with respedt
2 to
  279
to the Sum, I intend immediately to
t
transser.”
This noble but becoming conduct of my uncle’s lest not a dry eye in the room. My dear mother tenderly embraced him, and declared his generous conduct should bury all her Sorrows in oblivion.
My uncle now rose, and approached my Seat, when, taking my hand, he led me towards my dear mother. Saying,.
It remains with you, my ever kind Sister, to complete my wishes, respecting my lovely niece; let Some day in the ensuing vv^eek unite my lovely niece with my Harry, and let him now receive her hand, as a presage of his Suture bliss.”
My mother, in compliance with the wish of my uncle, rose from her Seat,
when
a80
when ili ry Springing up, threw him seis at her feet. She gently raised him,
A
when pressing both of us to her maternal bosom, placing my hand in my coufin’s, file Said r
Heaven bless my Caroline and her intended husband, my very dear nephew (dear to Mr. wilson and myself, before we knew his claim to our regard) be they ever happy.”
My dear father now embraced us in. a very affedlionate manner,; when Mr. Manley begged to be permitted to share im the general joy of my family. He approached me with Such evident respedt and regard, that I was Senfibly affected by it„ when Saluting me, he Said : — “Suffer me, amiable young Lady, to join my congratulations, and very sincere wishes to those of your truly rcspedable family 3 to their worth
I
  I
I have long been no stranger, and confident I am, my dear young friend cannot fail to experience the highest state of human bliist, in the possession of Such loveiiness, blended, as it evidently is, with all the graces that can
adorn the Semale character.” a most respedisul courtfey, I begged to be permitted, for the present, toretirci this I did. My mother Soon came up to my room, and embracing me, Said:
Making
‘‘ Has my dear daughter any objection to this day week? The worthy dol: or, and his Lady and Daughters, are now here, attended with Mr. some merville^nd Sir George Bingley; that day is appointed (as that Lady insorms
me) to unite the Sormer Gentleman to the lovely Lucy, and I own I wish the Same day may give my Caroline to her Henry.”
Accustomed
2.h2
THS  ,
‘‘ Accustomed as i have been, my dear Madam, to respedt your wishes, what must I answer? I replied; on the eve of commencing my own mistress,
let me to the lasc evince those Sentiments of duty and regard that I have ever Selt, by obeying you in this. Your wishes, my honoured Madam, shall be mine; this day wtek shall be
the happy day, that shall join my fate to that of my deserving henry’s.” ’
My dear mother, calling me her excellent Caroline returned into the parlour. I have since learned she acquainted the company with my havin yielded to her wishes: After compesing my Spirits, in the best manner I could, I joined our common friends, when I received the congratulations of all the company on the arrival of my uncle, and my intended union.
I

8 7
I made the best acknowledgments I
O
could, for the interest they were pleased to take in my happiness, when we Soon Separated.
At length the morning that wajs to decide your caroline’s Suture happiness arrived, at the appointed hour we all met at the parsonage house; mv dear
O * a
mother, myielf, m.d. Mr. wilson, went
first in Mr. manley’s carriage, which
immediately returned for my Sather, my uncle, and Mr. Manley. We Sound the lovely Lucy, and her equally lovely
lister, with Mr. Sommerville and Sir
\
George Bingley, together with the worthy Doctor and his Lady, waiting our coming. The distance to the church was So short, it was proposed to walk there, and have Mr. Manley
and Mr. smith’s carriage to back.
carry us
This
284
This point Setded, Mr. Smith taking me by the hand, led me to Mr. Wii son, and then giving the lovely lucy’s hand to Mr. Sommerville, we proceeded. The ceremony was persormed by himself, with all that seriousness becoming the Solemnity of the occasion, which being ended, we received the congratulations of our Several families and friends. The company, as had been previoussy Settled between our parents, and expressly So at the desire of my uncle, returned to elm house, where every elegance that the season afforded had been amply provided, and Mr. Scott, my dear father’s faithful feeling friend, was introduced (even in Spite of himself) for his compliance pained his sensibility; but my father conquered his reludance by observing,
that the grateful, noble Sentiments of his mind abundantly compensated for any
deficiency
The   285.
deficiency in his education, the advantages of which the villainous conduct of a detestable character had deprived him of.”
He was received, as he deserved, with all the resped imaginable; and ray dear uncle, who till now was an entire stranger to what formerly had occurred, treated him with the highest resped and regard, declaring he Was almost Sorry he had acquired a fortune, as it prevented him the Satis sadtion of rewarding Such unparrallel’d gene roll tithe
day passed over with all that delicacy and sentiment which are the inseparable companions of modesty, good sense, and virtue.
And now, having brought my
lovely Mrs. Spencer acquainted with
my
286
my dearest friends, I have only to ex press my wish, that our regard and respect may produce that intimacy between us, that will never fail to constitute So great a share of the happiness of.
Her truly affedlionate.
CAROLINE WILSON.
FINIS.
/
PUBLICATIONS, PRINTED AT THE
inerhai'iptcf^f
ORWELL MANOR,
In 3 Vols. izmo
Price gs./e‘wed,
MADELINE,
OF t»y

CASTLE OF MONTGOMERY,
In 3 vols. lamo
Price 9^. fenued

V ^ V; •*■; •', ' /;

■<: -

JUST PUBLISHED.
PHANTOMS OF THE CLOISTER 5
oa
MYSTERIOUS MANUSCRIPT,
IN THREE VOLUMES,
Price gs.fe^ed.
. MYSTERIES ELUCIDATED,
Dedicated to her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales ^
IN THREE VOLUMES
Price 9/. seed.
V



1 S
'tit I
T
f G
V V
t..
^*‘^'sfrfiii<nir ^*i~ili"fcir'i^'r^'>littriri ^ i^in' - ^r*l#il ^ : *
. f’. ^fc _
