T H E 
HISTORY 
■m 
OF 
ELIZA MUSGROVE. 
IN TWO VOLUMES. 
« 
S 
VOL. I. 
t 
DUBLIN; 
Printed for H. Saunders, W. Sleater 
D. Chamberlaine, J. Potts, and J. Williams. 
MDCCLXXT 
eo €*3 
OQOZ «9«» MI cdoo 00c5 t' QOOS «00* ■|5< c000<|^0«00 
)h)sk ^ 
cooo 0000 *§» cooo 0000^9^^0000 COOO «!|2» cooo ^00o cooo 
L E T T E R I. 
sr Edward Selwyn 
TO 
V 
Frederic Selwyn, 
I 
T is even So, my Frederic — g j ^ disease, by its unexpedled visit 
at Mrs. muigrove’s, has ex »l torted the Secret from me; and 
I again repeat, it was her lovely granddaughter, not the village, however de lightsul its situation or valuable its inhabitants, that I have Ib long preserred to all your boasted world. 
I own it has been at all times astonishing to me, that you, who are a fellow of the nicest dilcernment on most occasion, 
, not be able to distinguish between stupidity and a Softer cause— — as you accompanied me down on my 
A 2 exchan 
• ■> 
4 L L T T E R I. 
exchanging Eton for this little Ipot, and Spent one happy day with both the ladies; but I beg your pardon; Eliza, tho’ per sedly charming, was then only twelve years old — and your honour Sull twice that term, consequently it was beneath your dignity to bestow much attention on the child, notwithstanding the gld lady’s countenance, where peace and benevolence are So abundantly conspicuous, rhade a due impression on your sensibility. 
It is with this Samily (with the addition of one Sair neighbour) that Harry Hindley and mysels have contrived to Spend the chies of our time; with them we contemplated the opening beauties of the East, and confessed the milder graces of the evening ray — in a word, no elegance, wit or vivacity were wanting to gratify the lively wish, or harmonise 
the Soul, 
these were the kind of circumstances under which your idle raillery attacked me; you cannot therefore be Surprised at its producing no other effect than contempt for the author — turned of two and twenty, and a stranger to the polite follies 
of the age — a terrible reproach truly 
when 
4 
\ 
LETTERS. s 
when in possession of every rational, every eligible enjoyment, by my continuance in the country. 
I have nevertheless been only Seeding • a stame that will at length Seed on me — Harry hindley’s heart is equally Subdued by this divinity; nor can my tender. Sentiments be once revealed without for feiting his friendship and wounding his = 
. repose. 
You are no stranger to harry’s perfections (from my description I mean) either perlbnal or mental; he has indeed by much the advantage of his friend — but whilst I feel and acknowledge the justness and propriety of the young lady’s taste, in her too obvious preference of him to all her male acquaintance, I cannot Secure myself from the most poignant mortification, 
I have had Several opportunities of Soliciting her favour — but if I had been capable of waving all regard for harry’s peace, I should have found myself utterly at a loss for proper language — there is a strange aukwardness in disciosing the 
deep selt attachment -- but above all 
things (Sori will not attempt to palliate) 
B 3 the 
6 L E T T E R I. 
the conviction that I was not the many clung dole to my bosom, in Ipite of all ipy most resolute efforts. 
Should Mrs. Mufgrove be taken off, I doubt not but the unsortunate con Sequence would be the removal of Eliza to London, where she would be at once beyond the reach both of the wretched Harry and mysels — there is not, there cannot be So amiable and accomplished a girl in your whole metropolis; nor would I wish even you, with a less experienced (I snppose I must not call it a hardened) heart, to behold her. 
If she leaves this place I firall not long continue in it — nothing can compensate the loss of her presence — she has ever been the grand animation of the Scene, and the flowers would Saintly bloom the instant she was withdrawn. 
I would immediately on Such an event rnake you a yisit, if my own inclinations vere all I had to consult — but shall I at fast prove mysels devoid of Saith, Si lend ftip. and humanity; and whilst I boldly Seek to confble my own breast, plunge a dagger in my friend’s, r 
• * 
I have 
LETTER I. r 
Shave an old aunt at Buxton — dissipation is all I must have in view, nor be' too nice as to the means — 1 will gcf to that place,, and trust to you the rest as lord hindley’s friend; it is impossible but you must be on a good Sooting with the mus groves; and tho’ you must never Suffer either your eye or imagination to dwell on this charming girl, Sshall expect to be apprized by your pen of every Such: practice in others.' 
Now I am in the most imminent dan ger of becoming the very thing I So much. despiie — a wild inconsiderate young Sellow — I have no affections to bestow — no election to make, and whatever connexion I may be induced to have 
f0 \ ^ 
with the ladies, will at best be merely the amusement of a heavy hour. 
But, Frederic, let this disappointment be productive of ever Such unpleasmg effects in my conduct, take notice, I will not abate you an inch of that duty or resped the being born your uncle entitled me to. 
The early marriage of your mother, and the late birth of your humble Servant, exposed you to a double missortune — the 
A 4 lost 
8 L E T T E R L 
loss of an estate, and the curse of inferiority. All your grandfather’s other boys were lasely disposed of — when in the very decline of his days — lo! I was brought forth to obscure your fair prospects, and deseat your glorious Schemes. T give you your due, however, I must confess you have born the grievance (ever Since my knowledge of it at least) with manly fortitude — fondly clasped your bane in your generous arms, and doted on the mushroom that So unseasonably Sprung up in your way. Yes, that you are a valuable nephew, friend, and companion, I have always granted you — but why will you"' not be uniformly valuable— — intimacy with lord Hindley, and the unworthy opinion you entertain of the' women, are what greatly disturb me — be admonished — what you now call gallantry, in a more Serious hour will assume another name — and prove a Source of endless and unavailing compunction. 
There goes Harry, apprehension and despondenceon his brow — I cannot blame him — nor are all my alarms inserior to his. 
V *■ 
Mulgrove, 
LETTER I. 9 
musgrove, is Same may be relied on, has So narrow and corrupt a Soul, as to be capable of making an actual property of his child, and exposing her to Sale at the first promising market. 
I should like to receive Ibme account of the whole family as Soon as possible, to enable me to form a just judgement of my eliza’s Situation. If I am not deceived in my opinion of the old fellow’s dist position, my title and fortune would be no ill recommendation of your uncle. But, Harry, there is the distress — was he not the friend of my infancy, the first born object of my tender affections — but shall I then fink under the evil, I dare not attempt to redress.? No, Frederic; 
I will (if Mrs. Mulgrove is restored to us) play a more discreet. and polite part. 
Harry has hitherto caught all his impressions from me; for the first Sigh that was breathed for miss musgrove, was breathed by your Edward. Could I with. the Same facility but teach him to make a Second choice — it would be a blessed • piece of finesse — nor is Mils Harley in any degree exceptionable (tho’ this un 
B 5 happy 
io L E T T E R I. 
happy youth, as well as mysels, considers her as a mere latellite in compariibn with our Sweet mistress) — how would I then bend my muscles to an affectation of a passion I could not Seel; and having once fixed him Mils harley’s admirer, reassume my primitive faith, and render us all completely happy. 
I am lenlible how truly ridiculous I must appear to a man of your cast, who proseffes himsels incapable, nay, glories in being of the weakness I am now manifesting — but give me leave to tell you in return — that tho’ there may be a joy in your leis interesting pursuits, it must be a licentious joy; consequently equally delpised by the village Swain, as his Softer concerns by you. 
I an, Frederic, ce. 
Selwyn. 
LET 
# 
[ 1 
LETTER II 
f 
Frederic Selwyn, e/qi 
T o 
is'/r E D W A R D S E L W Y N. 
V 
And nothing less, my good uncle, 
will satissy you, than the characteristics of the musgrove Samily — yet am I asraid, my compliance with your request will be productive of very Small satissadlion to you, as the lines are by no means Savourable to yours, or your harry’s cause. 
mulgrove’s connexions'are gay' and ■ extensive, but for your comsort, he brings but Sew visitants home — declaredly to avoid the restraint his wife’s presence would communicate, where licentiousness pastes for wit, or the forward censures of his upstart children. He drinks, he games, and is quite the debauchee; but is not only tolerated in all his vices and 
impro., 
A 
► 
12 )h E T T E R II 
improprieties to the utter restedtion on the taste of his friends, but absolutely cares led, for being a man of entertaining faculties — and whilst the world will continue this practice, what reformation can be expected!! principles, I believe, either moral or religious, are still unfixed; and So little tenderness, nature, and Sen sibility has fallen to his share, that provided his own purposes are but answer’d — no Sacrifice would be deemed too great in his estimation. He married from the unworthiest of motives — self interestedness and self gratification. The lady’s birth and accomplishments flattered his vanity, her person pleased his eye, while the mild perfedlions of her heart promised him the utmost exultations of tyranny and pride. She yielded herself implicitly to the will of her relations, and has for years endured the most ungenerous treatment without complaint — he boasts that never man was more blessed, tho’ no man on earth ever made Such ill returns for unremitting indulgence as himself. 
His daughter Mary inherits all the graces of her father’s person as well as temper, and it is So natural for us to 
dote 
% 
9 
LETTER IT. 
dote on our own likeness, that you cannot be shrpristd when I tell you, she holds the reins of the whole family. Two little boys and a sweet dispostd girl are wholly at her mercy and command; for she gives what impreshon she pleases of every adfion or object to musgrove’s breast, an unhappy circumstance for your 
Eliza. 
But, Edward, is not your behaviour very extraordinary respedting this young lady — if she had on any occasion acknowledged her preference of Harry to yourself; Silence and Sighing would, I 
grant you, be your only resource -- - 
but as the cast is, how can you be certain of her stntiments — I would bring matters to a fair trial — he should make his application; and if success was not his portion, you might then honestly inquire what you had to trust to. Forgive my prestribing to you, but I have no patience with your chimerical unhap piness. If you can strike out any method of rendering me Serviceable to you, either by pen or perstn, you well know how ready I am to obey your commands 
— if 
% 
14 L E T T E a II 
■ — is not from all that sense of duty you mention, from the Sincerest affection and most lively inclination, for have you not ever Sound me 
I 
Your affectionate 
« 
Selwyn. 
# 
LET 
Ji 
r 
[ >5 T 
*• 
• X ••••»■ 
III 
Miss Musgrove to Miss Harley 
I THANE you, my dear good girl, for your well timed condolance — to dole the eyes of a tender and valuable relation, was a severe and melancholy talk, especially alone and unassisted by that friend who was never besore under a necessity of absenting hcrsels from the village — the neceshty was, however, no lest ill timed than indispensable; and we ought both of us to Submit to it without com plaint. 
I am asraid this missortune will be pro dudfive of many others — So alarming a change in my circumstances, cannot but be Succeeded by as alarming a change in my Situation; for you are very Senstble that my dear grand mamma’s jointure (which devolves to her eldest Ion) though considerable, was but ill proportioned to her generous heart. Was there a dis tress that ever reached her knowledge she 
could 
« 
i6 L E T T E R III 
could resist relieving; or a gries that wag unwept or uncompassioned. by her? 
My dear child, she would frequently Say to me, it will never be in my power to make a proper provision for you — but I will teach you the happy art of being Satisfied with a little — your Sather is a man of fine genius and abilities, and your mother’s fortune will enable him to push himself in life — but his family is large, and he has already exhausted his patrimony as a younger brother — therefore tho’ there is no reason to apprehend your wanting, a provision — there can be no harm in guarding against every possible contingence — and believe me, the girl who has not learned to confine her wishes, and regulate her expenses — and contemplated as well the humble as exalted walks of life, is but ill qualified to make a figure in either the one or the other. My few jewels, plate, and a very Small restrve of money, is all I have to bestow — yet perhaps even thole trifles may give you an uneasy distindion in the house of your father, whenever you may have occasion to return to it — Brothers 
and Sisters will think equality their due 
— on 
LETTER III 17 
- — on which account it must be your busi nefs to conciliate their affecstions by an obstinate perseverance in kindness, let their conduct be what it may — always remembering, that no provocation on their part can excuse your breach of Sisterly propriety; and that envy and conscious inseriority are no unusual concomitants. 
This lesson is now become my only relburce; and it is by a proper observance of it alone, that my little bark can Sail with any tolerable Security. My brothers and Sisters are almost entire strangers to. me in every particular — I have indeed been brought up with the tenderest impressions of them, but what I have to expect at their hands is altogether uncertain; yet the being the eldest of all my • sather’s children, I should imagine, my Harley, could not Sail to give me Some consideration — and the rest will in great measure depend on my own behaviour. My mother’s dilpofition I know to be Sar from exceptionable — bear sost, my pen — for is it not my other parent 1 would arraign — we will, we ought to leave all ft these things in the bosom of futurity, nor 
presump 
i8 LETTER III 
preslimptuoussy rend them Forth bssorc 
their time. 
I have but one real difficulty to contend with — Our friend Harry Hindley is now one and twenty, and has too much thrown off the boy, _ to be any longer, indulged in all those pleasing Samiliarities he So late enjoyed. The parting Scene, how shall I Support it — lise itsels is less precious in my estimation than his most agreeable company. What value can I then let upon his esteem and friendship, 
'— to be Separated, to be Sorgot, to never lee him more: — are not these lines truly severe 
Lord Hindley is indeed, an mtimate of my father’s — but Harry is too unsor* tunate a Son, to claim any toleration on that account. He could, not visit me, however prompted by. inclination; nor if even that was practicable, would it be possible for the peculiarity of his attention to escape the observation of my relations — he has. nothing to recommend him to the approbation of age and experience — for there, there, my Harley, would that finished form, that inexpressibly 
». 
(9 
% 
LETTER III 19 
bly meritorious mind, plead with little success — it is Sortune alone that captivates — Yet be it So — I shall then be engaged in a very different manner to what I have been accustomed; perhaps have the care of domestic concerns — and may not have leisure to feel what now appears to me an intolerable grievance. I am now in my eighteenth year; and as my beloved grand mama has thought fit to appoint that the discretional period, I ought to give myself consequence, and be an example to all those that are younger than my (elf — and you, my kind girl, will, at your return, infallibly reconcile him to the necessity of my affairs. 
Perhaps it may be best for both, that our friendship should know some bounds — my prolpedis are as little flattering as his — nor must I ever hope to be lady Hindley.. 
It is a double aggravation of all my distresses, that I shall not have the hap piness of Seeing you before I leave the country — but my mother will be down tomorrow;; I fear, another day or 
two 
2: 0 LETTER III 
two will convey me; but I sty the thought,, and will only add, with how much tender affection: I am 
your own 
% 
E LIZ A V 
\ 
t 
% 
% 
r 
L E TI 

4 
I 
« 
[ 21 ] 
LETTER IV 
From the Same to the Same. 
IT is all over, my Harley, and I at a most wretched distance from the happy village. Harry made many efforts to speak to me, but Sir Edward was the unkind and perpetual interruption; nor do I think L shall ever Sorgive him. 
My mother tenderly reproved me for my too apparent reluctance to accompany her; and declared, that is she had Sore seen the alienation of my affediions would have been the consequence of my being brought up from under my paternal root, no consideration on earth should have prevailed on her to have suffered me to quit it. 
Happy perhaps had it been for her poor Eliza, is — but it cannot be recalled, and we must make the best of it. 
The young friends begged leave to Sup with us, or more properly to be permitted to Sit at the supper table — they neither 
22 L E T T E R IV 
there of them eat anything, nor was my appetite over keen — Sir Edward, with an officioulhels that hurt me no less on the recollection, than in the practice, for ever met my eye; and as I had not the confidence to indulge them under his observation, as I could have wished, I fixed them on my plate, in anguish and diffa tisfaciion. 
The next morning brought them again to the hall — my distress was unspeakable— — to complete the whole, when we got into the chariot. Sir Edward contrived to fasten my mother upon his friend, whilst I was compelled to accept his unwelcome hand; and we were Ibon, too Soon, removed beyond the utmost straining of their sight. 
We arrived at hanover fquare only last night, and at a very late hour, a slight accident or two unexpectedly detaining us; and as I was much fatigued, (at least in mind) my good mother insisted on my retiring, after a little refreshment, without waiting my father’s return from a neighbouring tavern, where he happened to be engaged. But notwithstanding I went to bed, repose was what I Sought in 
vain, 
/ 
N 
LETTER IV aj 
vain, until about three in the morning, when I was instantly awaked, and terribly alarmed by a consusion of male voices in the diningroom. 
I hope these midnight revels are not very ushal — but, my dear mother, is you can patiently Support them, well may I — ■ Six and thirty is too early a period for fb fine, Ib amiable a woman to Sink into the grossest neglect— — have done, I have done, my friend, and do you obliterate the daring censure. 
You cannot imagine how my Sisters are improved Since our happy visit to 
them in Lincolnshire patty will nevertheless, 
I believe, be still the Savourite — • she has shch an uncommon share of sweetness and Senstbility; and her attention to her mother is Ib truly amiable. The two boys appear haughty and confident -- -- but there is no Sorming a proper 
judgement, on So short an acquaintance — and I find in all events they are more pitiable than blameable — as too great indulgence will ruin the best turned dispo fition. I am impatient to know if you have Seen anything of Harry, and how he bears my Sudden departure — Friend 
111 ip. 
24 LETTER IV 
ship, like his, I am convinced, cannot be affected— — Seel I am Sure much more than I could wish upon the occasion — though indeed you will not allow me the Sandtioi he assumes, but call my attachment by too sost a name. 
I have promised my listers to present each of them Ibme little ornament out of my colledlion the day I am eighteen, as they will then become my undoubted property, on the strength of which, I flatter myself, the preceding months will pass Smoothly away — Shall I confess to you, my Harley, that I had the mortification to find it necessary in Ibme degree to Sacrifice my interest to my peace and 
what was of tenfold weight with me, preserve the sacred remains of my venerable and indulgent grand mama from the breath of censure and condemnation. 
» You must not, however, judge mary’s 
heart with too much Severity, (for patty’s behaviour is unexceptionable) vanity and ambition have not been peculiarly dealt out to her, but is the portion of us all; tho’ at certain periods they may be Ib entirely Suppressed, as to deceive our friends 
no 
L E T T E R IV 25 
no less than ourselves, into a belief, that they are no part of our composition. 
It would be an infinite advantage to Some of my relations, to converse, to be acquainted, with our Harry Hindley. Has he not been elegantly bred? can any Sentiments be more noble, generous, or tenderly charitable, than thole he is endued with — and are we not very apt to copy our companions — yet it would ill become me, to attempt bringing Such a thing to bear — it is, my dearest girl, in your power, and yours alone, (if a happy shmmons was to draw him to town) to give him a decent plea for introducing himstlf — ■ Ough 11 to wish to be understood — but can 1 deny that a letter from you would be abundantly grateful to me, from any bearer — and particularly — you will pity the folly and weakness 
of your 
Eliza, 
vol. I. B LETI 
26 ] 
L E T T E R V 
Miss Harley to Miss Mu sc rove. 
HOW completely miserable, my dear 
Eliza, has your departure rendered me! Never talk to me of your Harry — what are your harry’s sufferings to mine — his masculine charaoer will enable him to Sollow wheresoever you sty — but I, alas, must yield to the helpiestiiess, the insufficiency of my Sex; and whilst ray heart pants after you and London, remain in the odious Solitude of my ancestors. 
Why have I not expressions adequate 
to my Seelings -- -- -- my stars, the fates, 
what would I not accuse -- -- -- yet you can 
give up your Harley with an offensive phi losophy, and only Sigh ard lament for a silly boy; who, with all his deservings, ought not Surely to have been admitted in competition with Such a friend as I. 
It is a grievous restedlion, that, in all probability, if we could have continued a Sew months longer as we were Situated, 
only 
L E T T E R V 27 
only a Sew days ago, Edward and Harry had been our own. Yet I verily believe, on more mature consideration, it is much better as it is, — for is I have any dilcern ment (and who except yoursels would once dare to call it in question) my Sair friend was the universal deity. 
Harry has a warmth in his nature, that cannot be Ib easily restrained as the more amiable edward’s — but, depend upon it, the one was your open, the other your Secret admirer; and that all that behaviour that gave you So much dilpleasure at parting, claimed, at least, your compass lion ate toleration. 
Believe me, my dear Eliza, the hours we have Spent, the days we have shared, can never be Sufficiently regretted — — It was innocence — the most refined and persedi innocence, that gave the gout to our enjoyments — not one ungentle pas fion to ruffle the Sweet Serenity — not one stern guardian to Srown us into diston tent; but all was harmony, and all was love. 
I suppose you would be very glad, notwithstanding ail my wisdom, is I would quit parade, and come to the point. 
B 2 Well 
28 LETTER V 
Well then, my uncle’s difposition no Sooner permitted, me to return, than the drooping youths presented themselves, the mournsul mementos of my missortunes — 
I would have consoled, I would have rallied them — idle attempt — but I will hastily wipe; away my tears, lest they should .prove contagious. 
Yet, Set your heart at rest; your beloved hindley’s gries is in no danger of destroying him — I grant you it is lively, it is inceisant — it is, indeed, to lay the truth, very little inferior to my own — • but it is unrestrained — O think, if you can, unmoved, of the lover and the friend; how strong, how generous must his conssidls be — but he is born as unfortunate as myself, and will live and die a prey to hopeless affection. 
The arrival of each of your letters was likewise productive of a visit from hind lay; the Sly inquisitive youth, it Seems, Spent half the day at the post house, and was with me by the time I had broke the 
Seals -- the characters, the well known 
characters, the attraction, and a multiplicity of inquiries, the reliilt. 
I was 
'* 
L E T T E R V 29 
I was too good-natured to trifle with him; Sir Edward was not far distant on these occasions; and looked more — yen, much more than your Savourite Spoke; nor was I disinclined to relieve his anxiety — He then, with great humour, laughed at Harry for his undisguifed behaviour, and apparently congratulated himsels, on the command he possessed over his own inclinations — I most Sincerely pitied him, but that is very little to the purpose. 
He has communicated his intention of leaving us this very week, and Harry is resolved to remain as short a time after his friend as possible. 
Now I will tell you the method I mean to pur Sue to Soften this Succession of grievances — I will read, I will write, I will forget them, myself, and you, except when I am called to acknowledge 
how much I am 
your affediionate 
R. Harley. 
% 
B 3 LET[ 
[ ] 
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 
LETTER VI 
iaifs Musgrove, to Miss Harley. 
T AM, my Harley, a very unhappy j. being, nor shall the cause be concealed. 
Notwithstanding my sather’s great endowments, and the Sortune he received with my mother, I have the unhappiness to find his circumstances have been for 
Ibmetimein a declining state and that 
• all the additional Splendour he thought proper to display, was insufficient to hide from the discernment of friendship, the real perplexity he labours under. 
I believe I can already soresee what will be the consequence— — am not now many 
weeks from eighteen -- can I behold the 
itiisery of my Samily, and not endeavour to remove itall I may become post Seffed of shall be theirs, and I will cheer sully stibmit to share my sister’s Sat. 
I shall, I suppose, on the whole, be worth rather more than three thousand 
pounds 
L E T T E R VI 31 
pounds — a Sum that would have amply answered all my humble views — but to live for ourselves alone, was never the intention of Providence — and is charity or generosity vas ever amiably exerted, it must be on Such an occasion as the one besore me. I am quite angry with you, for persisting in your strange opinion respecting Sir Edward — me the impediment, to his approbation of you — dilcard the thought — my disposition is in no degree calculated to his taste — he has understanding, he has great goodness of heart -- -- -- 
but his vivacity, and my gravity, are glaring and irreconcilable contradictions. 
Was there a possibility of awakening him to a sense of his Selicity, I should .never be dissatisfied with the place he holds in your esteem — but depend upon it, my too Sufceptible girl, he will Soon become a general admirer of the Sex; nor once think of fixing (agreeable to the conduo of all Such lively gentlemen) until age or infirmity point out the necessity. Had he harry’s steadiness or principles, I would not thus discourage you. But it is clear to me, that he is that Sort of being, that will be implicitly hurried down the 
B 4 Scream 
32 LETTER VI 
stream oflise, without reflection, const deration, or permanent satissaction. 
Lord Hindley is Srequently at our hoiife, and I assure you, honours your friend with peculiar attention — Did he know a man that he could persuade himselsmeritedme, how warmly would he espouse his interest — can he Sorget how nearly he himsels is allied to the first excellence; or does he only address me in the true courtier style, without either meaning or Sentiment? 
1 have Sormed a design, and yon, my Harley, must pray for its success. To please Lord Hindley, to communicate a Savourable impression of my deservings to his heart, is now my only care;; — have I any reafbn hitherto to repent my toil — He every day Seems to regard me with additional complacence, and to lend 
a more willing ear to all ray prattle -- 1 
have even gone Ib Sar as to mention my 
intimacy with his Son -- and if he has 
much penetration, I doubt not but he will read the rest — how alarming this insatua tion — what rest — what is there for him to read? My Sorward inclinations, and his son’s modest reserve -- — I would, but cannot 
LETTER VI 33 
not Spare myself this mortifying conviction of my indistretion and folly. 
Yet if this lord was disposed to be generous, who can deny that he has it in his power? — Harry has been a great Sufferer by his gaiety and neglect of him; — his iinkindness, his extravagance, may not for ever endure — And wc no fboner become sensible of our injurious condudf than we are anxious to retrieve it. 
Fond foolish girl — would it be a reparation to bestow the hand of poverty upon him; or am I certain, withal the marks of tenderness we have been witness to, that I should be the object of his choice, when permitted to choose at large — There is, my dear, a wide distindfion between the queen of the village, and the beauty of a polite city;. 
H is Lordship has made me a present of Some little trinkets that belonged to harry’s mother — which I am to the last degree both proud and vain of possessing — don’t you think, notwithstanding the great improbability— — looks — but you will Smile at the Silly girl, yet must in the same instant compassionate her. 
Be; I am 
» 
34 LETTER Vl. 
I am fensible I ought to entertain you with very different Subjects— — I See no objects, nor hear any conversation in this new world, that is oshals the consequence to me with thole I have quitted; nor have you the least taste, I am convinced, Sora ddcription of gay assemblies, where all is disguise, dissimulation, folly, and ab shrdity. 
With what pleasure— — to revisit you, to re enjoy the Satisfadiions I have been torn from, will never be the fate 
of your unhappy 
¥ 
Eliza. 
I 
* 
LET 
N 
[ 35 ] 
# 
2 
LETTER VII 
ywi/i Harley to ilt/j Musgeove. 
t 
WELL, my dearest Eliza, you have 
at last contrived to make a won dersul figure in the eyes of yor friend. 
So you are displaying all your fine accomplishments to catch the old hindley’s approbation, in order to obtain an interest. in his Son, — but I can tell you, it requires t ho stipernatural wisdom to soresee a very: contrary, effect. 
His lordship is nofmuch turned offisty; and when you clap his title and Sortune in the opposite Scale to his infirmities, cannot be deemed an ineligible lover — nor would you,; in the charatier. of a mother in law, Sail to shine. 
harry’s> sensibility, is too strong to be trifled with or what charming entertain menti might your Sar setched Scheme have produced — but as the case is, L am obliged, to be no less Silent than the grave. 
Indeed, 
* 
36 LETTER VII 
Indeed, my dear, you must be very cautious what connetftions you Sorm, or you will be the destruction of this young Seilow, who, I am positive, is not hals So sensible of his own existence, as your charms; or would Suffer any blessing to come in competition with your dear, your desirable approbation. 
I have my regrets, my languishments; — for Sir Edward Selwyn is no longer at the village — but I am resolved to turn all my attention to the Supporting and con soling your poor drooping Harry. This Second stroke, my Eliza, has quite undone him; nor is his obdurate Sather to be prevailed upon to allow him to come to London, notwithstanding all the judicious remonstrances of the good old parson, who insists upon it, that it is the greatest injustice both to his pupil and the public, to let him remain any longer in obscurity. 
these Lords are a kind of hard natur’d beings, I think — one would imagine he would be impatient to behold So rising a; genius — but on the contrary -- — hers meanly afraid of being elbowed at places ospolite resort, by So accomplished a youth as all the world would proclaim his Son to 
bp 

LETTER VII 37 
be. Such a disposition I delpile, without the least reserve or mercy. 
Sir Edward is now at Buxton; he mentions both the place and the company with great indifference — I know a lady wliose presence could render it a paradile, nor can I wonder it is tasteless without her. 
, Nothing could be more tender, or nobly interesting, than the last Scene between these young friendsi 
Sir Edward would insist upon harry’s accompanying him to the Wells. My dear boy. Said he, why will you let me find you obstinate in So bad a cause } not my heart, my purse at your command? -- -- nor will the Sormer be capar 
ble of tasting, or the latter of purchasing an enjoyment, without your participation. Did I not imniediately Sollowf you from School, when your Sather thought proper to fix you in the country -- -- and have we ever yet, Srbm the 
first commencement of our friendship, experienced the pangs of Separation— — • not my Sortune Sufficient for both.? — Ought any consideration to be dearer to us than our Selicity.? — ^ — disregarded as you are by the moll astonishing insatua 
tion 
3$ LETTER NIL 
tion in his Lordship -- will you preser 
the natural parent to the saithsui friend 
But all was ineffectual — for whilst the gentle Harry acknowledged himsels as sected, and but ill capable of resisting the united rhetoric of friendship and inclination, he declared himself determined to forget the tyrant, in order to revere the father; and never, on any provocation, renounce the obedience God and nature 
required of him -- -- -- They parted with 
what feelings — lenfibility like yours, can only have an idea. 
I am grieved to hear of your father’s, 
mismanagement -- -- -- and what shall I Say 
to your amiable relblution in his favour? To assist and relieve all that are worthily distressed, is one of the first duties of humanity. But to leave yourself pcnny less, to acl in direct opposition to the will 
of the dead -- -- to see misery gathering 
around you; and instead of sheltering yourself, invite its utmost violence, appears to me to be contrary to every dictate of nature and propriety. 
At least, my Sweet girl, let me prevail on you to reserve a Srnall annuity against an evil hour. I should not 
think 
LETTER VII 39 
think of urging this caution upon you, 
is your notions were leis delicate but 
even in the house of friendship, you would languish under the weight of obligation; and whilst you were merely partaking what could never be enjoyed without you, feed on the bitterness of anguish. Let an annuity therefore be Speedily purchased for you -- and having delivered 
up whatever esse you may be entitlai to, return to that peaceful Ipot from which your mother Ib injudicioufiy conveyed you. I can never forgive myself for not flying home to prevent our long Separation, by convincing that lady how unnecessary it was for you to expose yourself to the brow beatings of a parcel of little unjudging beings — but though the fault, the omission, cannot be recalled, it may be retrieved; and I insist upon it, that Ib proper a compliment is paid to my advice, that one more week at farthest may restore you to she wishes 
of your affectionate 
Harley.' 
LET 
E 43 ]' 
LETTER VIII 
isfyr Musgrove toharley. 
YOLJ'R Salutary, your most judicious advice,, my Harley, reached me too late to be Serviceable — I had, in .a moment of filial apprehension, offered my father all— — with great difficulty prevailed upon him to promise to accept it. 
It is a grating circumstance, my Eliza, cried' he, to be compelled by cruel 
necessity to rob my ehild^ why will 
you enter So tenderly into the distresses of a man, whom thllworld in general is dilposed to condemn for inattention to his family, and freedom of living — — should you. repent' your generossty — you are fensibie of my inability to restore what you are So desirous to Sorego. Consider well the consequences, for be assured, no evil in nature would bear So heavy on the heart of your Sather, as 
the 
LETTER VIII 41 
the brow beatings of his own miserable offspring. 
How was my very Soul Searched by this behaviour — O Sir, Said I, Spare me, 
I beseech you, on this occasion you 
gave me being, and it is alone by your parental indulgence, that I am in a capacity of being Serviceable to you — you have no child that could do lest for you, and it was your own pleasure, that I should recommend myself to my dear grand mamma; or you would have been master of what I am entitled to by a different claim' — only permit me to enjoy the felicity of a paternal roof, and an equivalent portion of. your approbation with my brothers and Sisters; shall I not then be amply reqompenced? 
There is Something great, returned my father, I must confess, in this condia 
of yours, if it is but sincere women 
are often Subjecft to these Softnesses, these starts of heroism — Yet I will not prejudge you— — shall I long be imposed upon — your will must be as pliant, your obedience as exemplary, and your self negle(ft as meritorious on every future demand, as you have now shown them, 
r 
42 LETTER VIII 
or I shall deem you tardy -- -1 stifferno 
one to contend with me — are you equal, think you, to all that may be required of you 
Be assured. Sir, that ycur happiness will at all times be dearer to me than even life itsels — nor can I prove So weak or unworthy as to make a merit of my duty -- -- do you but obliterate the remembrance 
of this day’s transaciion as perfectly From your breast as 1 Shall 
from mine -- -- He pressed ray hand and 
retired : my mother’s tender professions were inexpressibly wounding, but I at length Soothed all her agitations into peace. 
And now, my dear, am I as destitute of every hope or expediation of a pro visson, as if my worthy affedionate grand mamma had been ever So deficient in her care or kindness. But let it go ' — the necessity was irresistible; and if the grave has knowledge of the actions of the living, even the pardon of my indulgent benesadtress must be mine. 
Yet my Situation (I cannot suppjess, the acknowledgment) will never be a happy one — I have neither Sri end nor 
companion 
LETTER VIII 43 
companion in any of my relations, nor the power or opportunity of Seeking them from any other quarter; and my days are past in recollections that have much more of pain than pleasure in them. You must not mistake me, tho’ the iinhappinels I thus lament, is alone produced by the malignity of my Sister mary’s disposition — she governs the family, possesses both her sather’s heart and eat; nor dare my mother indulge the affectionate impulse of her nature, or the Sweet Patty her tenderness, under the malicious eye of this overgrown favourite, for fear of mistepresentation. 
Should anything very unfortunate deprive me of a paternal roof, be ashired, the village is the place I would sty to — I know the generosity of your composition too well not to confide in it; nor will I have So mean an opinion of my own abilities as to conceive myself incapable of being useful in shch a family as yours. Perhaps, my dear girl, our‘ reunion is much nearer than you may imagine; fori have no Small realbn to shlpect that my little Sacrifice will rather amuse than Satisfy my father’s creditors; 
and 
44 LETTER VIII 
and that a still greater calamity is in store Sorus — to aggravate all which, it is vrhis pered, that Some late ill fucceffes at play are on the point of transpiring— — heaven only, knows where it will end. 
I have likewise another alarm that I must'communicate; this miserably mistaken father, has, my dear, a strange Scheming turn,, and I overheard him the other day, lamenting to one of his bottle companions, that all his girls were not marriageable; as he could then dispole of them to the greatest advantage — but a brace or two of years, he added,, (with Some expressions that shock me on the recollection) would blast the flattering peospect,, and render them drug? upon his hands. 
Here I confess Ifeelmystlf vulnerable — •poverty, all the evils of life that are in general the most formidable to a youthful mind, have no terrors, for me when compared with renouncing ray last fond hope of one day — but Spare me, my good Harley,, and let me fly the horrible idea. 
And yet to behold' the too probable, if not actually impending stroke, and 
not 
LETTER VIII 45 
not endeavour to mitigate it, is to avert it should be impracticable, is the height of folly and madness. I will therefore from this hour, begin to prepare myself — and as a most essential step, remember, the name of Hindley must never more fall from our pen — to feed So un promising a flame, is to deservedly incur the punishment of disappointment that would infallibly await it. I need not be told that we are both Sufficiently ill qualified for a life of industry and inconvenience; and I cannot imbibe the extravagant faith, that love alone is a security for matrimonial felicity. 
For me, the lesson of humility is held forth by the hand of reason; nor shall it be held forth in vain — but as Harry is master of many fine accomplishments, and So nearly allied to nobility, he may confidently look forward to better days,. No woman of whatever rank or fortune would be degraded by her election of him, and I now as Sincerely wish the friendship he bears me may never prove an impediment to his advancement, as I was once childishly ambitious oshis being irrevocably attached to me. 
How 
46 LETTER VIII 
How could you rally me So unmercifully on his sather’s account — no, there I believe I am pretty Secure; for as absuist and preposterous as he may have shown liimself on many occasions, the uniting shch glaring ■ contradictions can never 
enter his head. Was he Mr. musgrove’s only Savourite, I should have much Sewer apprehensions — but there is a little million osthem, and who knows what devices they may be capable of? I do think I should stand a brush with them in Such a cause — as to be allowed to preserve my friendship and love inviolate, is the first and last prayer of my dear harley’s 
ever affectionate 
Eliza. 
S 
LET 
/ ^ 
[ ] 
« 
LETTER IX 
» 
From the Same to the Same. 
I FIND, my Harley, that my nerves are much better calculated to lustain disappointment than pleasure — The one communicates a kind of dignity and composure to my Ibul; the other lists me So Sar above mysels, that I am at this moment, incapable of recollection, application or attention. 
Has Harry received no Summons from his Sather to quit the country? has he not already made him acquainted with his generous intentions in his Savour? 
What does he Say to his declaration that he shall be proud of my alliance; nay has he not a wish beyond promoting and effeding it; and has he, my good girl, at last Spoke out as you call it, and answered your expedaiions? My happiness would be insupportable; but for the uncertainty with respect to harry’s 
Sentiments -- should we both have been 
deceived 
V 
48 LETTER IX 
deceived — You have at all times taken upon you to account for his Silence, by the highest compliment to your pooi Eliza. 
“Noble in his nature, and abundantly sensible of his unsavourable prospeds, “he could not have the confidence “truly, to Solicit the attachment of a “woman that deserved an empire. “Thus you would add, does he plead with double eloquence.” I own, his resped, his tenderness, and innumerable iiamelels particulars, gave too just grounds for the stattering construdion. — Yet I again repeat, we may have only imposed on our too easy credulity; and becausewedefired it should be So, actually taken it for granted. 
Eut 1 ought to tell you what has produced this wonderful event — nothing more, my dear, than rny natural, my 
‘due discharge of my duty the little 
Service I have rendered my Samily, by devoting my Small pittance to their convenience and relies, has been magnified by this late formidable lord into the meritorious and the marvellous, and incited him to So unexpected an election. 
Mary 
LETTER IX 4^ 
Mary is in raptures, I suppose from the Single motive of having me removed under the Same roos — for never was one Sister lest kindly difposed towards another than I have Sound her. — - 
My mother’s countenance is very difi 
ferently cast — she knows but little of the 
worthy youth — and all the anxiety of 
maternal tendernest on the approach of 
sh important a change in the condition of 
her child, is most engagingly conspicuous. 
Lord Hindley dined with us the Succeeding day to my sather’s being put in 
possession of my humble treasure__ his 
vivacity Surprised me — Mary and Patty had an engagement, my father and mother Some indispensable bufiness, and I had the honour of entertaining his lord ship for above two hours tete a tete. 
He inquired into all our little rural adventures; and was so agreeably mte*^ rested in whatever concerned his Son, that I was insensibly drawn in to confess my astonishment at hir. permitting him to remain at fb remote a distance. 
I am So well Satisfied, returned he, of my Ion s merit and accomplishments, 
vol. I. C since 
50 LETTER IX 
since he has been capable of recommending himself to your approbation, that if I could believe it would in any degree contribute to render your situation in town more eligible or delightful, I would instantly call him home. 
I was unable to reply as I could have wished — But taking my hand with the familiarity of friendship .and advanced years, he restimed — 
May I be allowed the vanity of construing this Sweet consusion in my son’s favour — rand shall she be dear to your heart, and an alien to his father’s — no, madam, I fear I have rather been to blame in my treatment of him; but hencesorth he shall have no reason to ^ complain— — give me hopes that my family and yours shall one day be united, and you command the fortune of the happy Harry. 
You will not doubt that my answer was as propitious, as the delicacy of my. feelings and circumstances would admit — And So generous was his lordship, that he immediately changed the Subject, and; recalled me to recollection and confidence. 
I 
Am 
LETTER IX 51 
Am I not therefore, my much beloved friend, the best politician— — what a blessed reward have I obtained? — The innocent, the justifiable attack I made on this nobleman’s tender passions, and the propriety of my tonduo: towards my father, have they not worked together for my greatest felicity? — Let no one then hereafter conceive that lelfish nels or illiberal Sentiments will be pro dudlive of good — I have abundant reafbn to rejoice, yet, from my suspenie in one article, cannot So entirely as I ought; do not delay remiting me a faithful account by the very return of the poll, of all that must lb essentially affetst either the happiness or misery of 
«• 
Your affedlionate 
Eliza. 
4 
c2 LET[ 
[ ] 
« 
LETTER X 
SP edward S e L w y n 
.T O 
F R E m E R I C S E L w Y N D; 
Ti S T I not charge you with northeast 
xvjl §l(st, my Frederic, or can you be wholly ignorant of harry’s affairs? — I was returning last night to my aunt’s from an assembly, weighed down by the miserable conviction of the vanity of all amusements in which miss musgrove had no share; when, to my astonishent, Harry clapped me on the shoulder, and entreated we might go into the first house that would admit us, and give him an opportunity of teaching me to congratulate him on a glorious change in his circumstances. 
I with shame confess it, but notwithstanding all the friendship and affection I bear him, my narrow Soul was struck with ^ a kind 
LETTER X 53 
, a kind of prophetic panic despiled, 
I endeavoured to prepare myself for all that might ensue — but you‘never felt the power of love — therefore cannot have the faintest idea of my cruel agitation. The worthy fellow was too much engaged by his own felicity to attend to the contemptible meanness of his nominal friend— — perfectly hugged me with honest raptures on entering a convenient apartment, and revealed what ought to have been the most pleasing as well as unexpected tidings. 
Read, read the contents, (cried he) putting a letter he had received from his father into my hands, and learn henceforth to esteem this once inattentive and unindulgent parent — I do not wonder at your Surprise, your want of credulity — but that will convince you of the amazing truth — his Lordship has not only procured me an honourable and lucrative 
employment -- -- but has been roused by 
Some pitying angel, to invite his child to accept his blessing, his house, and paternal protection— — is this all — his unbounded generosity, his strong lenle of past neglects, have induced him to Select, 
C 3 (and 
54 LETTER X 
(and with the most peculiar Selidty and judgement Seledi) Mils Miilgrove from all her Sex, to reward my filial resignation, Can anything, my Selwyn, be a stronger lesson of morality than this — Providence you find will perform its own work — Had I laboured to obtain the dear pro r mile of this lady’s hand, without consulting the natural claim his Lordship had (if not to fixing) to regulate my choice -- instead of the blessed track now before me, perfiaps stern opposition had reared 
its head, and all the torments of unduti 
* ^ 
fulness, beset my steps. My tender attachment (continued he) has indeed never been communicated to the lovely objecft — •but I have not been idle — have I not engaged her friendship, cultivated her good opinion, and I ssatter myself, gently stole on her affections; and all this most probably in a more effectual degree, than if, I had excluded rnysels from that delightful familiarity with which she treated me, by an abrupt and Sormal declaration — how often have you told me that, in the Simplicity of innocence, you could trace the fondest approbation, and that it was apparent our minds were formed fpr 
each 
•V 
L E T T E Ri X SS 
each Other, however our persons might be disunited. His Lordship gave me three days to prepare for my journey — but what preparation could be necessary — to take a Second Sarewel of my selv/yn, or rather to prevail upon him to give me his company to London, was of more conse c^uence to me than any other considera tien; and I have been so inhuman as to half kill two or three Sets of horses with expedition and impatience. 
What could I Say to him — no distress but that I attempted to describe to you in the instant of'mils miifgrovc’s departure from the village, could bear the least likeness to. it — and as : my, heart, then bursting .to difeharge itself, was checked by harry’s Softer anguish, lb now, the bitter struggle was to avoid intervupting his unusual and, dear bought Satisfaction. 
I Supported myself in the best manner I was able, until the happy hour of retirement delivered me from the dreadful constraint I imposed on myself from principle, from humanity, and personal ten derness. 
You, Frederic, must alone See the involuntary weakness of your wretched 
C 4 friend; 
5^ letter X 
friend; I will give him a few lines to you " — ■render hirn every poshble service for iny Sake raise his joys by, your participation of them; and Sooth his cares (if cares can reach So highly favoured a being) by generous Sympathy — in a word, be everything to him that you are sensible y.dward sejwyn would have proved, isnot incapacitated for ail that is amiable or 
by the Severity of his destiny. When once his happiness is enlured to iim, you shall let me have your company; but I must be informed of every antecedent particular — — — contrive to be witness to Mils mulg^ve’s reception of him don t dilguile an item, though it 
stabs me to the heart — I deserve, I will 
expose myself to the harshest discipline, until I have stibdued the malignity of my nature, and can with sincerity return his 
undissembled affection. 
J am, my dear boy, as usual, your’s, ce. 
Southeast LWYN. 
L E T. 
[ 57 1 
LETTER XI 
# 
Miss musgrove to Miss Harley. 
HOW true, my good girl, is that 
observation, that to be happy beyond a certain degree is to be painsully lb. Your confirmation of all my dearest hopes, your ashirance that there are only a few days between me and beholding the friend of my heart, and the preparations that are actually carrying on in this house for his reception, is too much 
for me. That Lord hindley’s character has hitherto been an unworthy one cannot be disputed, nor that his perlbn is capable of communicating any other than the most unfavourable of impressions — but should I not be a wretch if I was to be affeded by externals, and not give him all the merit his renunciation of his errors and improprieties Ib jiistly entitle him to. He almost makes our family his own, bestows the tenderest, the most endearing epithets on your friend, and 
C 5 omits 
58 LET E R XI 
omits no one evidence of his warmest approbation. 
Several patterns of Silks have already been presented to me; I own, I think them abundantly too precipitate in these 
proceedings; for notwithstanding Harry 
and I have been So long acquainted — it was an acquaintance that had not the least tendency to the Iblemn event they, are Ib busy in promoting. Yet I believe I must not make objedlions — my sather’s circumstances are greatly perplexed, and, my lord has promised to. do him Some Signal services on the union of all our interests. 
We will, my Harley, be inseparable — The too lively Sir Edward, not only recalled, but taught to admire you as you deserve; and you in due time become lady Selwyn. 
I wonder his Lordship should have for > 
born giving his Son at least Some slight : intimation of his intention with reipedt to me — but it is plain his soul is suseeptible, of the finest gratifications; — he concludes > the discovery is of So much consequence as to be capable of producing a pleasmg Scene — and I am afraid propoles being ^ 
v/itnels 
LETTER XL s9 
witness to our first interview— — then how exceedingly I shall rejoice when; it is over. 
We are to go to Bath — bless me how I am agitated; there is Some consufion 
O ' 
below — It must be So, he is arrived — and a Sew minutes only 
s - • 
I will endeavour to write to my dear Harley — but Such a Subjett — Yet I will be composed — Oh have you no Sympathy, no instindive idea of the misery in which I am involved, and from which I cannot ever dare to hope for deliverance 
The noise that occasioned my quitting my pen So abruptly— — — of how different a nature to what I had flattered 
% 
myself — An execution is now in the house — the very beds are in ddiger of being torn from under us; and .it is in my power, and my power only, to avert the impending destrudion of my family — My mother hangs about me in unspeaka ble angiiish — my helpless and innocent, brothers and Sisters list up to me their' 
beseeching 
w 
6o L E T T E R XI 
beseeching eyes — and would my Sather but condestend to fbsten the Sacrifice by 
gentle entreaties, it would be less cruel and insupportable. 
But whither does my frenzy transport me — It can never be — Ah how truly distressing and deplorable is my Situation; five thousand pounds at one sitting — am I not rated rather extravagantly ~my miserable hand is to cancel the deed; and reinstate my Samily in their sorseited affluence, by procuring my father one of the first employments in the law. 
But how shall I declare to you how grossly I have been deluded — Lord hind lay, whole conduct and conversation Seemed to imply So opposite a meaning — he, my Harley, is the man that has not only drawn Mr. Mulgrove into this last exigence, but that has the inhumanity to propose these bitter terms of accommodation. 
I was hastily called down — to meet as I flattered mysels — but no matter — The diningroom was a tremendous spot— — mother near expiring — my father flown to his closet — the grim bailiffs already in the hall; and every child assembled with 
coun 
L E T T E R XI 6i 
countenances that bespoke their too natural apprehensions of being deprived of a paternal roof, and driven out to a mer ciless world with which they had no acquaintance. 
In this instant of universal terror and wretchedness, Lord Hindley made his appearance — My heart bounded at the Sight of him, as the grand redreffer of every grievance — 
He stated himstlf by my mother rather confustdly, and besought her to be comforted, as she was not yet deprived of all means of preservation — How did I adore the Soothing, accents — until with a consternation and anguish that bids defiance to description, I heard him at lengtl> disclose the base views that were couched under all his speciousnessi 
I have, madam, resumed he, long loved your Eliza — and her acceptance of me shalldispel every threateningevil — nay more, I will engage to improve Mr. Muff grove’s condition even beyond what he has ever yet enjoyed ^ and will commit a bond of his for five thousand pounds, 
(now in my pocket) to the flames. 
My 
ft 
4 
oz Lj p 1 X n jk. ali 
/ 
• • • ^ 
mother cast a look upon me (tho’, 
mingled with cqmpaffion) Sufficiently expressive of her wishes — whilst my brother and Sisters beheld me with anxious hope. 
: My child', cried, she, what have you not already done to deliver us from sus sering: — but you find our calamities were only then in their insancy — Can you See us thus and — ^ 
What I would have Said I know not, but my attempt to reply was most effectually deseated by a violent fainting fit, from which I find I w’as recovered with g, reat difficulty — Cruel officiousness— — it was ever successsul 
On opening my eyes, this imp of lucifer’s, this inhuman lord, approached, me, and began to Speak the language of 
sy/eet consoiation -- -- 1 turned my head 
aside— — anguish, my contempr, were equally inexpressible. 
My father too, probably by appointment, at this moment issued from his hiding-place;, and having professed his gratitude for the vissble interest his lord ship took in his misfortunes, was immediately insormed by the callous breasted' 
Mary, 
L E T TER XI 6^ 
Mary, of what she called his noble offer. 
He was traniported at the sound — and without the least previous ceremony caught my hand, and presenting it to his benesador, declared his - happiness would be cheaply purchased. 
With all the detestation I Seel for this" crawling fpedfacle of iniquity, 1 must acknowledge he had the Sensibility to refer himself, to. me for: my. assents — but the tyrant (can I call him by any other name) vehemently Swore that his children were his creatures, and implicitly at his dispo : Sal — nor did he Suffer any will to be consulted in that liouse but his own — adding, that if his Lordship would generoussy accomplish the hopes he had communicated, he might depend on the rest. 
. Everything was accordingly Settled to the felicity of all parties, except that of 
/ 
Your lost 
Eliza. 
*. * * 
LET 
Ol - 
'. 1 
[ 64 ] 
t 
LETTER XII 
Mijs Harley to Mijs Musgrove, 
My Sweet, injured, and oppressed 
girl — what can I Say, what can I do, to give you the con (blat ion you Ib much stand in need of; ^ aster all you have sacrificed— — I too well know the delicacy and generosity. of your dispofi tion to touch upon that string. 
Were you cemposed of common materials, I could whiiper Something to the purpose— — you were born (as I always suspedted from the Sortitude, resignation, and many other persedstons which you sh Superiorly poffess) for great and wonderful trials— — are the ways of Providence self vindicated — nor ought we to be Surprised that where Ib much is given • — much should be required. 
Was the peculiar distress' of the worthy part, of your family oiiuos the quest tion — the way would be plain before you. Have we not repeated proofs of the courage 
LETTER XII 65 
rage of the Sex, when bent on any particular point — tho’ the despicable heroines are in general only flying from certain protection into danger and impropriety — and exchanging the dependance of nature, duty, and tenderness, for the most abject bondage. 
IS we could elope, it should be from a very different motive — To avoid the indignity and weight of chains is one thing, and to purchase them at the most unworthy price, another — But your mother and her helpless children — your own humanity, firmness, and long tried principles, Eliza, must determine you. 
And yet, my much beloved and fatally deserving friend, is there no possibility of redeeming them without losing you — Must then all the graces of your perfbn be blighted by Silent affliction, and the beauties of your disposition obicured by never dying discontent — I am incapable of advising you — nor must I dwell on the too painful subject. 
The wretched Harry -- how have I 
been rendered the innocent instrument of his destrudlion! To have lost you would have been a Sufficient stroke to 
crush 
66 L E T TER XII 
crush him to the grave — but what mad ness and torture will not the blasting of all his high raised hopes be produdiive of? 
You must not meet— — must -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -1 
shall only aggravate your already dread sul Sufferings. And will therefore leave you, however reludantly, to that Sat I tear you cannot, shun. 
1, 
L am, my dear creature;;,,, 
\ 
✓ 
Your truly, lympathising 
R. Harley. 
# 
• •• ' * 
• % 
# 
/ 
0 
d 
t. 
LETS 

f 
« 
< 
9 
m 
* I 
f 
♦ 
... ‘ ' * ' 
<	A>
'[ 6) J 
LETTER XIII 
MILS Musgrove, to MLS Harley. 
fc * 
There is, my, dear,, alas! no 
other remedy — the victim cannot be withheld— — is the dire hour of Sacrifice far distant. 
You are no stranger to the shrivelled, aipedt, contracted limbs, and vicious principles of this cruellest of men. Is there, 'by all accounts, a Solitude Ib Sacred 
as to shelter the innocent from at least, 
^ ■ * * ' • 
his unworthy attempts; or a stew that' has, not, at Some period or other, contributed to his amuiements?, His race ofi 
is however (by his own profellions) terminated — — and all his despicable and illiberal happiness henceforth to centre in your wretched friend. 
Hard and Severe as the talk of delivering myfels up to So preposterous an union; would have been under any circumstances -- what can I Say to its keenest 
aggravation? 
Harry Hindley — had I never Seen his. Sace, or been acquainted with his extraordinary' 
\ 
68 LETTER XIII 
ordinary merit — to be thus removed from even the most remote prolpecl of Selicity — His mother — can you conceive a superior torture or calamity— — behold him, to converse with him — my play scllow, my friend — and in So rigid a character; that approbation alone would be a crime; and tenderness — yet is my whole soul replete with the tenderest approbation. Was it noi; for this communication of my misery, my. heart must burst. 
There are but few things I would hesitate to do to Save my family from ruin ihave no apprehension of death that is in any degree comparable with my apprehensions for their Safety — But it is life, my Harley, that is too much for me to Support, and how long I may linger; an alarming uncertainty! 
Two gentlemen inquire for me — my pen falls from my fingers — the event — I cannot — adieu. * * * 
It is completed — miy father’s point entirely gained — the tears of the whole family wiped away — nor does one mark of wretchedness remain — my heart bleeds for all; and all are Satisfied. 
It 
* 
L E T T E R XIII 6g 
It was Harry and Mr. Selwyn — Never did youth appear to liich advantage — He kissed, he retained my hand — nor had I the relbjution to withdraw it — he was shocked at the paleness and dejedti on in my countenance — Said he had been arrived only ten minutes, and hoped to 
have Sound his Sather at our house -- -- -- 
♦ « 
begged Mr. Selwyn to go in quest of him — and was evidently impatient for an 
opportunity of ashing a thousand tender ' questions. 
Mr. Selwyn perseduy understood, and was about to comply with this request, when thy mother joined us. I perceived she had been weeping, and it was with the utmost difficulty she articulated a message from my lord and my Sather, to 
both the gentlemen, Soliciting their company at a tavern. 
Harry, the charming undone Harry, Smilingly complained of the cruelty of this early Separation; but, added he, if duty was an insufficient incitement with me to filial obedience, gratitude would Silence every rebellious inclination — For I, my dear miss musgrove, (bowing to me with the most graceful Significance) 
have 
yo L E T T E R illl. 
have inexpressible obligations to my father. 
He is gone for ever, exclaimed I, (no longer able to contain mysels than till the carriage drove from the door) nor shall, 
we ever meet again but under the -- -- - 
My mother brushed her handkerchief as if carelessly across her face, Sora pur pose she in vain endeavoured to conceal. Sit down, my love, laid she, and try to compose yourself. 
That you have the power of rendering me everlastingly rniserable, returned I, I cannot but acknowledge — but, my dearest mother must not insult me — O yes, madam, it is no other than instilt to talk to me of composure~you have Seen him, his greatest perfedions are not 
merely corporeal — 
My Eliza, Said my mother, in an accent that awed me into attention; why do you reserve your arguments only for your unhappy mother’s ear Can you conceive me So devoid of nature, of conscience, or humanity, as to be the willing instrument of your infelicity? But though you are dearer to my heart than every self consideration, I cannot forget 
I have 
\ 
letter XIII yi 
I have a husband and Sour other children. Could any Sacrifice of niine answer the desired purpose — these tears, Eliza, my iise, I would exhaust both in Such a cause — But I have only one means in my power and it must be carried into execution — ^ You do not want for Seeling; and at your time of day the consticst will be Severe; let then these Seelings instrudi you to pity me — It is your mother, my child, nay look upon her — the Support of your infancy, the parent of your existence, that thus on her knees implores you to be merciful — You must indeed give up your agreeable lover — but it is her hu( band that will be consigned to the lan guishments of a prison unless you are propitious — You must likewise consent to unite yourself tage and infirmity — but then four innocent persons would by that action be rescued from all the horrors of 
poverty and contempt — O my dearest dear girl. — ■ — 
Why will you not Suffer me to raise you, cried I, (having made repeated efforts without shccess) from So unbefitting a posture — do with me what you think proper -- There 'is no resisting your 
rhetoric 
72 LETTER XIII 
rhetoric — you have melted me down to your will, and I am ready to be dispo sed of, how, and when you please. 
O my Eliza, Said she, Sailing upon my heck, it is I, not your father, that is the tyrant — I have performed one duty — nor will I refuse to discharge another — you are my most tenderly beloved child — • but to have beheld you in the agonies of death itself would not have wrung my soul in any degree comparable to the pangs I have now occasioned you — Yet would to heaven it could stop there — But I have to inform you, that within this hour Lord Hindlcy, your father, and a clergyman, will arrive — and need I Speak what will be expected on your part — the notice is short — the step an abrupt — but his lordship will not Submit to the tedious rounds of iblicitation — And either you must this evening accept him for your husband, or all the miseries that have been Sulpended will be let loose upon us with double aggravation. Ah! I hear them on the stairs — Now, now, my love, remember the Situation you but this moment Saw me reduced to, and be once more yourself to your imagination, 

LETTER XIII 73 
gination, my Harley, I must leave the rest — or Patty shall give you the best description she is capable of — I can no more — my distress — she shall tell you all. 
Lear Madam 
« 
Sister bids me write but how JL vjl linle does she consider the many impediments I have to contend with — can I behold her tears and restrain my own; she that has ever been So tender and generous to us all — indeed,, indeed, I cannot; nor does it become me to east my afflicfted heart; for it is a terrible sin for children to condemn their parents. Yet my Sister, that is goodness itsels, bid me tell you all; do you think, madam, she meant or knew what she Said? IS file did, I need not hesitate a moment; for it cannot be improper on any occasion to Sollow her instructions. 
My Sather (I could almost be So wicked as to call him by another name) entered the room with all the good-humour you can coticeive, attended by Lord Hindley, a clergyman, and one more gentleman. My Sister — had you 
vol. I. D but 
L E T T E R XIII 
but Seen her. Sunk upon the Settee — my mother leaned her cheek gently to hers, (she.is the best of mothers) and whis .pered lomething that. I did not persedlly hear, but it was to entreat her to Support herself in Such a manner, as to avoid incurring her sather’s displeasure. 
I held one of her hands — a cold dew was on. it, .and she was Seized with repeated tremblings — I thought she would have 
died besore uhe cruel gentlemen had 
finished their private conversation. 
The clergyman then demanding (in the ugliest voice I ever heard) which was the • bride, I could no longer contain mysels,; but bursting into tears was sternly rebuked by Mr. Mufgrove, and ' threatened to be turned out of the room. Lord Hindley is certainly a dismal looking creature, as well as the most barba* rousmanon earth -- -- -- 1 would nevertheless 
have married him mysels is 1 had been old enough, to have laved my Sister from the mil’ery she endured. 
But it could not be; and he advanced to have the ceremony performed — The t hand I held was, it Seems, the hand he 
wanted — O Sir, cried I, (not knowing 
what 
S 
LETTER XIII 75 
what I Said) I cannot, cannot part with it — you will kill my Sister, and what will then become of me 
Stand off, blubbering fool, laid my father — why, Mrs. musgrove, was the perverse chit permitted to be present? Young ladies on these occastons want rather lively friends than whimperers at their elbows — it will Soon be over, however, and then they may retire together if they think proper. Remember, Eliza, continued he, (drawing her some ■what aside) now is the test of all your heroics — Am I to Spurn you from me for the mean reptile I described to you, when you Sorced your grandmother’s legacy upon me, or will you justify your claim to my esteem and approbation — Lord Hindley must not be treated indignantly ■ — your mother, your beloved Sniveller (meaning me, madam) are entirely at his mercy, therefore either kindly hasten their destrudtion, or greatly devote your Sweet person for their preservation — A mighty grievance the generality of girls would call what you now labour under — * to be made a lady, and put in poffellion of jewels, equipage, and all that is fiat 
D z tering 
76 LETTER xili. 
tering to a youthsui imagination — let me know your pleastire, for it is high time ' the Solemn farce should be terminated. 
I hope I shall never See Such another Icene; half dead, and with a countenance all anguish and terror, they hurried over the shocking business; and Ihe was (tho’ in no degree consenting) proclaimed Lady Hindley. But can this be right, will not God Almighty be offended with them for their wickedness? to call anybody married, when they are So inhumanly forced to Say after a 
parson as my poor Sister was it is not 
indeed for me to understand these matters, but we are to pray, you know, my dear madam, with our hearts; and ought we not to do everything we call God to witness to with the Same Sincerity P The whole evening was as horrible as the beginning, except with the gentlemen; who were So infensibleas to enjoy them selves over repeated bottles; whilst our utmost endeavours were exercised to keep nay Sister from finking into the grave. 
It is Surely a pity that no other me ihod could be fixed on, for the happy 
deliverance 
LETTER XIII 77 
deliverance of the Samily from the last distress, but the destruction of the most worthy part of it — as to me, I shall never steep nqr eat in peace — I would rather 
have perished than -- but it cannot be 
undone, and I am asraid of having what I write read by my Sister; it is Ib like flattery, tho’ it is only the truth, that I cannot bear she should see it — for you know, madam, it is just as if I Said it to her Sace. 
My Sister is now better and will take the pen; and I hope you will excuse my indifferent persormance; but besides my little practice in writing, my mind is So distressed that I am hardly able to Support rnysels -- Apologies I am nevertheless 
Satisfied cannot be necessary with 
fb good a lady as you, and will only add, that 
I am your humble servant, 
V 
M. Musgrove. 
"D 3 LET[ 
[ 3 
r « 
r 
LETTER XIV 
Hindley to isf; /} Harley. 
YOU will, my dearest Harley, preserve the dire secret of (I must write it) my Sad change of condition; for from wise reasons utterly unknown to me, the stridest Secrecy is for the present to be observed — My countenance, my astlided countenance, will deseat all ^ their Scherhes. 
We are to go to Bath in a Sew days — — that the road to it was but the 
grave! 
I am above measure shocked at the insensibility of all around me, except' poor little Patty and my unhappy mo titer (as she emphatically called herfels.) The latter Still heaves the unavailing Sigh — whilst the sormer’s eyes Speak the ten derest language whenever they do venture to encounter niine; and her little .heart is apparently agitated by compassionate indignation. 
I am 
9 ' 
LETTER XIV 79 
I am never Suffered to be one moment alone, except at hours of retirement. My poor mother (in compliance with the dire<stions of her stern governor) dwells perpetually on the elegance of my lord’s equipage, the magnificence of his Seats, - the fine collection of Samily. jewels with which I am to be presented; and what is daggers to my Soul, the beauty of the gold and Silver stuffs. (those, provided for a purpose— — knov/ my meaning) that are preparing Sot! my wardrobe. 'I'he dreadsul Sounding title is likewise echoed from every quarter — whilst your Eliza Sinks and dies, with horror and despair. 
Yet I must consest, a ray of fatissac tion will Sometimes steal across the gloom 
W 
• -- Mr. Hindley and I (as the natural 
consequences of our last interview were defeated) never were on any other terms than those of infant attachment and gentle friendship. No declaration on his part once belpoke a Softer wish; consequently my bolder Sentiments were never drawn forth — there is only ray mother and yourself that are Senstble of 
D 4 this 
go LET E R XIV 
this my keenest unhappiness— — if I can but Sustain the next meeting of him' 
'wiiith propriety, the victory will be above 
half completed. miserable wretch! 
Is it thy Son thou fighest for? -- Let 
shame and remorse stifle the unnatural affection— — is reverence alone that is now thy due, and the blessing of a parent all that he can hereafter Solicit. 
But Surely his lordship will not be Ib. misjudging as to have him in the Same house — The Son three years the mother’ s senior— — article must strike him, and I can have nothing to fear. 
Tell me, my Harley, and tell me with Sincerity, if you think the involuntary preference my heart bears. this young gentleman will ever be imputed to me as a crime — or how I can possibly erase impressions I Seemed born to receive — that innocence itself could not object to, or the most rigid delicacy condemn. 
Was he not my playfellow, my earliest companion? Did not his Sister enjoin us to transfer the love we bore 
y her 
t 
LETTER XIV 8i 
I 
her to her brother even with her departing breath? — Was he not situated in the Same village for education Did not each shcceeding day furnish us with opportunities of conversing? — Was not his person the most finished in nature? — His dispofition unexceptionably amiable f — He was, my dear girl, in every re ipedl irresistibly engaging — and I was not then his mother, 
Patty shall accompany me to Bath, or wherever elle I may be conveyed. Thirteen years old, tho’ a period for tender fensibility, is not a period for too critical distindtions, lean weep before her, un censured, or avoid the sight of this lord, uncondemned. 
But do not imagine, that now I am actually his wise, however compelled, purchased, or violently seized, that J mean to be unmindful of the duties of my character. 
No, my friend, my dilgust shall (if possible) be converted into civility, my resentment into respect— — if he is capable of treating me kindly — I will e'n ‘ deavour to look on him without shudder 
mg. 
D 5 I know 
32 LETTER XIV 
I know you are shfficiently alive to all the distresses and calamities of your Eliza; but believe me, you can have no adequate idea of her present condition -- 
nor will I attempt to describe it — We ought to mitigate, not aggravate, the evil we cannot shun — And having dis charged the most intolerable weight of my affliciions, I will Set down our correspondence as my only means of amusement or dissipation. * Your breast shall be my consessional — there all my srail ties, my infirmities shall be lodged — and is to think is not guilt — to communicate the unapproved, unbidden, and unencoura^^ thought, can never come under that denomination. You have judgement, - you have sensibility, and a proper sense of female honour — Receive, then, the genuine pictures of my Soul, and view them without partiality — Always remembering, when an unworthy line may strike your Sight, that it is to be expunged without repugnance or mercy. 
f 
Oh! 
^, 
LETTER XIV 83 
Ohf my Harley, nothing can recall this last tremendous wreck, or render me aught than 
% 
Your ruined 
Eliza. 
i 
4 
4 
% 
% 
> 
• i 
• « 
/ 
% 
L E T 
4 
A 
N 
4 
[ 84 1 
LETTER XV 
... / 
■ \ f 
Mr. S E L w Y N 
TO 
Str Edward Selwyn. 
OF all the'talks, my dear Edward, 
you ever imposed on my Sricndship, 
I find mysels at present engaged in the' hardest. It is yonr repeated request — your injundtion, that I should insorm you of whatever relates to miss musgrove — Take theresore my important Suspicions, which I fear are but too well grounded — and bear them like a man. 
Your Harry arrived, blooming as his expectations, and aster we had exchanged just So many words, as to enable us to understand one another, entreated me t o accompany him to Mufgrove^. I had for Some time discovered a mysteriousnels in lord hindlev’fi behaviour — He did. in 
7 
deed, introduce me at his friend’s, but 
was 
♦ 
LETTER XV 85 
Was visibly ill affedted towards my con trading an intirriacy there. 
I thought it was very extraordinary Sora man (naturally ostentatious) to conceal intentions that did him Ib much honour — and yet Lord Hindley was ever dilin clined to make his Son the subject of his conversation, nor on any occasion proclaimed what your letter imported. 
musgrove and his Lordship were both absent; the impatient youth then desired that the young lady might be made ac qiiainted with our visit — she came down — harry’s raptures happily Secured him from too nice observations on her altered countenance — but I was peculiarly alarmi ed by it. Her whole behaviour was constrained and timidly Significant — Now the sost eye of compassion was turned upon Harry, and again the Sound of Sect in the lobby drew it apprehenssvely an opposite way — There is no deferibing it. — But at length the opening door threw her into an actual tremor; which was rather increased than mitigated, by our being Summoned to attend the brace of unnatural fathers at a tavern. 
t 
* ' # 
harry’s 
86 L E T T E R XW 
harry’s worthy confidence and lively gratitude were his protection — it would,, Said he, (as we passed along) have been equally blameable and impolitic to have; delayed complying with this however unwelcome request; as I shall Xo (bon see her again to my utmost satissactiom 
My lord affected to receive him with great cordiality — but be assured, it was only affected; and whenever the youth caught at an opportunity to prosess his gratesul sense of his intended goodness,. always interrupted hnn and changed the 
Subj ect. 
He then told him (slightly apologising for the necessity) that he must get him to take a ride into Kent, upon particular businels; he yielded even to this proposal with astonishing resolution; only resolv ing, as he privately acknowledged to me, to make Somewhat quicker dispatch than his Sather had mentioned. 
I never once Saw his lordship during his absence, The Sixth morning brought him to London; and tho’ awkwardly early Sora vistt, no arguments could prevail upon him to Sorbear attempting at least to see his beloved. 
But 
LETTER XV 87 
But how was he chagrined on finding a coach and Six at the door, and his Sather condudfing the hals dying Sair one into it to be conveyed to Bath! 
Lord Hindley was consused -- -- Poor 
miss musgrove I — Harry was permitted just to kifs her hand; and invited by his tender parent to Sollow them Ib fbon as he was properly invested in his employment. 
Yet notwithstanding all his mortification and regret, he is persedly unsuspi cious of his greatest misfortune. Depend upon it. Sir Edward, this most amiable girl is either already (or on the very point of being) Sacrificed to this barbarian of a lord. 
I would ad vile you to go immediately to Bath, and starch into the affair — 'on Such a contingence, harry’s misery, by being incapable of every Ipecies of alleviation, will claim our united tenderness — sand you may in all relpedts rely on 
Your affectionate 
Selwyn. 
•• 
LET 
• ^ 
. 
\ 
[ } 
4 
LETTER XVI 
/* 
sr Edward Selwyn 
\. 
T O 
/ ■ 
Frederic Selwyn Esq 
T CHARGE you, my dear Frederic, on J[ your lise, to fly the instant you receive this to harry’s Support — Your conjectures were but too just; and a letter of dire information will reach him from miss, Harley, I Sear even besore you can be apprised of it; and is lest to himself, who knows but he may be undone. I feel my affection, my tenderness for him, doubly increased by his missortune. 
Never was a more complete Savage than this lord — He could not but be conscious oshis son’s Sentiments; and I sup pose is now exulting in the success of all his infernal procedings against his peace. What is the employment he has procured for him, when he has at once 
rendered 
LETTER XVI 89 
/ 
rendered him incapable of prosecuting it, or enjoying its emoluments .'' 
But he shall never want a handfbme proviston, whilst the power of providing for him is happily vested in his Seiwyn — I will devote all my future days to his Service; bury myself in obicurity, or range the universe to its utmost bounds, if I can but in any degree restore him to tranquillity — I will — but sty my friend ' — whilst you read thc warm attachment / of my heart; perhaps he may be lost — A greater calamity than which could not befall 
yours, cc. 
E. Selwyn. 
t 
% 
LET 
V 
. ' [ sfr 1 
\ 
LETTER XVII 
F R E DT R J C S E L W Y N, e/q. 
T O' 
Sir E dwarb selw Y N 
1' T is my Sat, Sir Edward, however reludtanr, still to be the messenger of ill news. 
Harry Hindley is not in London, or at least it is not in my power to acquire the knowledge of his situation. 
A Letter from miss Harley was certainly the ibstest j method of breaking the miserable news to him (notwithstanding it is that very letter as his Servants con.. that has occasioned him So unexpectedly to disappear) for my own part, Such was his Security, and the real tenderness I have conceived for him, that I could not have Sustained a personal explanation. 
/ 
Had 
LETTER XVII gt 
Had you prepared me in due time, nothing should have prevented my attendance on him; for with all his persedti ons, he possesses a warmth of difpositi on, that is very liable, on shch provocation, to hurryshim into the most unhappy extravagance. 
What steps can I take — what measures can I pursue, in So great an exigence ?- — I would do everything that was proper — i but I dread doing more — He may be brought into infinite inconvenience if exposed by public inquiry — You must direct my zeal to Serve you — or to be Serviceable may not be in the power of, dear Selwyn, 
Yours, cf. 
Selwyn. 
I 
% 
\ 
4, 
N 
...............LET 
- .*• 
92 ] 
I 
LETTER XVIII 
Str Edward Selwyn 
TO 
Frederic Selwyn, diy; 
r 
The misery, my dear Frederic, is 
all revealed, and our poor friend in safe hands — Never was affliction, resentment, love, and indignation, more. Severely felt by any being. 
You know you Sent your letter express, notwithstanding which, is Harry had not been detained Ibme hours on the road by the breaking down of his chaise, he would have reached me first, and my distrels been doubly in Supportable. 
I made for Bath with all expedition the moment I had perused your alarming intimations; and was not long in discovering their justice and propriety, by she communicativeness of one of my lord’s Servants. All affliction and apprehension, 
lest 
I 
LETTER xvlii. 93 
lest Harry should come to the knowledge gs it in a less prepared way, and truly sensible of the ibst eloquence Mist Harley is mistress of, I entreated her to Spare me the wretched tash of distlofing Ib irreparable a misfortune to the dearest object of my friendly attachment, and in my con fusion forgot to give you due intelligence of my proceedings; a neglect that, whatever was the cause, had the consequence been fatal, would have entailed the most unipeakable misery on all my future days. 
I concluded, Ib Soon as I found he had left London, that I should have a visit from him — and was casting about, for ways and means to convert it into a happy incident — When he burst in upon 
me without the least preparation and 
demanded, in accents that terrified me, where he should find Lord Hindley. 
Here, Said he, here, you may behold the wretched dupe of parental Salssibod 
-- -- 1 was to be amused with fiiam com. 
mffions — the repose both of my body and mind cruelly impaired to execute the 
chimaeras of a doting brain but I will 
110 longer, Selwyn, Submit to Such unmerited 
94 LETTER XVIII 
merited injuries. How was my Ibul deluded by the most unprecedented dissimulation, expanding with gratitude -- 1 
reverenced the man that called himsels my Sather, in the very instant that he was blasting my dearest hopes — Where shall I find him again (exclaimed he) in a kind of frenzy? why do you not in sorm me? I am only come to show him the Sruits of his unnatural industry, and take a last Sarewell of her I have So long loved. 
I besought him to be composed — birt to little purpose — he was dreadsully agitated, and I could only pity him. 
I will See them both, (resumed he) — is it possible to aggravate evils like mine.? 
-- -- O could I but have soreseen this in 
shpportable stroke! Not all the. fiends 
should have parted us -- But tell me 
where they are -- there is nothing to 
apprehend that has not already reached me -- -- - 
Yes (returned I) increasing the wretch edness of her for whom you prosess the most abundant tenderness, What! will you render her a Subject for every costee 
house in town -- make her witness to 
the 
LETTER XVIII 95 
the misery she is incapable of relieving, and perhaps, expose her to the most preposterous censures — Her inclination would undoubtedly have made her yours, but compulsion, the most irresistible compulsion, my Harry, has given her to your father; and -- - 
I have no father (cried he) no friend, my Selwyn, but yoursels — I feel the force of your judicious arguments, and will 
endeavour to -- ^but I am going to the 
East Indies— — .fiiall not once lee her beloved face — I will be perseoly composed, resigned, satisfied— — Satisfied, if this one indulgence is not denied me — I would Speak a Sew words to her — receive the maternal benedidion — shall I have a moment’s interview? 
I don’t See how it is practicable (Said I) your mind is greatly disturbed — you shall continue with me in private, until you have Somewhat recovered yoursels — and then we will try what can be done. 
It shall be done (exclaimed he) I know she is miserable; but as nature Sorbids me striking at his lise — I will relieve myself from the horrible idea in a more es fedual manner. 
He 
^6 LETTER XVIII 
He had now Said Sufficient to chill me with apprehension. What can he mean? What dreadsul purpose is his mind Sraught with.? — I must treat him very tenderly — as opposition would only inflame what is already but too violent. This Lord, this Lord, how much will he have to answer Sori 
at length prevailed on him to take Some breaksast, and was beginning to hope that my taste would be less difficult than I at first apprehended — But he broke out with increased impatience into, Where do they live? and the most Iblemn protestations not to leave Bath without Seeing them. 
I proposed his endeavouring to Sleep a little — But the voice of reason was not the voice he could attend to — he conjured me, by our past friendfliip, not to attempt to de ri/ehim of his only remaining consolation — The recollection of all the felicity v/e had enjoyed now rushed in upon him — he was sostened even to tears and the tenderest lamentations.’ 
My mother (cried he) anything but my mother, and I would have been content. Yet I will live with her, Selwyn, 
and 
LETTER XVIII 97 
and she shall still continue my dearest friend and companion — Will not her kindness amply compensate Lord hind ley’s cruelty.? — I will attend her, for ever attend her — and when she stmiles upon me (as I doubt not but she will) with her uliial sweetness, can I have a Single wish, ungratified — But, Edward, lave me from the killing thought — Must she not also Smile upon that ungenerous old man — I will go to the East-indies, and never behold either of them more. 
This was the very resolution I could 
have wished to inspire him with -- My 
dear Harry, (Said I) you are not at present capable of one permanent relblve — be advised, theresore, and take a day or 
two’s deliberation -- -1 will do everything 
in my power to mitigate your as ssidion — but we must in all events guard against involving the lovely injured girl in additional mortification or inconvenience — I will make it ray busmels to See her at the rooms, where I have more than once had an opportunity of paying my respedis to her; mention your arrival as no unexpected or extraordinary incident — and if she expresses no diffatil 
vol. I. E faction 
p8 LETTER XVIII 
Satflion on the occasion, will myself con du(st you to her. 
He shook me by the hand" -- he is, 
Frederic, a most valuable youth — and all the Support I have in the horrid exigence is, that his destru(5uon has not been derived from 
Yours, See. 
\ 
E. Selwyn. 
9 
LET 
% 
[ 1 
LET TER XIX 
From the Same to the Same. 
TH E post has but this instant lest 
the town, yet I am again at my pen; for your gratification — you must have too much fensibility, Frederic, not to be to the last degree anxious for the concluding particulars of our friend’s rash journey. 
He was sh very earnest with me to inform lady Bindley of his arrival, that I hurried to the rooms to take her on lier 
first entrance -- -- and he promised to 
wait the result with all imaginable path ence. 
She at length appeared, attended only by her Sather and Sister — I was Ibmewhat Surprised, but not in the least alarmed at the absence of her lord. 
She met my eyes with her usual complacence — I made my bow of approach, and as I was not discouraged, ventured to join her; when Mr. musgrove’snume 
E 2 rous 
loo LETTER XIX 
roiis friends gathering round him on the decision of an idle wager, I Soon found myself at liberty to prosecute my intentions. 
I have had an unexpedled visitor with me this morning, Madam, Said I. — She changed countenance; but he is in his riding dress, therefore would not accompany me to this public place, notwithstanding he is impatient to, pay his devoirs to'lady Hindley. 
Can you. Sir, demanded she, (with anguish and. apprehension in her eye) mean my Son? 
Yes, Madam, Harry is now in Bath 
-- -- she Sanned herself, and I was much 
afraid would have fallen from her fiat. 
Why did he not come immediately to us, resumed she, he could not doubt of a good reception, where — She vistbly trembled, and was obliged to leave the Sentence unfinished. 
She then inquired after her son’s health (as she repeatedly called him) and laboured hard to Support the maternal character, until it occurred to her that this too tenderly beloved Ion was the peribn that had prevented Lord hindley’s accompanying % 
I 
LETTER XIX lot 
panying her as nsual -- when neither 
her tenderness nor terror could be concealed. 
I hope, Sir, Said she, my lord and Harry are upon Such terms as will render their meeting agreeable. — 
Madam, exclaim.edi, quite breashless with consternation, meet, who meet.? 
Lord Hindley and his Son, returned she — A gentleman just arrived from London (was the message) desired to See him at the Bear. — 
I must leave you this instant. Madam, all is' not So well as might be wished — This circumstance — The consequence — ^ But I will inquire into it, and Ibon wait on you again. 
She had not been deceived in her conjectures — A waiter acquainted me they had met, were shut up in a private room together for Some time — and that he had observed the old gentleman to quit the house in great diibrder about five minutes besore I came -- But that as the 
young one had not Since rung, he was searstil of being deemed impertinent, or he should have presumed to have looked in upon him, as he owned his curiostty 
E 3 was 
1g2 LETTER XIX 
was rather excited by the extraordst nary behaviour of both the one and the other. 
I approached the door with slow and trembling steps, all was Silent — I hastily threw it open — and had the misery,, my Frederic, to behold the man I most loved extended on the floor; with his Sword, as it appeared to me, quite through his body. 
Harry, unhappy Harry, exclaimed I, raising him in my arms, what have you done? — Ruined yoursels, your friend, and every one that was dear to you. I drew the Sword from his Side, and placing him in a chair, entreated the waiter (who entered with me, and appeared to be a good nalured Sellow) to Setch me a Surgeon with all expedition; and avoid betraying by his behaviour (for Some particular reasons) that any missortune had happened. 
I still stipported the miserable youth; whole drooping head, closed eyes, universal coldness and insensibility, gave me but Small hopes of his recovery. The I'urgeon nevertheless flatters me, that his case is less desperate than I imagine — 
Heaven 
LETTER XIX 103 
Heaven grant it— — leemcd to suspedl a duel; but was in no degree i nquisitive. As for my part, I think as the Sword proves to be his own, the catastrophe may be easily accounted for, 
Lady Hindley — the anxiety I Seel lest she should hear of what he has done is unspeakable— — have taken every precaution in my power: — Seem to have established this desirabie plan of secrecy, but there is no answering for things of this kind, they Soon and; amazingly get air The master of the tavern I believe may be relied on, and if our report gains credit of the gentleman’s being Suddenly taken ill, and we have istccess in conveying him to bed unobserved, it may blow off with tolerable Satisfadlion. 
i myself Sat up with him— — was as composed as could possibly be expected — nor will I ever leave him, until he is either beyond my care,, or no longer stands in need of it. Adieu! Frederic, you will not fail to pity 
your wretched 
Selwyn 
E 4 LET[ 
[ ] 
< i - 
LETTER XX 
^ \ 
From the Same to the Same. 
ff 
WHAT a miserable tash, my Frederic, have I been engaged in, hope and despair alternately rending my heart; the wound was in no degree So dangerous as I apprehended — hut Such were the agitations of his mind, that he was Srequently delirious, and would for Successive hours call upon miss Mufgrove to pity and pardon hisrashness, 
He is now, however, So well recovered as to Sit in his chair, and would this morning give me a description of the Scene between him and his father. 
He had, it Seems, Sormed his whole plan previous to his hurrying me to the rooms; and the instant he found I was out of light, dispatched a Sellow with a message to his lordship, which Soon brought him to the tavern. 
When he beheld his Son, he sternly demanded what had induced him to quit 
town 
N 
LETTER XX 105 
town without leave, especially at So important a period as the establishing himself in the employment Ib recently procured for him. 
I came, Sir, returned Harry, (irritated by this address) to give back the bale, 
the inadequate price of my felicity -- - 
Could you conceive it possible to Silence injuries like mine by so paltry a method? what is a provision where lise itsels is not worth that care? you have robbed me of all that I ever held valuable, and I scorn to join hands with you on any occasion. 
Harry, Harry, answered his lordship, do you know who it is that you are thus insulting? 
Yes, Sir — ^ — you are the man that I have considered and honoured as my Sather — but how little your conduct has corresponded with that endearing cha ra<5ler, the world will bear you witness— — I not buried in oblcnrity, denied the privilege of a paternal roos, and excluded from every, Species of paternal indulgence — until, by Some Satal accident, you discovered it was in your power to effecfl my destruction — when I was called 
E 5 home 
io LETTER XX 
home — amused with the most flattering expedations, deceived, abused, and irreparably undone. 
What can be the meaning of all this, exclrimed his Lordship, (affecting great Surprise) must I believe you inlane 
0 hypocri sy, exclaimed Harry, how ill befitting the hoary head — And would you, Sir, would you meanly insinuate, that what has been lb apparently effected by deliberation, Salshood, and contrivance, was Sounded in ignorance — Would you, can you declare to the wretch now besore you, that you were unapprised of his attachment to miss musgrove, that dear, that lovely Mils Mulgrove, who has been the dreadsul Sacrifice of her father’s villainy, and the miserable purchase of her sarnily’s affluence and tranquillity. 
1 will hear no more, Said his lordship— — by a boy! — • 
Be affnred, Sir, I intend to give you full satissadion for the indignity you complain of — I Seek no redress — O blasting thought! — No redress is in your power — You cannot restore her to my hopes, you cannot recall the Sacred ceremony 
that 
- LET K R XX ig7 
that has deprived me ot every fond delusion— — mother and the bn are irreconcilable distinctions; but whilst despondence and resentment are our portion, the bitterness of remorse cannot fail to find you out. 
So you have the temerity, returned his Lordship, not only to reproach and condemn where you ought to revere; but to profess an attachment that never could have met with my approbation, 
had it even been Solicited — The rebelli 
•, 
ous child Sits in judgement on the uncon troulable father; and whilst he arraigns him of one perhaps ill adviled step, ac vusts himself of the most unpardonable. 
Your heart, my Lord, Said Harry, is much too callous not to defeat the purpose 
of this interview -- 1 would have 
Soothed it into repentance, compassion, and generous consusion — • — I would, by showing you the Sad product of your industry with respect to me, have incited you to Ipare the dearer part of me all further persecution — But it will not be: 
I am Subdued, totally Subdued — To lave her or Serve you is not in my power; I must therefore be content with what is — 
my 
io LETTER XX 
my own deliverance — I forgive you, Sir, I most earnestly recommend my Sweet mother to your mercy; and may she never hear that I have died to avoid the knowledge of her wretchednefi! 
So Saying, he hastily drew his Sword, and Sailing upon it, intended to have expired at the Seet of him (to use his own expressions) that gave him existence only to render him miserable. 
He stems restlved to go abroad — You know the governor of madrass is both his uncle and god sather — Thither I Suppost his unhappy flight will be directed— — - — have my private resolution; burr, Frederic, as it wholly depends upon the uncertainty of harry’s Suture determinations, I need not communicate it to disturb you prematurely. 
All my intercourst with Lady Hindley must now be at an end; for as I have on all occasions been the friend and confidant of the Son, it cannot be expected that the Sather should be over sond of my possessing her ladyship’s ear or approbation. 
It is asto nishing how dexterously the alarming transadion has been hitherto 
hushed 
V 
LETTER XX 109 
hushed Up — The waiter I mentioned to you has, it Seems, an inclination to go abroad; and it is more than hals fettled that Harry shall either take or Send him over in Some little decent capacity; consequently he is effectually secured— — as for the master of the house and the Surgeon, they are too wise to diibblige those that have the power of obliging them. All this tenderness was certainly due to Lady Hindley; for that she loves her fon is too obvious not to point out the fatal impropriety of So melancholy an affair’s reaching her knowledge. 
- You shall hear from me again sh Ibon as anything material occurs, but at present, my time and utmost attention must be devoted entirely to our Harry. 
I am, as usual, 
your Selwyn. 
4 * 
• •• 
L E W 
t 
/ 
[ ] 
LETTER XXI 
Lady Hindley to Miss Harley. 
A FEW days, a very Sew days ago, rny Harley, I believed it impossible for any circumstance to aggravate the misery of my condition — but evils, I am now convinced, can still be multiplied upon my head; and it is still possible for me to feel additional affliction. 
I informed you that Sir Edward sel wyn had more than once paid his compliments to me at the rooms — as alb the distress I experienced on those occasions, from not only being under the necessity of avoiding all conversation respeding our friend, but treating him with unusual coldness and reserve. But the other evening I was released from all restraint, by Lord hindley’s attending the invitation of a gentleman to a tavern, upon Some particular businels. 
Sir 
LETTER XXL iit 
Sir Edward appeared from the first moment he met my eyes to be Sraught with extraordinary intelligence; and I endeavoured to prepare myself for the interesting rencounter — But judge of my apprehension and confuston, when I discovered that Harry was, in all probability, the person that had lent for his lordship;; that Sir Edward had the strongest objections to their interview — • He left me abruptly — and Such was the agitation of my mind, that 1 fainted twice in she rooms, and was conveyed home very much indilposed. 
My little patty’s tenderness had now an opportunity of dilplaying itself — she omitted nothing in her power to mitigate my Sufferings without even suspedting she cause — But I was torn with suspense and anxiety until Lord hindley’s return, whose appearance and behaviour was far from contributing to my repose, 
He inquired what was the matter with me — then muttered strange execrations; entreated me to take care of myself, and again traversed the apartment in the most alarming disorder. 
I did 
112 LETTER XXI 
I 
I did at last venture to ask him what had dilconhposed him — He darted astern look at me — when Seeming to recoiledt himself — it is of no consequence, Said he, only recover your health and all will be well — your health is of all others the most desirable acquisition. 
On one of his ruffles I perceived two or three Spots of bbod — harry’s blood, whispered my too apprehcnsive heart — I thought I should have died with horror — and his Lordship was evidently but ill dhposed to gratify my anxious inquiries • — He was Summoned to lupper, my own restedtions were all I had to Seed upon. 
I was more than once tempted to have disclofed my sentiments to the little good natur’d girl, and have got her by Some means to Search out the particulars of harry’s proceedings — But heaven was too gracious to permit me to Sink So much beneath my usual dignity; notwithstanding all the delusions of a fond imagination — that would have represented the demands of duty and conscience as proper to be answered — and that not to bestow attention on Such a Son, was an affectation that could not Sail to betray 
the 
V 
LETTER XXI 113 
the tender concern every circumstance of our connexion had conspired to communicate to my breast, for his sasety and happiness. 
That I had but fled to you — embraced all the misery of poverty and contempt, rather than have been thus — Yet what an illiberal soul must I possess— — I not purchased the prosperity of a whole Samily, that am but a mere individual — 
and my Seelings of Small import to the creation. 
The next morning besore five o’clock, my Lord bid Patty and I prepare to accompany him to one of his country foats — No reply, madam, Said he, or interrogation can be necessary' — it is my desire, it is essential to my convenience, and your cheerful acquiefoence may, perhaps, obi ige me. 
We travelled all that day, and late in the evening reached what they call the Grove; my Sather returned, I think, they tell me to London. 
I could, my dear, shbmit to the Severest mortifications without ^ Sigh, is the satissadiion of knowing how that amiable young fellow has disposed of himself 
might 
114 LETTER XXL 
might but be mine. Is there no possibi fity of inquiring conlistent with that propriety I have ever loved — I would not see him — it is best we should never more behold each other — But to be ashired that he is safe, and that the wretchedness of my situation is all my own — can that be blameable or unworthy of my humanity ?■ Sir Edward Selwyn has proved himself a man of tenderness and delicacy — when my distrefe at the rooms was too obvious; not to strike the most common observer' ' — was Id far from appearing to comment upon it, that he retired abruptly, as if the business, the apprehension, had been all his own. 
Yet, my Harley, whilst I even write may he not be expiring — and must I— — am the cause, and cannot long Survive him — for in the grave alone there can be felicity for Such a wretch 
4s your 
Euza. 
f 
LET[ 
[ J 
I. E T T E R XXII 
Miss Patty Muscro V g 
T O 
I 
Miss Harley. 
Dear Madatn^ 
10 N C E did myself the pkafure of 
writing to you by my sister’s request, and I now take the liberty of repeating my Scribbling to oblige a gentleman of 
your acquaintance -- Sir Edward Selwyn 
tells me he has already informed you of the unhappy conduct of his friend — he is pretty well recovered, indeed, but Seems to be extremely anxious to get him out of the country. 
I cannot Say I understand the affair — nor would I on any account betray what Lady Bindley might look upon as impertinent curiosity — But it is certain that her Ladyship has by Some means or other 
been 
0 
ii LETTER XXII 
been she occasion of the whole consiiiion; stnd my lord’s behaviour is beyond mea* sure wild and unintelligible. A Sew moments before we were hurried from Bath, Sir Edward contrived to see me — • he was exceedingly discomposed at our abrupt departure, and to the last degree inquisttive respecting my sister’s health — He must, my dear madam, be a very tenderhearted gentleman,. I am convinced, no less in this parting interview, than one or two former one we had abthe rooms: Yet I cannot help thinking it very extraordinary that he should So earnestly entreat me to Support,, amuse, and comfort Lady Hindley — What deficiency or inattention can he have discovered in me I own I am rather hurt by ' the bare insinuation of my want of natural affediion — but he is too well-bred and too generous to offend any one intentir onally; and as the cause of the little inconsistency with his general character, which I have taken notice of can be no more than stis over abundant friendship for my Sister, * I ought not only to excuse, but to honour him for it. 
He 
LETTER XXII 117 
, He begs that you would write to Lady Hindley, and Set the affair in the ibstest light imaginable.; but it is his opinion that for the better concealment of the most dreadsulcircumstance, Some inserior ones should be communicated: But above all things he recommends the absolute assurance of his having lest the kingdom., as the grand essential to restore her peace. 
I need Say no more to you, madam, on this head; your own tenderness and discretion (to borrow Sir edward’s expression) will be your best instrudor; but it was necessary to give you his plan; or I should not have presumed to dictate to miss Harley. 
What a strange turned mind Lord hindley’s must be — He married my Sister by the cruellest compulsion that ever Surely was pradlised — Yet would you believe it, madam, he is at times little better than a madman; for ever more rendering her unhappy, when at home, by his teasing ways; and Sollowing her when in public, as is he apprehended he should lose her. I can tell you, he was never shuch delighted with Sir edward’s addressing her; tho’ he well knew how 
old 
ii LET E R XXII 
old an acquaintance he was of her ladyship’s, and could not deny his being a very agreeable gentleman. I thought his happiness would have at least continued to the end, and shat the promotion of my sister’s would have been his incessant care, or I should not have born to have Seen her sacrificed even with the resolution I did; let whatever would have been the consequence. 
Nothing can be more pleasant than the house we are now at — but if his lordship will not change his humour, w hat but misery can be her portion.? He will break her ladyship’s heart, and what would lise be to me without her? Ah! madam, is Sir Edward Selwyn had but been my brother, how I should have, doafed on him; or even Mr. Hindley might have made my Sister very happy — but the action he has been guilty of, rather inclines me to give his friend the preserence; for is it not Something of a piece with the unaccountable violence of his father. 
I have not told you half I intended, but I must takeanother opportunity, for she postman is now at the gate for my 
letter; 
/ 
LETTER XXII up 
letter; and I am asraid her ladyship will return from the garden besore I can Send it away. 
I am, dear madam, cm. 
Musgrove. 
r 
♦ 
End of THE First Volume. 
f •. 
/ 
Z' • 
/ 
\ 
'X 
* 
> 
I 
» 
/ 
« ^1 
« 
THE 
HISTORY 
OF 
ELIZA MUSGROVE. 
t 
W Wi 
s 
.- ' ■■' -- 
DUBLIN: 
Printed for H. Saunders, W. Sleater, 
D. Chamberlaine, J. Potts, and J. Williams. 
MDCCLXX." 
t 
* 
« 
!• 
i 
f 
t 
tr 
• y 
K ^. ^ • I 
'# 
I 
«# 
* J 
V 
% 
J 
0003 0000 *5^ 0009 0009 0000 0009 0900 9009 
m 0^^ # m om Wi 
^{♦oooo^i^ooeo ^ cooo 0000 ^4 COOO cooo 0000 •009 *§• 0009 
'*^ * ♦ 
4 
I 
LETTER XXIII 
Myr Harley to laiy Hindley. 
( 
l^^^’^can, my dear creature, in J I ^ Some degree communicate the 
desired confblation. Our uni versally beloved Harry is well, resigned, and on the point of embarking for Madrals — Nor is there any doubt, .' but that a variety of new objects, and the reception he may depend upon meeting with from his uncle, will relieve his mind from whatever little anxiety or mortification he may have endured on your account. 
He did come to Bath, I find, for the purpose of taking leave of you — but the prudent Sir Edward exerted his eloquence So' Successfully as to Save both 
L 2 him 
124 LETTER XXIII 
l, im and you from the too tender interview — he shad, as you apprehended. Some conversation with his Sather; which happily (however, unexpectedly) terminated to his latissaction; and you 
Ought to be content. 
To forget him will never be the advice of your Harley — Yet, my dear, there is Such a thing as friendship to Support, not depress the heart it inhabits. 
When you have convinced yourself of the tie. that now subsists between you, and duly weigh the unavailableness and impropriety of every soster consideration, you will find it no hard talk to confess yourlels his rnothery or breathe the sigh that is truly maternal. 
But don’t be discouraged, if this change is not altogether So easily effeded as you could wish — a.blence, reflection, piety, and necessity, will all contribute to aid the work when once properly undertaken — We could hardly have flattered ourselves that lucn an affair could blow over with Ib little consusion; and though, I ofrant you, there is much to lament, 
there is also much to cause us to, r^oice 
— and 
LETTER XXIII. 125 
— and to Spend your days with thesather, will prove at the long stun your leverest trial. 
t 
I only wish it was possible for me to make you a visit— — perhaps it would be high trealbn to receive even a female friend with open arms — and you know I am not one of those that chooseto travel for mortification; I can affure his Lordship, that I could as ill brook a rival in your affections as himself, and therefore shall keep my distance to avoid bad consequences. 
Ah! my dear girl, what timsts must thole be when writing to you is a difficul ty^but all your missortunes are yet too recent to bear tristing with; and ray tender apprehensions for your jieace too much alive to permit me to trifle upon any other stibject — He darihot live for iever, and who knows — But it would be cruel to Write whstt you ought not to stead; and I will only add how rriuch 
I am, charley. 

F 3 LET 
>26 V 
; cccw; cccccci9; : ccc«»>; 
ir 
LETTER XXIV 
* 
, Lady Hindley to Harley. 
There is Ibmething very extraordinary, my dear, in this lord’s behaviour — He torments both himself and rne, from excess of affection as he calls it — He found me once in tears — it was a flagrant offence — And another time, notwithstanding every disagreeable circumstance, he happened to come into my dressing-room, when Patty had just called forth a transient Smile — nor do I know which occasioned him the greatest mortification. 
He has never once mentioned his son’s name to me, from what motives he can best tell — I am nevertheless much relieved by your account of his having quitted England; for whether love or disgust is the incitement, the consequences may be equally happy to us both — Yes, my Harley, I can now Safely assure you the storm is quite laid— — matrimonial 
yoke 
* 
L E T T E R XXIV >27 
yoke properly assumed, and every rebellious inclination at rest; and you may hereaster write of him, how and when ' you please— — to Spend my lise with him was not half So essential to my fc’* Ikity, as to know him exempt from Suffering from any fault or misfortune of mine — We are very young, and'it is not impossible but we may one day meet the happiest of friendsj tho’ we should havb proved the most wretched of lovers. 
My Situation will certainly require peculiar nicety, to Secure me from many mortifications ill suited to the delicacy of my nature. My lord’s connexions, we are all sensible, have been Inch as can have given him no very favourable impressions of the Sex — but my conduct shall, if possible, defeat the utmost malice of Suspicion; and command his respedt, tw his caprice should be un subdued. 
The sweet Patty is beyond measure dejedled; at what she is unable to comprehend — tto have married me only to make me miserable, is a Species of gallantry she cannot enter into — and when I Speak encouragingly to her — she only 
F 4 weeps 
128 LETTER XXIV 
weeps her lister’s hard Sat; and in Ipit^ of all my chidiiig, will wish that Sir Edward Selwyn had been born for her brother in stead of So unaccountable an old gentleman. 
There is to be a great stag hunt next week, in this country, as I shppose the papers have informed you; Lord hind lay has engaged himsels — but he is stich a miser that perhaps he may prefer watching over his ill-gotten Jiore^ to all the pleasures of the chase— — need not 
explain to you what I mean on this occasion. 

I will take the opportunity of his absence to write to you more largely on every subject; for when I know him in the houle, I cannot but be apprehensive that our correspondence is in danger of being interrupted — A circumstance too alarming not to teach me the utmost caution. 
This place is a kind ofpalace — But what cliarms either its Situation or magnificence can have for my heart, I leave to you to judge, who are So well acqiuinted with its natural humility, and the poignance of its regrets. 
,, Harry 
I 
/ 
letter XXIV 129 
Harry and a -- -- He is gone abroad 
you say, and I am perfectly satisfied— — • will it not be of unfpeakablc advantage to my Harley? Sir Edward will now be at leisure to do justice to her merits; and she happily delivered from all the anguish of hopeless affliction. 
Yet shall I confess my weakness to you — I would have been flattered that I was still dear to him, though not painfully So — Whatever /itt/e anxiety or mortification he may have felt on my account — Is this the language I might have expected from you, who taught me first to believe he was tenderly attached to me — Ah! my good girl, draw the veil of Soft compafiion instantly over this acknowledgment; and I will endeavour henceforth to have nothing at heart but the 
felicity of my friends for to crawl 
through life uncensured and unobserved, is now the best and most favourable prospect of 
Your once lively 
Eliza. 
« 
F 5 LET' 
'’ ■ [ ] 
LETTER XXV 
From the Same to the Same. 
t 
NOW let them do their worst — not 
another tear, another complaint' shall they extort from me — I have Seen this injured Harry, been witness to all his endearing distress, and will sit down and own mysels overcome. 
The morning the stag was to be 
turned out. Lord Hindley arole for the 
purpose of purluing it — — but with an 
irresoiution (sufficiently justified by the 
consequence) quitted his home, as if 
Some much apprehended evil was at hand. 
Patty and I met at the breakfast table 
much earlier than our usual hour; but 
we had been disturbed by the grand 
preparations for the glorious Sport of 
death; and were glad of even the most 
simple means to past away the tedious time. 
A Servan t 
LETTER XXV 131 
I servant threw open the door— — gentleman from Lord Hindley — It instantly occurred to me that Some accident had befallen him; and as violent deaths will shock the tender mind, I for the first moment experienced a sensation that had nothing to do with disgust or resentment. 
I lifted up my eyes — to close them' again for a long period — it was Harry; the milcrable, dejedled, ruined Harry — He caught me in his arms, and with great prelence of mind restrained Patty from calling assistance, and exposing me to my family, 
I revived only to recover my strength for another Severe struggle; and I be* lieve he thoroughly repented the rash nest that had produced. Such alarming con Sequences. 
My disorder slowly Subsiding, I endeavoured to collect my Spirits — Mr. Hind, lay, said I, what a meeting is this! 
True, Madam — and yet you See my 
fortitude — I have lost you for ever -- 
the first, the best, and only beloved of my heart — Lost you, in the very juncture that I conceived the happiest of my 
existence 
132 LETTER XXV 
existence — But all that is past — I came 
now only to indulge myself with one 
last Sad view of that precious Sace, and — 
Mr. Hindley was always good — and, Eliza, had I but been apprised of your intention, it most assuredly should have been prevented — I have a friend — his fortune would have been at my command, nor would I have hesitated to make use of it in stich a cause — Your father’s circumstances should have been rendered easy, and tho’ the employment Lord Hindley has procured him had been withheld — could he have complained — I have a great dependence on an im cle, his possessions are unbounded, and as all will be mine at his decease, we might have ventured to anticipate — if you had not been Ib precipitate — 
My husband, Sir — Death and destruction, exclaimed he, what would you say — O Madam, that husband and Sather — I will not rave — But do not name him again, I shall asse nothing at your hands unfit for you to grant — your pardon, your blessing, your promise of tender re xnembrance, is all I would Solicit — And 
neither 
\ 
LETTER XXV 
neither that husband nor Sather can Sorbid your compliance. 
Patty had retired to the window to weep; when Suddenly she cried out, my' Lord is here, he has entered the house, and what will become of us? 
Sit still. Sir, Said I to Harry, the guilty alone will shudder on these occassons — I know his disposition — but am prepared to meet it unmoved. 
My Lord was perfedily petrified with Surprise — Audacious boy, cried he, what brought you here~the invitation of your love, or your own unexampled confidence — A pretty election I have made truly! — My Son my competitor — unnatural thought— — it be con Si stent with your ladyship’s elegant and noble Sentiments to encourage Such a wretch? —. or have you been only entertaining him as the Son of your much injured husband— — of my housc, Sir — I have been Sufficiently Scared by your heroics — and beg — 
'He precipitately’ withdrew, and left me to the mercy of the tyrant — Harry— — father — I must have a moment’s re collefticm. 
Lord 
\ 
i 34 L E T TER XXV 
"&• 
» 
Lord Hindley, when he Sound the miserable Harry had (as he declared himsels) flown, before his wrath for my Sake, gave a loose to the utmost violence 
af his disposition -- -- Charged me with. 
hypocrisy, finesse, and the basest ingratitude. 
I Selt each unmerited stroke too Severely not to be roused to my own justification. Beware, my Lord, Said I, you have now broke in upon dangerous ground — Married only a month, and to a woman you purchased, not obtained .who was labouring hard to Subdue her disgust, and from principle alone would have been tender of your repose and reputation — But it is well — you will kindly release me fi-om every tie — What hypocrisy did you ever find in me? — whilst you covered your cruel designs with the most Specious of all artifice; whilst you encouraged me to reveal rny approbation of your Ion; did not my heart and conn, tenance perfectly correspond — you read — Such Sentiments, ray Lord, must have 
been 
LETTER XXV 135 
been conspicuous as no language could have exprested; and I yet blush to remember — So much for my hypocrisy — • My finesse I apprehend was confined to my behaviour at that afflidling period, when you first vouchsased to appear your undisguised Self — What effects did your Solicitations of my acceptance of you produce.? — A kind of temporary death ’ — that I now live to lament was not an eternal one, and when my Father rushed in to terminate the Scene — .was I in any degree consenting to the unnatural Sacrifice I lee your lordship’s impatience, but I have not near finished — You per fisted to avail yourstls of the samily’s distress, worked up the arbitrary Spirit of one parent, and melted down the resolution of the other — You united your self to sensibility, that threatened you with unabating resentment — and dread sully violated the laws of nature and humanity — I shudder at the obligations I bear you. 
‘ Yet was it not for your Sake, Lady Bindley, and your Sake alone, that I 
took So much pains — ’ 
To 
i3fi L E T T E R XXV 
To render me miserable — O my Lord, my Lord, do not Suffer yoursels to be - deceived — But it is impossible, your heart at this moment bears witness against you — You had it indeed in your power to have conserred an everlasting obligation tipon me -- -- -- i you waved, you dil 
claimed that opportunity; and from the most preposterous. as well as lelfish motives, conceiving me to be an objedf in Some degree amiable, and sensible of the improbability of reconciling me to Inch an overture, caused the name of gene rosity to be prostituted, and having paid the price, demanded your reward. Who, my Lord, was then the obliged — Youth and reputation were at least your prize ^ — your long laboured purpose completely accomplished — I was your chosen, your desired acquisition — But what remained for me— — constraint, confusion, and despair. 
‘ Is there anything I would not do to 
make you happy ?’ 
Mention it not, my Lord — I am your 
wife — 
‘ The world. Lady Hindley, nay your own family See things with different eyes — ’ 
Why 
♦ 
LETTER XXV 137 
Why will you thus invite my contempt — The world — avery competent judge truly ^what injury, what distrels, what compulsion has it experienced oh the occasion; and to talk of my Samily, is to aggravate the extravagance — They have been Ihatched from the very verge of destruction — Plenty and peace now revel in their habitation — Had peace alone been mine — ■ 
‘ consider, consider, Madam, human nature cannot for ever patieiltly endure shch cruel disregard.’ 
Learn, then, to compassionate the misery you have entailed on me — Did I, my Lord, break in upon your happiness? Did I, could I, compel your acceptance of me? — You found me with health and contentment, upon my cheek, and now would tax my gratitude for haying blasted both the one and the other — A young woman, neither ill born, ill-bred, nor ill dilpofed, must be reduced to most distreisful circumstances indeed, when she can feel 'herself obliged by Such a marriage as ours. 
It is true, I have a place at your table, and am honoured with an empty 
title 
/ 
138 LETTER XXV 
title "you shall abide the consequence of your own indiscretion, I will be heard), but what have you not robbed me of? — Friendship, liberty, and flattering hope; not to mention the complacence, the gratitude and the tender uest you. So unreasonably require at my handsl 
‘ Have I then no merit with you, no claim to your favour.?’ 
Had pity or generosity prompted you to pert yourself in averting the calamities of my relations, or had you bestowed me agreeably to the expedfati ons you communicated, the longest life would have been too short to evince the gratitude you would have inspired me with — how should I at this moment have rejoiced in your presence — — — watching every raising wish that gratification might have awaited it, and -- 1 
But as the cafe is, let the evidence of your own lenses teach you what to hope for from me — look on my faded person, 
. collect my Sufferings, and when you have fairly computed every wretched article, tell me if other methods would not have been more Salutary than unjust reproach. 
LETTER XXV 13^ 
proach, to, Save you from sorseiting even common toleration. 
Patty stood trembling all this time at my elbow — and the various turns of his lordship’s countenance are not to be destribed — I would, as I told him, be heard — The turbulence of passion had never before been known to me; but the worm, had been trampled on, and for once turned Upon its enemy. 
‘ You are very gracious, Madam, laid his Lordship, to Spare me whilst you take 
breath -- a lady’s lungs, I find, are in 
no degree more delicate than the meanest of their Sex — Fool that I was, to indulge my inclinations at the expense of my understanding — For I recollect, it was but too apparent where your fond affections were fixed.’ 
We had better, my Lord, Said I, avoid extremities — You are already Sufficiently offended, and I Sufficiently provoked — To have pleaded ignorance of your barbarity, would have been to invite contempt; and to acknowledge it, is Such an aggravation of it, that I can Scarce Support — You deserved the treatment you have received -- Ingratitude, 
my 
a 
iq letter XXV 
my Lord, was the word that wrested all that bitterness from my heart — Let rh'e never more be Ib grossly insulted, and I will add this day’s work to the number of thole things it is my duty to reconcile myself to; and exchange my unaccustomed violence for all the gen tlenels you have hitherto found me capable of. 
‘to take advantage of my absence; to steal into my house like a thief; yet to be tolerated ’ 
I thought we had done, my Lord, it was a last (tho’ I own I believe a premeditated) interview on your son’s part, and a most unexpe<fled one on mine. Had he been any other shaii your Ion, appearances might have disgusted or alarmed you; but the mother and the Son — are not those characters too Sacred for the breath of the foulest fiend to contaminate 
He quitted the room in Sullen diffatifi fatflion, and I suppose will make a handle of this incident; to blast even the tender twig of contentment that this dear child and I were So industrioussy cherishing. 
these 
\ 
XXV 141 
these, my Harley, are difficulties — « It is not the disappointment of a single wish, but the essential interruption of every Source of Selicity that I lament. 
Learn, theresore, refignatibn from the hard Sat of your friend; and when you Seel the anguish of unreturned love, let the name of Hindley charm y ou into peace. 
I am, rny dear girl, as usual, 
r 
Yours, cc. 
Hi NDLEY. 
I 
LET. 
I h2 ] 
LETTER XXVI 
Miss Patty musgrove: 
T o 
Miss Harley. 
OM Y dear madam, we have had Sad, very Sad doings at the Grove; but I suppose my Sister has told you all; or at least, all that she is capable of observing in her indisposed condition. I shall never bear to look upon Lord Hindley again — — What a barbarian, a villain! To destroy not only the health and peace of my most amiable Sister, but his own child’s also. I had hoped that a certain gentleman, whose stern behaviour had occasioned me So much terror, was an uncommon character; unkind as he was, he had a great point to gain by ruining his daughter — A. gaol is a dreadful prosped, and a whole family would have been involved in the Same wretchedness — But Lord Hindley, what could actuate him — love! -- Lord bless 
me, 
V 
LETTER XXVI 143 
me, miss Harley, why a very fiend could not have adsted a more wicked part — He could not love my Sister, that is impossible — For would he not have preferred her happinest to his own? — I am Sure I would expose myself to ten thousand difficulties and mortifications if I could but deliver her from Suffering; and yet I should imagine, a hushand’s affection would exceed even what I Seel. 
I am Sar from wondering now at anything that has happened — Mr. Hindley has strong sensibility — and to be deprived of all, as he Says, of all that he held dear in life, is too trying a circumstance to be patiently Submitted to. Not, my dear madam, that I commend him for what he did at Bath — It was no less rash and blameable than ill judged with regard 
to her ladyship -- -- Were not her own 
afflictions Sufficiently hard to bear Was not her lost of him a dead weight upon her heart .f That he could relblve at once to incur the wrath of heaven, and add Ib Severe a sting to all her Sufferings. 
-- -- •want of consideration, tho’ it 
may not be a crime, can neyer be an * 
excuse 
144 letter XXVI 
excuse for improper conduct; can it, madam } But perhaps you will not think it very becoming in Such a girl as me ta be passing off my. opinion for current on any occasion — But if you will pardon the present, I will endeavour to avoid a repetition of my pertness. 
Never shall I forget Mr. hindley’s first entrance into my sister’s apartment — His countenance would have made a striking piece — Every feature in agitation, every distress apparent — I knew him not, and was about to call assistance, as well on his account as my fainting sister’s — But he contrived in the Same moment that he flew to her shpport, to Seize my hand, conjuring me to ashst his endeavours for her recovery, instead of bringing in Servants to aggravate her confusion. 
What a wretch I arh, cried he, (as she lay lifeless before him) not a step do I take to relieve, but plunges me into additional misery. Eliza, my mother, have I then been your destrudlion Was it for this I eloped from my generous friend — to see you die — to hold you in readiness for the grave — and hurried thither too by my own want of precaution 
— Could 
LETTER XXVI 145 
• — Could Lord Bindley have done more? Yet am I the innocent cause? — An instrument in the hands of an almighty disposer, perhaps for good — O may I never again attempt to fight against his will! — but this, this is too much for human nature to stipport. 
How Sincerely did I pity him — But I could evince it by no other method than my tears — And his concern for her ladyship did not permit him to bestow any attention on me. You will not, my dear madam, Ib grossly misapprehend me, as to conceive I sought to recommend my sels, by proving I had Some Small preten sions to humanity — No, the mean dessgn was Soreign to my heart; and yet, me thought I should have been glad had he remarked me for his friend. I shall never ceafo lamenting, as long as I live, that two stich worthy beings were not defi 
tined for each other -- -- They v/oiild 
have been not only the happiest, but the most lovely couple on earth; and how many pangs would the generous Sir Edward have been Spared, if Such had been their fate. 
# 
vol. II G I will 
^4 
146 LETTER XXVI 
I will not enter into the particulars of the Succeeding Scene for Several reasons — Mr. hindley’s behaviour was to the last degree affecting; her ladyship’s noble — But I will not trust to my own judgement or abilities, but leave it to the description of a wiser pen. 
His lordship’s unexpected arrival 
threw me into great agonies -- -- Mr. 
Hindley was visibly chagrined; but I believe rather on his mother’s account 
than on his own -- Whilst she, with a 
firmness I never imagined her capable of, but was it not the firmness of conscious innocence met his angry brow. The poor unhappy Harry was loon put to flight; my Sister only looked her request, and was obeyed — A warm altercation ensued — in which the meanness, selfish ness, and cruelty of Lord hindley’s nature were most odioufiy displayed — Well, he did not belong to me; and I promised not to grow pert a Second time upon your hands — A promise, I own, on these recolledions, I have Some difficulty to keep. 
I shall never enjoy myself, until you condescend to insorm me what is become 
of 
LETTER XXVI 14/ 
of this most injured young gentleman — Sir Edward will undoubtedly give you the most early intelligence — A favour he can never have an idea of conferring upon me, notwithstanding I am So warmly interested for every party. I am much afraid that my Sister will be mortified at my discovering what she always most in dustrioussy concealed — But I am not altogether Ib ill qualified for the important 
trust as she may perhaps imagine iviy 
affection alone would have been ample Security — But it is impossible for any one of common capacity, or common observation, to live with lady Hindley without learning the nicest distinbfions — Delicacy and propriety are as familiar to my comprehension in their nature and extent, as their Sound to my ear; and I need not be told how great a breach of both the one and the other Mr Hindley was guilty of, when he Suffered the violence of his temper to get the better of his reason, as in his visit at the Grove — and I love him ■ too well ever to expose him. I do not give you the account of things I could wish, but you will make every good 
G 2 nattired 
148 LETTER XXVI 
natured allowance for me — if not for my own, at least for my sister’s Sake; and believe me to be, 
> 
Dear madam, your affectionate, 
humble Servant 
M, Musgrove. 
# 
L E T 
* 
# 
[ ] 
I 
LET E R XXVIT. 
Sir E D .w A R D S E L W y N 
TO 
Frederic S e L w y n, 
Wr.d A.D. distress' and anxiety has ' 
this young sellow’s. missortunes been productive of.? — Would you believe it, my friend, after all my watching and assiduity, the first, ule.she made of his recovery was to elope, and occasion me. new apprehensions for his Safety. 
But do not imagine that I mean to complain against him, he knows not what he does, and I verily believe, Supports him sels with equal Sortitude and relblution to all I am possessed of. You cannot be in sensible of the wide difference there now is between his circumstances and your selwyn’s — lady hindley’s forced marriage was the only thing upon earth that could 
G 3 have 
'^.; * / 
» 
% 
150 LETTER XXVII 
have given me hope — I may now acknowledge my attachment toiler, without any other ill conleciuence except that of awakening regrets in which I had no Share She is the poor harry’s mother, not mine -- which is stissiciently 
expressive to give you an idea of my ut itiost meaning. 
I was not long at loss to guess the track the lad Sugitivehad pursued — Same had insormed him of an opportunity his father s absence would afford him of taking leave of his mother : Thither I followed him with all expedition; and found him in a field at some little distance 
from the houle, in all the agonies of grief and despair. 
Lord Hindley had returned long before the chase was over, and Surpriled him in an interesting moment — His mother vas on tne point of promising him his utmost wish; her tender and affectionate remembrance of him to the end of her existence. He trembled for the treatment she might Sustain; was now happy that he had Seen her; and the next mo. nierit censured himself for his temerity 
and 
LETTER XXVII 151 
and impatience — Nor was it easy to reconcile him in any degree to the steps he ' had taken. 
, He then reassumed his resolution of leaving the country; in which he met with no Small encouragement from me: he Suffered me to lead him on with (at least) compoiure for Several miles, and leemed to have no other ol^ect of attention than his voyage, 
I will, my dear Harry, Said I, accompany you, and depend upon it your pur pose must be answered, 
He cast a most affectionate glance on 
me -- -- My worthy Selwyn, cried, he, 
what do I not owe to your goodness — ^ have you not preserved my lise, given me a proper impression of the weakness and preiiimption of my late dire attempt, and enabled me in a great measure to Submit to my destiny; and shall I, in return, draw you from your country, friends, and flattering prospects? No; I am unhappy, but I am not Selfish -- -- theresore let me hear no more 
of it. 
G 4 You 
\ 
152 LETTER XXVII 
You shall not, Harry, from an excels of generosity, deprive me of my friend, or expose yourself to the misery of Solitary despon den ce -- No man is better 
cjualified for a rambler than )our Selwyn; 
I have neither home nor wife to confine me. 
But you have a constitution that deserves your care; should an accident befall you, where should I find that Salutary bolbm yours has ever proved to me, to 
repose my drooping head -- -- You rnust 
continue in your native climate; your correspondence will be dear to me; my mother — can I exist without the knowledge of her Situation? — Be assured, you wn'll Serve me more effectually in our Separation than in our union; and let that conviction be sufficientsor us both, 
I would not contend with him any longer upon the Subject; yet I think I shall not so easily forego a darling Scheme — He would, Frederic, be lost amongst 
strangers; a calamity that must not reach us. 
I have lolicited a correspondence with lady hindley’s much esteemed Mils har lay, and gave her an early account of 
harry’s 
LETTER XXNII. 153 
harry’s mistaken rashness — 1 — It is from her I shall hope to hear the result of this last bold step; and will not Sail to communicate the whole to you: she is a lively, intelligent, and most accomplished girl; and could I contrive a means of introducing you, might teach you a different lesson to all you have heretosore learned -- Love is not an empty sound, Frederic, 
however your connexions may have hardened you in your infidelity; nor all the worthy part of the lex to be resisted; I shall think of the affair. 
4 
I am, my dear boy,. 
I 
as usual, your 
E, selwyn, - 
X 
i 
4 
I 
G 5 LET 
4k 
[ 154 1 
* 
LETTER. XXVIII 
V 
Harley to D^<^hindley. 
r 
Harry, my dear Eliza, embarked yesterday for madrass — •the contest between the friends was strong: 
o 
and interesting — Sir Edward would not stay behind — Harry would not permit him to attend hirn — And at length the former was obliged to yield — You need not blush to honour his departure with one tender tear; when your Harley has already shed a little shower. 
May his voyage be universally propitious -- -- and not only his peace restored, 
but the treasures of the East Surnish him with the means of blessing and being blessed. Forgive me if I observe (with too much, levity perhaps for the occasion) that Sorrow Sits very differently on different circumstances— — Harry had every ill to contend with — Take my word for it, he will become quite a new creature when master of an ample fortune. 
Sir 
L E T T E Pv XXVIII 155 
Sir Edward and I correspond with the 
utmost Samiliarity -- -- -- -- The prettiest, 
the most flattering compliments Sail from 
his pen -- -- -- though love Seems utterly 
unknown to him (one Sair otyedt out of the question) and would you believe it, he intends to make me a visit within this fortnight. 
What am I to think of Such an unex pedled intenlioni*i -- Have you been prating.? 
— betraying the Sacred trust of friendship by Some Significant look, ges ture, or bolder intimation.? and has the compassionate youth resolved on this journey only to Save me from despair.? — I cannot endure the thought — and could I persuade myself that So srightsul a Suggestion had the Smallest foundation — I would fly the place, and defeat his and your indelicate generostty. 
To weep with you, my dearest girl, would only be to aggravate your misfortunes — nor do I know how to advise you — Allow me therefore, in pity to us both, to try to Soften the gloom by the exercise of that giddy vivacity that was once your chiefest delight. 
If 
» 
156 LETTER XXVIII 
If ir Edward has no other view in this yifit than gratisying the fost Seelings of his heart, with a retrolpedt ospast enjoyments — Must I not think him cruel- -- it then only through my peace that his conlblation liesf? — but it is a Sufficient recompense for all I have or may stiffer, to be thus convinced my Secret is sase, 
and that my eyes have not been imprudently intelligent. 
It is Sortunate that Mrs. patty’s age is not alarming, or I should not be over much pleased with her approbation of Sir. Edward — - — Her brother indeed! The little dissembler — but better lo than worst! — And I dessre you may give my humble strvice to her, and tell her I would above all things caution her against too early an election of a favourite, eipecially where there may be Some ten or a dozen years disparity, as in the cafe of Sir Edward Selwyn; always remembering, that it is 
more honourable to be chostn than to make the most judicious choice; as the one implies the claim to many accomplishments, the other to wisdom alone — But alas! I recoiled that neither wisdom nor accomplishments have fallen to my share, 
or 
S 
» ^ 
LETTER XXVIII 157 
or that my fate is the most peculiarly per verse of any being’s under the Sun — Yet I will not repine, whilst the happiness of knowing myself beloved by my Eliza is mine, and I am permitted to Subscribe myself 
t, 
*« 
Her affectionate 
V 
Harley. 
« 
o 
t 
\ 
i 
* 
V 
* 
LET 
« 
♦ 
[ J ' 
> 
L E T T E R XXIX 
Lady Hind LAY to mts Harley. 
Your observation, my dear, is 
but too just, that times must be Very dreadsul, when writing to your Eliza becomes a difficulty, which is most 
evidently the presentcase — This last consolation however remains with us — they cannot be much worst, let come what 
may; and to be relieved from Sushenst IS no inferior blessing. 
^ It is impossible to describe the Singularity of his lordship’s disposition— — delights him one moment, disgusts him the next; and I am ever too melancholy, or too gay, for his repose. 
That he has an affection for me in his way, is most undoubted; but it is his own gratification (as in the instance of buying me) that he is eternally Seeking, and by which he defeats his desired pur post 'Was he capable of but one distn terested action, would he for example 
give 
y 
LETTER XXIX 159 
give me an opportunity of enjoying the company of my friend, a Smile of approbation would infallibly await him — But he will seize, not win my heart; and instead of breaking open, he only strengthens every avenue; and will never gain the Slightest footing there. 
Yet because I have not already Sufficient impressions to his disadvantage, she has thought proper to add the irresistable, charm of jealousy to the number — Jealous of his own shadow, my Harley, for Such is the life I lead, that Scandal ite 
self would sicken at the view — I never 
^ • 
go from home, not even to church, dine constantly in rhy dressing-room, and ani attended only by the housemaid— — this conduct cannot Secure rhe from cehfure, t must confess myself utterly at a loss ia what relpedt to correct it. 
Yet upon the whole I am much happier than I could have expected— — am, properly lenfible of the indulgence of patty’s continuance; I should be completely wretched if she was torn from me. 
She is really grown finely, and is now 
entered into her fifteenth year -- Will 
not 
io LET .T E r.. 
not Mr. Mulgfpve, think you, have slime fchenie advancement for her 
besore many months have elapsed___ but 
however repugnant his choice to her inclination, she has at worst the happiness of an unengaged heart — What would become of me on Such a contingence I will not however anticipate afflidiions 
for either her or myself -- To^ lose her 
would be an inlupportabie stroke under 
my circumstances; and to be bestowed 
after the example of her lister, a heavy calamity to her nice Sensibility — May, 
heaven avert both the one and the other for a long period! 
What importance we are apt to give those objeois we Behold with, approbation? — First r was to run away with your Sir Edward, and now the little undesign ing Patty is to be cautioned against becoming your rival — But if the inequality of their years is your only Security, I 
need not point out how inadequate a one 
'— Would she hesitate, we will suppose, at eighteen to accept an agreeable baronet of eight and twenty; when her sister at that blooming juncture was united to venerable threescore— — can nevertheless 
assure 
LETTER XXIX ii 
affure you, you have nothing to Sear from that quarter — It is not a man but a woman she Sighs for — and her sister’s peace, will I dare believe, for many Sea sons to come, be her dearest consideration. 
Sir Edward is certainly your own — Why, as you observe, should he Ib Soon revisit you, if he had no particular incitement — and I must very loon find my Harley in the person of lady Selwyn. 
I am resolved to make the best of my disappointments — Harry once Satisfied with his Sat — you, rny dear girl, happily disposed of, and Patty exempt from arbitrary persecution, I shall be rich in ■ fatisfadtions — and may perhaps at some future period, be restored by an unforeseen turn, at least to the transient parti 
Qipation of their Superior Selicity. 
$ 
I am, my dear, your as usual, 
% 
Eliza. 
9 
« m 
LETI 

[ ] 
LETTER XXX 
mtps Harley to Lady Hindley. 
ALAS! my lovely friend, your prophetic pretensions are utterly gioiindlefs Sir Edward — — but you shall 
have the particulars and judge for your sels, 
V 
We had a little party yesterday — my father, mother, Mr, Selwyn, (the gentleman that conducted Sir Edward to our village when a schoolboy) and the 
worthy old parlbii his tutor, occupied the coach, whilst the too charming Baronet and your Harley took up their sitting in an elegant little chaise — the most convenient of all situations for private chat. 
There was Ibmething I could perceive strongly labouring in his breast — He attempted once or twice to give it vent, (and fool that I was from vainly conceiving I had an interest in his distress) Smiled encouragement upon him, and should have rendered myself completely ridiculous, 
t 
LET T .E R XXX 163 
lous, had he not been too much engrost sed by the important purpose he had in view, to honour me with a moment’s attention.. 
at length — I have, my dear miss Harley, Said he, the highest opinion both of your understanding and good nature— — relieve a Suffering heart cannot there sore be an unpleasing exercise for either the one or the other — It is in your power— — 
power, Sir Edward.? — What can be in my power So essential to your selici ty Our long acquaintance might render you more assured— — Edward Selwyn cannot make, a request, that I ought not to comply with. 
This was pretty well, you will Say, on my part — my cheek, all mantling with consusion, bears honest testimony to your observation. 
aster a short pause, you are yoursel^ ray dear madam, returned he, respect sully taking my hand) on every occasion — I apprehended your delicacy might be alarmed — Circumstances are tender, but 
Since— — 
« 
teg 
564 LETTER XXX 
I beg, Sir, you would jjot waste the time in apologies (a good hint again) that if properly employed would procure you the Satisfaction you Seem So niuclx to desire— — will not deceive you' — 
Generous miss Harley, bu you must also pardon me,, or your goooness will be incomplete. 
I was upon the aoual verge of making a. reply that would have beti ycd me to his everlasting deriston and contempt;, when he resumed, tho’ rather timidly. 
Our Harry, my dear madam, is most inevitably excluded from the wish of his heart — but give me leave to alk you. what would forbid my looking up to lady Hindley with hope, if her lord: was but once out of the way 
Sir, lady Hindley; cried I. — • 
Yes, madam;. I lee my fears were too well grounded, but she is the only woman to whom I was ever tenderly attached, and is the only woman that could addi a charm to my life, or dispel the discontent that preys upon my Soul. 
Lady Hindley is truly amiable. Said I, (but tho’ I think you So, my dear, I had a farther motive at that instant for proclaiming 
letter XXX 165 
claiming it than merely doing justice to your merit — It was a mean artifice to cover my unworthy chagrin. 
O most truly amiable, returned he; Lord Hindley cannot live for ever, and in the course of nature she will be the Survivor — What would twice seven years of anxious expedlation be, in compariibn with Such an acquisition as her hand, if there was but the most distant proiped: of obtaining it. You are well acquainted 
with your friend’s sentiments and I 
must consess to you, I have troubled you with this visit in order to Solicit your kind information in one Single article. Has she, my good miss Harley, any peculiar dislike to me } — Is there any part of my conduct or appearance that I could redlify to her taste? — Only teach me the blessed art of recommending myself to her favour, and my best gratitude shall be yours. 
This was a most delightsul Setting off, and could not Sail to render the excursion wonderfully agreeable to me — notwithstanding which, I Supported the mortifying disappointment my vanity had expos cd me to with amazing fortitude, and 
assured 
i66 LETTER XXX 
assured him, he might not only depend upon my good wishes, but endeavours to serve him is ever in my power — A promise 
I will most religioufiy persorm -- 
For next to being ablblutely beloved, is the certainty of being esteemed by the man of our choice. 
And yet that I may entitle myself to the censure I deserve, I will own to you I should be lest affected at knowing him destined to the little Patty than yoursels — • I can bear a rival however extraordinary in my love — but our friendship will admit of no competitor. 
Yet whilst I was thrown at a distance by the uncle, it was evident the nephew 
beheld me with partiality -- In short, it 
was a day of persecution; for my ear was hurt by one, my heart by the other — and retirement was all I wished for to relieve — 
Yet I am proud of the compliment Sir Edward pays me — Any fool might have admired rny person, any knave might have been captivated by my fortune — but to have discovered the requisites in my composition, that conciliate the tender friend, the judicious adviser, and the 
compassionate 
LETTER XXX 167 
compassionate advocate is a flattery of the Sublimest Species, and shall be duly estimated by rhe. 
Now that this grai?d point is gained ^ that I have engaged my interest, and rather cherished than checked his hopes, he very composedly proposes returning from whence he came — Be it So — I will not be Sound unworthy his good opinion, or unequal to myself. 
Adieu, my Eliza -- That one man ^ 
for your Sake should have been tempted to transgress the laws of humanity, a Second become a voluntary exile, or a third renounce the whole Sex from the precarious wish of one day being united to you, is in no degree astonishing to her that considers her as the first and most valuable of females, the dearest and most precious of friends. 
V 
I am yours, c. 
R. Harley. 
L E T 
¥ 
[ i68 ] 
LETTER xxxr. 
Lady Hindley to Miss Harley. 
« ' 
SO you have had fine doings, my dear, at the village— — Simplicity, and honest shame, have, I Sear, fled the once Savoured lf)ot never more to revisit it. ' 
How can Sir Edward Selwyn have the confidence to prosess (or you So little delicacy as to be capable of listening to) his views on the wise of another — vvas I at liberty this instant and disposed to make a choice, and had sto other objeduon to him than this glaring breach ospropriety, be assured, he is not the man. But you know my sentiments both with relpedl to him and Second marriages in the general, theresorc should not have added in the Smallest degree to my dilfatissadfion. 
This is one of the many mortifications that attend unsuitable unions — But my particular case ought above all others tc have secured me from the indignity of 
being 
letter XXXI 169 
being bespoke — I neither changed my condition for a title, or what is quite as iisual, in order to shake off parental authority— — tho’ bartered for, I will remember I have been a wise, nor put it in the power of an unrefined world to be witty at my expense. 
Lord Hind lay has had a Severe attack of the gout; ■ Patty and I were as assiduous to divert and relieve his Sufferings as is he had been actually dear to us — But we did not meet with altogether So grateful a return as w e might have expected — He has Sound out I am too Sond of her, and complains bitterly that my affection is all lavished on others, whilst he languishes in vain for the Smallest share of it. 
What can I do to make him easy? — Such is his extraordinary turn of mind, that if I was capable of adding the Sacrifice of my Sincerity to what he has already obtained, it would have no better effect than exposing me in the first fit of phren zy or impatience to a new Species 'of insult. 

vol. II H To 
ijo LETTER XXXI 
To See an old emaciated being, tottering on the very verge of eternity, yet panting aster youthsul acquisitions, is exceeding dreadful -- yet every interval 
of ease his Lordship enjoys is devoted to trifles -- the purchase or alteration 
of a gay Suit of clothes, elegant pair of ruffles, or a renewal of his claim to livelinels and vivacity. Without a friend he can confide in, a creature whose attachment might cheer his drooping Spirits, or, I fear, one worthy mental consolation, does he struggle with disease, and labour to render even his shfferings uopitiable. 
He has been writing great part of this afternoon, but I never give him the consequence with me to inquire into his affairs, or would alka favmurat his hands in the most trying exigence. 
On Some occasions I have the honour of being a deity with him, then am Sunk to an errant driveller — That he would but be unisorm, tho’ in morostness, it would be less in Supportable than the shd den changes he is stibjeo; to — Yet if your correspondence had not Sailed me in point 
of 
letter XXXI 171 
of amusement, I might have Sorborne complaint, and only Substribed mysels your 
Eliza. 
'I 
0 
A 
\ 
H 2 LET 

\ 
« 
0 
[ 172 ] 
LETTER XXXII 
From the Same to the Same. 
All my resolution, my Harley, is 
beginning to sorsake me — this Lord — how indesatigable he proves himsels in destroying the peace of her whom he proseffes to love. 
Patty is to be conveyed from the Grove, on the mean Supposition that she is the impediment to his willies — Sent back to a house that So ill protected her Sister; and a Sather that will think himsels entitled by his Single authority to dispose osher without considering aught but his own convenience. 
There is no doubt but my affections must be conciliated by So endearing an action — I am exasperated beyond all endurance, at Such repeated and cruel absurdities — my heart bleeds asresh — every calamity Seems again to rear its head, and I must at last fink under the Sad complication. 
That 
LETTER XXXII 173 
That there was but Some method of Saving this lovely creature from certain destruction— — tender, So deserving — ■ but I Sear she is destined to experience the most ungenerous persecution, merely for having been my favourite; and will at length be devoted to a Second lord hind lay. 
I absolutely wish she could, sty to shelter herselsfrom all the consequential evils of her change of Situation — But it cannot be; the poor child is friendlest and unknown; and must, like me, abide the misery of her desencelels state. 
Was I not born in an unlucky hour,, thus to ruin every one that loves me.? — Harry — as you observe, I think by way of compliment — Harry has been incited to banish himself; do I not by the most perverse Salcination, stand between you and happiness ^ And is not this inoffend ing Patty irreparably undone.? 
The only thing lest with me will be our correspondence; and that, in all probability, will too Soon Sollow the rest — We ought to be prepared, however, and render our letters as unintelligible as possible; nor will I longer delay the Security 
H 3 of 
174 LETTER. xkxil. 
of this — Our enemies are abroad — Accept then, my sincerest wishes for your happiness;; let me conjure you not to Suffer my afflidiions to be too great an allay to it. 
I am, my dear girl. 
Your most affectionate 
Hindley. 
« 
/ 
I ET 
* 
[ J 
ft 
LETTER XXXIII 
Miss Harley to Lady Hindley. 
!r 
COMPOSE your apprehensions, my 
dearest Eliza, respeding patty’s Sat — if she is Sent away from the Grove, depend upon it I will become her protector. My Selwyn lest the village the instant I received your letter, and will wait: in a town through which she must inevitably pass in her way to London, in order to deliver her. You cannot imagine what a charming plan we have laid; and there is not the least prosped or probability of its being Srustrated. 
Could you not Sorelee that I should take this opportunity to atone for past negleds — The Sustering you to quit the village has ever Sat heavy on my t: on fcience — nor shall I ever pardon myself if this counter part of my friend fall by any omission of mine, into the arms of hoary iniquity. 
H 4 Sir 
176 LETTER XXXIII 
Sir Edward insorms me she is just 
the being you were at her age -- -- -- -- -- he 
Sees, he admires the striking resem ■ but owns with a sigh (nor shall you be offended) that the dear original will ever poffess Superior attractions in his • estimation. 
You may be ashired she shall have every advantage in my power — her accomplishments, whether native or acquired, cultivated with the nicest care — ■ 
I will be her governant, her companion, her friend, and Sister; nor do I know a means Ib promising to divert my mind from (what you perhaps too justly style them) idle dissatisfactions; as devoting all my faculties to her Service. 
We intend writing to musgrove, advising him not to expose himself byi unnecessary bustle on the occasion; as he regards either his own reputation 
or the Suture recovery of his child -- -- -- 
he must be a coward, or he never would ' have been cruel — So that a word to the wise will be enough. 
You are So over rigid in your principles, there is no knowing how to deal with you — but you will Surely allow me 
to 
i 
LETTER xxxlll. 177 
to give you my sentiments on your present Situation -- -- Not as being yours, I 
mean, but my own. 
IS I should conceive it an indilpenfible 
duty to sty for preservation -- -- who can 
answer, I beseech you, for the actions, the caprice of my frenzy — would you but give us the hint, no assistance or protection should be wanting — I would meet, attend you, cheer and Support you; nor should you once See the unhappy Sir Edward, is Such could be your desire— — Send him away for the glor' ous purpose of rescuing you from persecution or Sorrow, would not occaston me one pang — My Soolish approbation is most unquestionably his — but my tender wishes, anxieties, nay, my heart itself, is yours; nor will it ever be at rest unti you are freed from your insufferable, your unworthy bondage. 
O Eliza, I had resolved not to wound you with Solicitations — But do I live to stiggest, what you can resufe to execute? — if you have neither love nor pity for yourself, at least have Some for your Harley; and instantly abandon the changeling’s roof -- - — I cannot be happy with 
H 5 out 
* 
1^8 LETTER XXXIII 
out you; can any other plea be necefi 
farv where once my happinest was held 
jo dear? 
% 
I am, my valuable Friend, 
yours, 
I 
Harley. 
d 
r 
0 
LETI 

0 
[ J 
letter XXXIV 
Lady Hindlev to Harley. 
YO U have, my dear girl, by this 
last generous resolution, relieved my mind from its extremest anxiety; for had you penetrated the utmost depth of my wishes, you could not have fixed upon any expedient more conformable to them. 
I shall now meet every new, or consequential storm unmoved — Tho’ I really am of opinion, that her disappearance cannot be produ^fiye of any additional mortification to me, as stie will go away under the condu(5t of Lord hindley’s own people, and under his own particular direction. 
Here she comes — born down by affliction at being torn away from me; nor shall I have it [in my power to communicate one ray of Satisfaction for her Support — He will never leave us together, my Harley, in our last interview. 
She 
♦ 
io LETTER XXXIV 
• »; 
; 
She is gone, my dearest girl, and I 
am now all hope and apprehension -- -- -- -- 
Should any accident - prevent Mr. sel wyn’s attendance; should she — his Lordship 
— I can no more. 
* 
What a mistrable lels tormentor is Lord Hindley — the poor child was only Sent away this very morning, as a most for ’ midable rival; and he is now repenting his Solly and rashness; and would have promised, on condition I dried up my 
tears, to restore her to me besore this time tomorrow. 
But what dependance could I possibly have on Such a shuttlecock — Nay, in all probability, the next whim would be even more insupportable than the present; I theresore declined listening to him on the subjed, and I Sancy he will give up all thoughts of recalling her. 
If then she should be sh happy as to be cast under your protection, dispose 
her 
LETTER XXXIV ii 
her as you please — But, my dear Harley, hencesorth Sorbear all attempts to Seduce your most unsortunate friend — there can be no reputable, no justifiable slight for me; the world’s censure and the world’s law loudly exclaim against all Such unworthy impatience — Nor shall they ever have cause to list up their voice against me. IS I am Sent away, it is well — But to remove mysels would be an indelible reproach to my character, and Survive even the pity moving stroke of death. 
Leave me theresore to my resolutions, my necessities; and be assured that I am less miserable at this than at any other period; since the name of Mufgrove was no longer mine. 
/ 
I am, with all due affection, 
My Harley and Patty, 
Eliza.’ 
L E T 
St 
£ i82 ] 
( 
LETTER XXXV 
Miss Fatty M u s g r o V e 
TO 
Miss H A R t E Y. 
W HAT will become of me, my 
dearest Madam,, or her poor Ladyship, when she hears how unfortunate everything has turned out. A man, from whence or whom I was wholly ignorant, met me about ten miles from the Grove, and put Mr. selwyn’s astonishingly kind note into my hands — How was 1 transported! — a thousand and a thousand times did I kils the precious paper; in which childish raptures, who should shrprile me but Lord Hindley himself, attended by two of his ill looking fellows, all mounted on hunters for expedition Sake, in order to fetch me back to his dreadful mansion. 
He 
LETTER XXXV i 
He Snatched it from my hands with russian like incivility, and bursting with rage, took his Seat by me in the chaise, and whirled me to the Grove, ' besore I had in any degree recovered my sur prist, 
I was not allovved to See my Sister — ■ We were all traitors, plotters and deceivers; and should meet with our due punishment. 
I cried So much, that at length one of the house maids was So touched with compassion, as to offer her strvice to the utmost of her power. Bring me pen, ink, and paper, exclaimed I, and from the most miserable you will render me the happiest of creatures.^she had them all in her pocket for her own private purposes, and moreover promises at all hazards to convey what I write to the post house. How shall I be able to brook this bitter diffippoint ment! — Would you then, my dear Madam, have taken me under your protection? — Was Sir Edward anxious for my deliverance ?-^ — And is all come to So wretclied a termination? But Mr. Selwyn certainly did for the best — I am now 
convinced 
184 LETTER XXXV 
convinced that if he had met at the inn without my having any previous knowledge of the matter, I should have had too. much stupidity to avail mylels of his friendship — There could have been no time for explanations, and to have slipped away in the manner he proposed, was all that could be hoped or expected. His Lordship is in my sister’s apartment very. — very loud, the girl tells me — I shall die with apprehension — sufpense, my dear madam, is it not hard.to bear? The note, to the best of my remembrance, contained nothing more than a general insormation of my meeting with a gentle' man at the first great town, that would convey me to a happy distance from all persecution — that he was a near relation of Sir Edward selwyn’s, and a warm friend both of Mr. hindley’s, my Sister, and myself. What can this odious Lord pick out of it, think you, either for his own torture or her ladyship’s; (pare her, he will not — O Mils Harley, that ten or a dozen years could but be added to my life, I would not lb tamely stibmit to the unjust treatment I now labour under, or behold my beloved Sister dropping piecemeal 
> 
LETTER XXXV 185 
meal into her grave — and yet. Simpleton that I am, what mighty deed could I accomplish — perhaps by ill judged pertness aggravate the missortune, that no eloquence could mitigate; and lose the esteem of all my dearest friends from the impropriety of my conduct— — however I knew what measures his Lord ihip means to pursue for our punishment on this occasion — for punish us, I am Satisfied, he will, with all the rigour he 
is capable of 1 have not one anxiety 
on my own account — but Lady Hindley, my dear Lady Hindley, must she Suffer only for her tender, her generous attachment to, dear Madam, 
Your most vnhappy 
M. Musgrove. 
% 
4 
0 
LET 
✓ 
[ 186 ] 
^ i • 
% 
LETTER XXXVI 
P 
Frederic S e L w V n, 
• TO 
% 
Sir Edward S e L w y n. 
NO success, my Edward, and Miss 
harley’s tears continue to stow. I have been indesatigable in my inquiries.; and all the latissaction I can obtain (if Such dark information can be called fatiff faction) is, that Lord Bindley is. gone to France: but whether with or without his Lady, no one alive in this part of the world can tell— — servants were all dismissed at an hour’s notice; the conse quence I suppose of our unfortunate attempt in favour of the little girl; nor is there a single vestige remaining that can in any degree be usesul. Pretty creature! great indeed has been my mortification on her account; and yet it may be happier 
for 
LETTER XXXVI 187 
for her Ladyship, than if fne had been deprived of her. 
Perhaps he has clapped them in a nunnery — never start — The walls of even Such Sacred reposttories have been Scaled in every age, and immured damsels delivered from their environs. 
I will be your champion, your Substitute, on all occasions — For are they not Mils harley’s dearly beloved friends — only give me an opportunity of obliging miss Harley, and there is no attempt I will hesitate to engage in. 
I own your motive for dispatching me from the oidy fascinating Spot I was ever cast upon, was unanswerable; your anxiety natural; and Lady hindley’s silence to the last degree alarming — But what can I do in the affair P — I cannot work miracles — If she has been betrayed into any unhappy confinement, is it in my power to trace her out, much lest deliver her, without one blessed clue for my guide? 
I will immediately go to London — and do flatter myself, I shall be able to acquire Some little light from mufgrove’s family or acquaintance — I will tamper with, I will bribe every creature that has 
the 
188 L E T T E XXXVI 
the least promising aspedi -- -- for it is 
shocking to recolleo: the distress, the wretchedness her poor Ladyship miy be 
reduced to I am unhappy beyond what I can express on her account -- yet, Seh wyn, you must not expect me to Sorget I have visisted the village, or that miss Harley is irresistably charming. 
I am, c 
/ 
Selwyn, 
) 
0 
« 
• Jt. 
♦ 
'1 
LET 
» 

[ >89 ] 
\ 
# 
LETTER XXXVII 
From the Same to the Same. 
STILL, still, Selwyn, all my endeavours are inestecflual -- -- -- mulgrove’s 
vigilance and austerity So closely guard the door, that no one is willing to approach it. As to me, my person is known to many of his domestics; and should he by any means distover that I was a busy inquirer, all our plots would be blov/n up at once, and patty’s intended Situation immediately traced out. 
There is one piece of news, however, 
in town, that is rather interesting -- -- - 
harry’s uncle is dead — and has lest him all his fortune — It is very unlucky that he should have undertaken lo Saiiguing a passage, now that he has no friend to receive him at the expiration of it — I was in hopes that the fleet might have Ipoke with this packet extraordinary, and that Harry was returned by the Same 
opportunity — but I was disappointed, and 
v/e 
190 LETTER XXXVII 
we must wait the event as patiently a we can. 
»■ 
But all this time Lady hindley’s injuries 
and Sufferings are unredreffed — then is one daughter yet remaining, thoiigl; as disagreeable a contrast to her Sisten as you can poshbly imagine. I can think of no other means to introduce mysels — than by treating for her in your name, with the gloomy tyrant — you may depend upon it he would Snap at the proposals, and hishouse be instantly thrown open to 
our wish. 
_ 
Do not, Edward, let these little stights disgust you; I am as unhappy as you can possibly be — but I never could find that whining or dispondence were of the least iise — There is nothing I would not do to Serve you, or recommend myself with your Sair friend. 
I Seel diffatissadion in this Separation, that I never besore experienced — I would shake, I would laugh it off — but to my equal Surprise and mortification, I perceive it is become an actual part osmylels; and that however assumed, insused, or otherwise contracted, can alone terminate with my existence. 
This 
LETTER XXXVII 151 
This is, I consess, no time for these sost acknowledgments — But when you consider the toleration you have ever enjoyed with me in ail your odd Sollies and 
Sancies -- -- you will not be too severe in 
your condemnation of your Frederic. 
I compassionate Lady Hindley and her 
Sister; Sympathise with you and her friend 
in all your afssidion and apprfehensions — 
but cannot be inlenfible to my own private 
wishes and anxieties, even in the moment 
that I am most adstive in the general caiise. 
I will strike out Ibme daring method besore it is long; for this stilpense is not to be endured either by you villagers, or 
Your affedfionate 
F. Selwyn. 
V 
L E IV 
1. 
[ 192 ] 
r 
LETTER XXXVIII 
Si r E DWARD selwyn 
T O 
Frederic Selwyn, e/tf 
Accept, shou worthy Sellow, the 
united thanks of all that are most dear to you, for your good intentions respedfing Lady Hindley. But she is now a prisoner in the house of her Sather — and your efforts to See or Serve her would be utterly ineffedual — - — She has at last Sound means to convey us a Sew lines, and promises to be more explicit the next opportunity. 
Come theresore down as Ibon as you please, to this wondersul village, that has been capable of Subduing infidelity like yours, and perhaps all may be effected as you could wish. 
Mr. and Mrs. Htlrley dwell whole afternoons on the merits of your cliaradter 
(w herein 
LETTER xxxvm. 
(wherein may they consist, Frederic) and' proclaim you the man of men in their estimation — But I will not flatter you — not even one Speaking Seature in your beloved’s whole countenance has yet furnished me with a hint in your Savour 
she is ^ nevertheless I apprehend, pretty much in. the' lame cafe with the greatest of all her grand mothers, who, as Milton expresses it, “would be woo’d and not ‘‘ unsought be won.” theresore do not be discouraged, my boy, but hasten back to plead your own cause; and be assured that you may rely upon my best endeavours to serve you. 
In your day of bluster, arid contempt of every sost inclination, I always sus pecled you would, in the end, prove a very great blockhead, and evince that yours was a mere wordy war with good sense and the ladies — consequently congratulate both you and mysels, that for your punishment, your captivity is not of the most unworthy kind. 
We are to the last degree anxious and impatient for accounts of the amiable 
Sugitive — but to have prevented -- we 
must have Sorefeen the disagreeable ter 
Wl. II I mination 
194 LETTER XXXVIII 
mination of his voyage — Yet however he may be shocked or disappointed at his uncle’s death, the dilposition he has made of his Sortune must Sooth and con ible him. 
He shall return to us, Frederic, and we will, all yet be happy — I have formed the whole plan In my imagination, and who shall disconcert it? — You shall have 
miss Harley -- -- -- Harry, the" little Patty, 
whilst her Ladyship is reserved for the ' peculiar blessing of 
Your affectionate 
E, Southeast lw yn, 
% 
. T ' ' 
t 
■ i 
\ 
LET 
« 
[ ] 
LETTER XXXIX 
> 
DR, ^ Hindley to m//j Harley. 
IT is very true, my dear Harley — I am, as I insormed you, closely confined at Mr. musgrove’s. 
It stems, the moment Lord Hindley became acquainted with patty’s intended elopement, he threw himstls into agonies that were little inferior to the utmost violence, nor were they in any decree abated on his arrival at the Grove. ^ 
I fled to my closet for shelter — but he pursued me thither with reproaches and insults of the grossest and most aggravating nature. 
‘ I had a private communication with 
his unnatural stn; and he had no doubt 
but the next attempt would be either on 
his lise, or what was still dearer to him, my person.’ 
I Smiled contemptuoussy upon him — and disdained to open my mouth; tho’ 
I 2 the 
iq letter XXXIX 
she consutation of all his absurdities had depended upon that single acfiion. 
‘ I thought he would have beat me — • It is thus. Said he, that my Sufferings, my injuries, are ever the Iport of her that ought to relieve them — Why did nature lavish Such abundant gifts on your out side, and leave the internal part utterly devoid of perfection?? — have noshing of the woman in your whole mental composition — neither credulity, vanity, sostness, nor compassion— — can behold me tortured to the last extremity — dis traded, and beyond all description 
wretched — without one pitying Sigh -- - 
Yet I continue to adore you in Spite of my realbn, pride, and strong incitements to the contrary.’ 
Alas, my Lord, returned I, she instances I have received of your boasted affection have been Such — 
‘ You drive me to extravagancies, and are So ungenerous as to complain of them — Was I not ready to atone my hasty resolution of sending away your Sister, notwithstanding you evidently had not a felicity beyond her innocent conversation, as I have heard you call it, and endearments — 
letter' XXXIX ig) 
ments — Your hiishand was the bugbear — your Sister the idol of your heart — but little did I apprehend the discovery my Seeking to oblige you has been produdtivb of — I will Ipend my life in unravelling the cursed mystery — and if I find cause, will tear both you and the preposterous objedf of your love piecemeal— — wiil please, however, to favour me with your company to London, and give me possession of your keys — your father neither ought, 
nor will, I dare believe, resuie to accommodate you with an apartment under his roof, and unite his endeavours to mine to investigate the dark Scheme of your sister’s intentional ssigbt.’ 
You have brought me, my Lord, under Such circumstances, that I wish to have no other wiil than yours — Keys — • 
you will find you might have Spared the 
grating demand — 1 have not a drawer that is not open to your inlpecstion; and I am ready to be conveyed wherever you think proper; you shall behold me undil mayed, even when encountering the stern brow of an incenled father. 
Heavens! can, it be, exclaimed he. Such firmness and guilt are Seldom con 
^ comitants 
198 LETTER XXXIX 
comitants — Have I, Say, Eliza, have I injured you — my dispolition is naturally warm, my suspicions perhaps too much within the reach of every blast — To part with you is to Separate Soul and body — yet the stifpense, the torments I labour 
under, are insupportable -- Will you 
condelcend to Smile me into peace — there is no resisting the rhetoric you are mistress of — and I shall Ibon be Subdued to your will 
It is a common observation, my Lord, that the injured may Sorgive — but the injurer never can. The treatment I 
tve received, has been no less cruel an unjustifiable — I can excuse petulance, frenzy, peevishcess and moroseness, but the stabs you have given me are of Such a nature — O Lord Hindley, ought they ever to be excused! — ■ 
‘ I am a wretch in every sense of the word, cried he — those tears, how they gnaw along my Soul — my much loved creature, let me wipe them Sorever from your face’ — He took rny passive, miserable hand, and leading me to a chair, 1; egged I would be Seated, composed, and Sweetly Sorgiving. 
Ah, 
LETTER XXXIX 1^9 
Ah, my Harley, the matrimonial obligation cannot be trifled with — and I was beginning to relblve upon an absolute consormity to the humours of my ineligible partner (from the conviction that it vas my duty to confine, if possible, all that would tend to expose him or myself .within our own house) when he iinex pecftedly relapsed: into all his So recently renounced violence.. 
‘ You have So much resolution, madam, returned he, that you will allow me to be master of your actions;; that detestable boy is master of your heart — Was not this the very apartment where I stirpriled him ?• — Was it not on this very Seat that you proclaimed the grievous compulsion you had experienced? — Oh what language, - what expressions; — vre will to town — 1 think I shall be happier when I know you in that house out of which I received you, ’ 
Our journey, you may stippose, was not a very agreeable one, especially as poor Patty was left behind; now he repented undertaking, and again he rejoiced that we were So near London — We did at last arrive; and my recepi 
4 tion 
200 LETTER XXXIX 
tion was not much inserior to my expedia 
tions. 
I have an opportunity of conveying this sase off the premists; and the next post shall presentyou with the remaining particulars of this disagreeable bustness. 
But, my dear girl, you must not feel too strongly upon this occasion;; the evil is light in comparison of what might have befallen me; and I have not been restored to the Satisfaction of shbscribing myself once more 
4 
My harley’s affedlionate 
\ 
Eliza.' 
r 
A 
V 
I 
\ 
. 
» - 
4 
I 
« 
A • 
t 
4 
« 
• • • 
% 
• 1 
V • 1 - 1 
• ■» 
LET 
\. 
[ ] 
# 
LETTER XL 
^ V « 
From the Same oath Same. 
My Sather, it was apparent by his 
behaviour, was wholly unprepared for our arrival — He received us with complacence; and when my Lord began to open his motives for visiting him, I could perceive infinite chagrin in his aspedl. 
I however was to Suffer for all — he inveighed bitterly against me — I was his bane, his disgrace— — he would take care I should not add to the beauties of my character under his roos; for that I should not See the Sace of any other being than my Sister Mary and her Servant, nor breathe other air than what the most obicure of his windows was capable of admitting. 
. I bowed my head in token of submission 
— Lord Hindley began to relent 
‘we must, my friend, Said he, avoid bearing too heavy a handover her lady. 
I 5 ship — • 
r 
202 LETTER XI 
ship — Suspicion alone cannot justisy harsh measures — I rather dread, than believe, that evil is intended me — and whatever civilities you show this once lovely Eliza, will be considered as shown to mysels — ^ and should it appear in the long run that I have wronged her, she shall receive ample reparation.’ 
‘ Your lordship shall be my direeftor in everything, returned my Sather — I may be tenacious of the honour of my Samily, but you cannot imagine I wish to forget she is my child — your Sister shall attend you, v/liilst his lordship and I concert a plan that may answer all our purposes.’ 
Mary was called for — My Lord paid his compliments to her, and presented me — We are to continue Some time in London, madam, Said he, and lady Hindley will be peculiarly happy in having you for her constant companion. 
Mary, from not understanding the nature of her trust, was by no means delighted with it — she could not, however, avoid conducting me to another apartment : and for the first afternoon did great violence to herself, in order to oblige Mr. musgrove and my Lord. But 
when 
LETTER XL 203 
when she was witness to the particulars of my circumstances, which were on the first opportunity communicated by her indulgent Sather, how comsortably did file gratisy every little passion of her breast! 
fallen ladyship, the difgracedfa -- %^oiirite.,. and an innumerable sticceffion of mean epithets, bespoke the narrow soul from whence they proceeded — but I am not altogether fb weak as to be hurt by Such contemptible weapons, and she has the mortification, to find that, even in my fallen state, I am greatly her Superior. 
The most trying article I have to cope with, is the Sitting at table with my mother without daring to meet her tender eye. It waste her I yielded — The victim of her tears, her pathetic entreaties, and 
now to be compelled to See me thus -- 
How do I Suffer for her Sufferings, and grieve that she must grieve! 
In this strange Situation have I continued for this whole Sortnight — A kind of 
state prisoner his lordship alternately 
tormenting me with Severity and kindnds — The latter by much the least eligible with me. ^ 
But 
204 LETTER XL.’ 
But within these Sew days miss Mary 
has had the unexpected Selicity of picking 
Up an admirer — which occasioned her all 
at once to relax her vigilance, and turn 
me over to the care and inspedion of a 
girl that is very ill qualified to Supply her place. 
Instead of inlolence, this good-natured creature presents me with compassionate Sighs — and instead of restraint, Solicits my commands; she brings me all the news of the house — has been decently bred, and is Ib persedly amiable in every resped, that I am inconceivably attached 
to her. 
It is from her that I learn that my mother is prohibited all intercourse with her child, and is only permitted the sight of her.in full alsembly; on condition that 
she restrains her eyes as well as her lips from all tranlgrelsion. 
Mr. Mutgrove has several times examined me with all the art and austerity he is master of, respecting patty’s destination — but it requires little strength to guard against a known enemy — I refer him to papers and his lordship’s servants for lausfadioii — and you may believe me. 
Support 
LETTER XL 20^ 
shpport every Such attack with Sortitude, dignity, and invincible resoludon. 
My little attendant was so earnest in Solicitations to be employed, that I at length ventured those Sew lines you received through her hands to the post house, and on her lase conveyance of your Ibothing reply, /relblved to banish every doubt from my bosom, If she continues Saithful, and liberty and prosperity fall to my lot, she shall be nobly rewarded — If she betrays me, you must pity and forgive the too early credulity of, my dear Harley, ' 
your affedfionate 
''E LI Z M. 
I 
LET ’ 
> 
% 
[ 2o6 ] 
LETTER XLI 
From the Same to the Same. 
Lord Hindley and my Sather are gone to portsmiouth; in order, I suppose, if possible, to Satisfy themselve? with respecst to harry’s departure. I knew nothing of the matter until my little Duenna hastily broke in upon me, to inform me that my mother would ipend a quarter of an hour * with me, now that miss musgrove was out of the way, and her master and Lord Hindley at So happy a distance. 
I was greatly, (tho’ you may suppose not disagreeably) discomposed at this maternal advance, and returned an answer fraught with all that nature tenderly affected could dictate. 
She Soon appeared, and falling upon my neck, was irresistably eloquent in Sighs and tears. Now, my dear, am I in a. manner reconciled to ail I have Suffered, 
My 
LD T T E R XU 207 
My child, my wretchedly undone Eliza, cried she, what a price have you paid for your mosher’s deliverance from penury — and is this the only return we 
can make you, to confine, to persecute, to oppress you — butin this resped alone arn I exempt from a participation of the injustice and tyranny that has been exercised towards you — I — 
My dear madam, laid I, we are all 
liable to errors -- your trials have been 
great and nobly Supported; and shall I not follow your example? The worst, I hope is now over — let us not then by unavail -- ing recolledlions interrupt the Selicity within our reach — 
Ah! my too generous girl, returned she, what a different language does your altered Seatures Speak to your amiable heart — It was an unprecedented, a cruel —. 
To Sorget our griess, is a temporary 
triumph over them -- -- -- -1 am in great 
measure become callous — and from defi pising, cease to lament the attacks upon my peace — With much difficulty I at length Soothed her into tranquillity, and 
never was mother or daughter happier than we. 
■ She 
2o8 letter XLT. 
She was a Second time inconceivably agitated by relating her loss of Patty— — Say, my love,. cried she, that she was lest at the Grove — alas, what dist position can your Sather have made of her — I dare not mention her name to him, tho’ my distress on her account weighs me down almost to the grave. 
She Seemed to wish to be insormedi whether I was in any degree accessary to the carrying off the child— — of my Seelings; wishing, yet dreading, to communicate — for Such I am convinced, is her sense of duty, that she would run all; hazards for her hushand’s satissacfion^ — and who knows how Salutary a retreat your village may one day prove to your novr miserable Hindley^ — I theresore had the resolution to Sorbear mentioning anything that might be an impediment to future Schemes;, and only led her to impute the whole to the goodness and gene v. losity of the Selwyns. 
My anxiety on the sweet'girl’s account is not inserior to all Mrs. musgrove can Sufferfor I think I can affirm, that I have not only maternal tenderness for her, but the tenderness of gratitude and 
friendship. 
LETTER XLI 209 
friendship. The only coniblation I have is, that she is hardly yet old enough to be Sacrificed in the matrimonial way,, in compariibn of which I cannot but confi der every evil'as light, because almost every other evil is remediable — And yet, my dear, she is advancing in her fifteenth year, and is a most Sightly, well grown child — heaven’s will must be done; but I had hope that I had suffered for all my Samily; and might that be the case, I 
would from this very hour Suffer without one complaint. 
She has promised to renew her visit at every convenient period; and even would have dined with me in my own, or had me to dine with her in another apartment : — but it was Mr. muigrove’s injundtion that we should be kept Separate— — use his elegant phrase) and that I should be restrained within the narrow limits of a little chamber, until his return — I will 
not therefore enlarge my steps thole ' 
that have confined me shall release 
me; or I will live and die within that chamber. 
An 
210 LETTER XLI 
# 
An express is just arrived fi-om Portli mouth, with the news of Lord hindley’i shdden and alarming indispofition — and 1 am ordered to put myself and my eldell brother immediately into a post-chaise and hurry down to that place. 
mary’s wedding is to be Solemnised bj the lame direction, with all possible expedition; lest the death of Lord Bindley should prove an interruption — and by giving her lover an opportunity of discovering her real disposition, rum the hazard of flying off for ever. 
I cannot help confldering it as a peculiar happiness.. I have been enabled to Submit to all my ill treatment without clamour or contention — as they could have answered no other end than Ipreading the alarm, and inviting the censure of the giddy multitude — And as Lord Hindley was known to have heaped innumerable favours on my family — • who can tell but my rebellion as a wife, ■ would have had the additional stain of ingratitude annexed to it — for, my dear, 
every 
LETTER XLI 211 
I 
every one is not So lensible as you and I, what kind of obligations he has conser red upon me. But be all his tranigres fions, his cruelties, and his vices done away, and a blessed beam of penitence and grace in his hour of Suffering, break in upon his bosom, to dcsend it from the miserable horrors of despair.. 
my dear girl, if my personal forgivenels or attendance is of the final lest consequence to this last tranquillity, how cheerfully will I bestow both the one and the other upon him — The chaise is ready, and I can only add how much 
lam, c' 
'
t 
4* 
Bindley. 
% 
K 
I * 
4 
LET. 
f 
t 
“[ 212 ] 
4 
LETTER XLII 
From the Same to the Same. 
TSUPPOSE, my dear Harley is no( ^ a little impatient to know the event of my journey. 
We arrived at five in the morning — 
My Sather received us in a parlour, and 
haying very tenderly accused me with 
being the cause of j..ord hindley’s ili 
nels — Said he would acquaint him that I 
had the grace to comply with his request. 
Now I never till that moment heard that it was his request, but it was Sufficient Sorme to be insormed of his Sufferings, to draw me much Sarther than from London to his relies — and the language of unjust reproach was too Samiliar to my ear to strike very Sorcibly upon it. 
He returned and bid me Sollow him. 
Lord Hindley, in a Seeble melancholy accent, begged me, the instant I entered his apartment, to be Seated dole by him. 
You 
LETTER XLII 2; i. 
You are very good, my dear madam, Said he, to condescend to visit Such a wretch as I am. I would have made Ibme reply, tho’ I hardly knew what — ■ but he prevented me. 
I have not entreated your company, returned he, to aggravate, but atone, the uneasiness you have Suffered — G that it. was not yet too late — I never indeed had the power, or could expect to entitle rayfels to, your affections; but your esteem, your compassion, is I had not ' been blind to your great merit, would have been mine. I See all the Solly, the injustice of my Sulpicions — and am convinced that your mind is as pure as your person is beautisul. I no longer blame my Son for an attachment that cost him So dear, and wish it was now possible to bestow your hand upon him to avert his curse from my heavily afflicted head. 
My Sather gave me a hint that he was delirious, but he perceived and was of sended at it. 
Do not attempt to misrepresent me. Said he; would my understanding had ever been as clear as it is this moment — 
I should not then have been tortured • 
with 
d ^ 
214 LETTER XLII 
with the keenest pangs -- Compundlion 
and sels convi«stion, Mr. musgrove, are dreadsul attendants on a Sick bed. 
I was exceedingly affected— — my Harley, at finding Lord Hindley ill or penitent — but from the cruel recollection that it happened at a time when all compensation was out of the question — For 
harry’s mother is no other than your friend. 
He lay Some time without Speaking — the physician felt his pulse, and told us his fever was vastly increased. 
He started up a Sew minutes afterwards in an actual delirium. Is the deed cancelled, musgrove, cried hewill she marry anotherah, thou wretch — she 
is lady Hindley -- See, See, he has got 
her- -- laugh at all my Sufferings — 
hold her, bring her back, it is incest — it is my Son, my wife — 
Well, well, well, you loved her — So 
did I, Harry -- -- but you are young — 
what of that, what of that, what of that — 
I rendered her wretclicd, and without 
relieving myself -- did not you hear her 
Sorgive me, did you not See her Smile — 
, but 
LETTER XLII 215 
but may not the one be flattery, the other dissimulation — Let me think, let me think. O my dearest lady Hindley, wipe away those precious tears — it was your Sather, old Mulgrove that unnatural father, that was your enemy — It is true I ashed your hand — there I am lost again — I am lost, I am lost. 
I entreated him to be composed- -- 
that voice. Said he? who whis pers compostire to the ear of wretchedness— — heart and ear have but little cor relpondeuce — — that voice shothed the one — whilst it wounded the other. See Harry has thrown himsels upon his Sword 
— he dies, he dies -- 1 would not have 
Seen it — shut out the light — Did he curse his father, hush — let us listen. 
He is, Sir, incapable — 
You are lady Hindley — be Silent, be Silent — Swear you never loved him — I’U pull you both in pieces — • 
The nurse advised me to retire, and indeed her advice was too Salutary not to be complied with — But I was soon recalled — the violence once subsiding, gentle 
Sorrow and Soft lamentations Succeeded. 
I cannot 
A 
216 LETTER XLII 
I cannot live without you, - cried he, as I approached, why will you deprive me of my last Support — I shall not trouble you long — nature ebbs apace — you will dole my eyes, your hand alone — Where is muigrovewhat have you done about that parchment — was it pro perly executed? — You will marry, you can love, even where Harry is out of 
the question— — not me 1 was old, 
cruel, and too fond — I Sent Patty away to Bologne — that was not the method— — I am well, I will not add: So foolishly — but she is now in this house — have you leen her? You shall do what you please, •fee who you please — I will have Patty called, and the lame hand that tore her from you shall restore her to you; will that have Some little merit with vou? 
This was a consolation I little, expected — the dear girl stew to my arms, and j sobbing upon my shoulder, whiipered 
that now, now she was once more happy 
. 
His lordship falling into a doze, Patty and I retired to indulge ourselves with a'few moments private conversation — but we were instantly recalled — and lb 
exceedingly 
L E T T E R XLII 217 
exceedingly am I Satigued by my journey, and distressed by the Scenes I am compelled to be witness to, that I must resign the pen to her — only assuring you that I am 
Your most affedlionate 
Hind LAY. 
» 
« 
% 
vol. II ' K L E '.D 
k 
I 
[ 2i8 ] 
LETTER XLIII 
imifs Patty Musgrove 
TO 
/ 
ft 
Miss Harley. 
IT is an account of Lord hindley’s illness, my dear madam, my Sister 
bids me present you with but I must 
take leave to make myself of So much consequence, as to give you some particulars relative to my affairs. 
You cannot but recollect the distressed circumstances under which I wrote my last letter to you. What the conversation was between Lord Hindley and my lister, on his return with me to the Grove, I am still ignorant, but the result was, that she was hurried away besore my eyes, without my being permitted to Speak one adieu; and So Soon as another carriage could be got ready, I was informed by the ill natured looking housekeeper, that 
she 
LETTER XLIIL ^9 
she was to attend me to a ladies board ing school at Bologne. 
You may be Sure, madam, I was greatly afflicted at this news — but it was in vain to resist, and we reached Dover that very evening. I Sound, however, that we were to proceed no Sarther without a letter from his lordship, or my Sather, and was beginning to flatter my sels, when a man arrived and determined the whole affair at once — In a word, all miserable as I was, I was compelled to embark, remained Sora whole month in no better nor v/orse place than an actual nunnery. 
Well, I hope I shall never again experience the horrors the very idea of being shut up in a nunnery occaiioned me — Sori must own I had not the least 
doubt but that was to be the end of me 
^ % 
— but when I liad tormented myself half Sick — — comes orders from Lord Bindley to have me brought to Portsmouth, to 
meet him and my father on Some important business. 
Mrs. Housekeeper instantly obeyed; and aster much fatigue, we arrived Some hours besore the gentlemen — they were 
K 2 pleased 
220 LETTER XLIII 
pleased to give me only a very cool reception; lectured, examined me, but I held Sast to my integrity, and I was sternly commanded by my Sather to prepare mysels to make atonement for my breach of duty. I would give all the world, my dear madam, to know what they had in their heads — but to my great mortification. Lord hindley^s illness prevented their dilclosing their dessgns, and doubt and apprehension are still my portion. 
My Sather, you must know, never intended that 1 should have the pleasure, the happiness of being restored to my dear lister, nor would he even have let her know I was in the house — is his lordship in a happy fit (I must call it) of penitence, had not enlisted that I should be produced; and he will not admit of the Slightest contradiction. 
But lord bless me! how wide have I run from the point — yet will you not excuse me, as I really meant to oblige, instead of wearying you — I may be vain; but Such is the opinion I entertain of your goodness, tnat I cannot persuade myself you are indifferent to what concerns the 
Sister 
LETTER XLHI. 22 i 
Sister of your friend, especially aster the striking instance you have been pleased to give me — And I now will endeavour to Sulfil her ladyship’s intention with re spe<ft to Lord Hindley. 
We had not quitted his apartment five minutes, besore we were resiimmoned — His lordship was still in the ibst key of repentance and tenderness — He besought my lister to Sorgive all his harsh treatment of her — and running over the particulars, she, by a general pardon, would have Spared him the vast expense of Ipirits he was at. 
You exhaust yourself, my lord, laid she, and increase your disorder; stay tin you are better — I have nothing to 
complain of at present an unhappy 
flight instantly Seized him — again dit fembling, cried he, you know you want my Son — have I not heard you wish for him? — Do not your looks at this moment Speak your unworthy Sentiments? You See his fide bleeds, and would fly to, stop, to heal it — Ah, again they meet, again I am the object of their contempt and ridicule — See Harry exults in my helpless condition — I will no longer lie 
K 3 here 
A 
* 
222 LETTER XLIII 
here— — me, hide me — they brave me to the very bed of death — mus grove only is in my interest — they call him villain — they point at me — part them — drag her ladyship away — I will not thus be insulted and tormented — she dotes upon him — 
Thus did he rave the greatest part of the day; either imagining that Harry had Seized lady Hindley, or was going to destroy himsels — Both of which distress led him beyond destription — and then the deed (whatever it is he means) disturbed him in less violent moments — that 
never perhaps did being pals a more deplorable time. 
I suppose, madam. Said my father to lady Hindley, wlien we retired to Supper, you are now anticipating the joys of widowhood — but I would caution you not to be too Sanguine in your expectations. That you will poffels many advantages, at most peculiar to yourself, I grant you, — youth, beauty, and a title, are flattering charms — but you will still find yourself dependant on your father — You may start — but be assured your Suture provision is as entirely at my 
mercy 
I 
/ 
LETTER xlin. 223 
mercy as in your Single state — I am principal trustee to a very Judicious Settlement, and will take care to See every tittle of it executed with the utmost punduality — You shall however, have no reason to complain, Eliza, unless it is your own Sault. 
IS ray past life has been an undutisul one, Sir, returned her ladyship — I must conscss, I despair of your approbation. 
Do you hear the insolent, exclaimed he, but I will be calm — and yet — it is no matter, we shall Settle all hereaster. 
Nothing more pasted in this interview; and Mr. Mulgrove (notwithstanding I well know he was greatly dilsatisfied with my Sister and I being together) from Some stroke of policy we are unable to comprehend, has ever Since continued the most complaisant of Sathers. 
Her ladyship is of opinion you may venture to write to her; as Mr. Mu' ' can never think at this juncture, of attempting to intercept (if he was even to See) a letter with her superlcrip tion — Indeed I have a notion he is afraid of provoking her, lest she should prevail on his lordship to malce Some favourable 
K 4 ' alterations 
L 
224 LETTER XLIII 
alterations in his will — Was Mr. Hindley but here, all I doubt not would be Settled to our satissa^tion; but she hersels will never Iblicit tho’ his lordship was even dilposed to grant. 
I am, my dear madam, ' 
4 
your’s, cm, 
Musgrove. 
I E T 
9 
P 
« 
[ 2-25 ] 
LETTER XLIV 
» 
Harley to Hi no lay. 
YOU don’t, I hope,, expect, my 
dear Eliza, that I shoulff Sollow your tame example,, and' kiss the hands gs the veriest wretches in existence.. 
A pretty proof of his lordship’s penitence truly, to have consigned you once more to the gripe of the barbarian. Yet you will ijot exert yourself in Such a cause — not once intimate to the dying, the perishing wretch, by what means to make you Ibme trifling retribution for blasted beauty, and impaired health,, not to take your broken Spirit into the catalogue. Well, thank heaven, L am not endued with Such preposterous nicety — I would point out that this was my expectation, that my desire;. and, in a word, regulate the whole to my entire latisfadion. 
I beg leave to asst you, how you intend to dispose of yourself if his lordssiip 
K 5 should 
226 LETTER XLIV 
Slipuld be taken off? — Continue at Mr. 
miisgrove’s -- creep and cringe to his 
table, obey his nod, and be a Second time sacrificed to his convenience. 
You have the resohition to abjure the thought — Will you then at last vouch sase to come amongst your long tried friends? As you Set off. So you will proceed; let musgrove theresore immediately understand, that you are not ignorant of the privileges of your new condition — and teach him to distinguish between the Submission of a tender Seeling child — the patient Subjedion of an injured wise — and the conduct of a Sree character dearly purchased both by the one and the other. 
For, remember, my friend, that it is abject, not meritorious, to yield beyond a certain point, and that tho’ you are Scarcely nineteen, you will acquire a right to govern your Suture sels, nor to be again Ibid to any bidder. 
As to all our other affairs, they stand pretty much as they did — Sir Edward — we will not mention him — but I must 
communicate a Scheme I have Sormed for our Patty. 
She 
LETTER XLIV 227 
She shall marry Harry — I will give you the particulars, at a more decent period, and only tell you how anxious we shall be for letters by every post until his lordship -- -- can there be a possibility of his recovery? We must not be left in sus pense, Love and, thanks to the dear girl from whom I shall expecft to hear whatever may occur. 
And am, c. 
R Harley. 
I 
. 
LET. 
« 
n 
I 
[ 228 1 
** ^ 
LETTER XLV 
* 
Mr, H I N D L E Y 
f 
# ■ y 
T O 
Sir Edward Selwyn. 
Portsmouth. 
Here I am, my Edward, in the 
.lanie hoiile with Lady Hindley; dine with her, ^ converse with her, and am restored to new lise, 
I was insormed of my uncle’s death before we even touched at the Madeiras — but I will confess to you, not the for tune, the independence I had accjuired, inspired me with any great inclination to return to England, and yet the Indies 'yyas not the place I was the best affected towards, 
I quitted the merchant’s ship, and was taken on board a man of war; the first Lieutenant of which was one of our old School fellows we cruised along the 
coasts, 
LETTER XLV 229 
coasts, led a noisy, unrestedting lise, till she received an order to return to portsmouth to be broke up. 
I disembarked with the most lively Sen sations of past liifferings — and was repairing to a house in great disconlblation — when whom should I behold in the window, accompanied by her brother, but 
my own dear Eliza -- -- my mother, I 
would Say. 
I had too painsully experienced the impropriety of Surprises — I Sent for the boy,. and Ibon learned to my great astonishment, every circumstance ostheir business and Situation. 
My father was asscep, and Mulgrove in his chamber — I ventured to write a note to my mother — who desired I should immediately be shown into the parlour — ^ and instead of being shocked at my appearance, as I had Sondly apprehended, gave me the coldest and most mortisying reception imaginable. 
But in my consufion I Sorgot that I had besought admission Sora friend only of that Harry now besore her; and Such was the alteration that dress, the Sun, and grief had produced in my peribn, 
that 
k 
2JQ LETTER XLV 
that she had not the most distant recol ledlion of me.„ She mentioned me with a tendernest that cheated my soul, acknowledged that she should be glad to See me in England, and Sighed when she bore testimony to the early commencement of our acquaintance. 
My heart beat in unison with her’s — • and on regarding me more attentively, a starting tear or Some other characteristic of tender Sympathy, began to Suggest k liispicion to her, that it was the exile him sels she was then in company with. 
Is it possible. Said she, that you should be Mr. Bindley.? — Then I will not call mysels unhappy — your presence— — • 
bowed upon her hand, but as the reply I was going to make would not have been * altogether So consormable to our characters as was requisite, I had the reclution to Supprels it. 
She gave me all the disagreeable particulars of the last twelve months of her lise, with an amiable srankness — mentioned my Sather with compassion — an unhappiness of temper was alone the cause of his unkindness— — — allowed musgrove to be arbitrary and ambitious, 
but 
LETTER XLV 231 
but still in the moment of that very acknowledgment — you, she proseffed her sels much obliged to — her friend had been her great stipport, and as to myselfj her regard for my sasety had cost her Some anxious hours. 
I had strange agitations to contend with, but humanity, reason, and necessity enabled me to restrain them within tolerable bounds — Lord Hindley was in a condition to disarm my rage — and Must grove the Sather of my Eliza — I therefore only resolved to take an innocent revenge upon the latter, and rest the whole in peace. 
My Sweet mother was now Sent for — she obeyed the Summons the instant she received it, but conjured me to remember what was due to mysels and circumstances. 
musgrove, with a lowering and contracted brow, entered the parlour — I a rose, paid him a compliment that he was in no degree entitled to, and resumed my Seat. 
The boy, apprehensive lest his Sather should treat me with too litde respect, cried, papa — that is lord hindley’s Ion, 
The 
232 LETTER XLV 
The villain whitened on his cheek — - 
your Sather, Sir, Said he, is not in a ca 
pacify to be acquainted with your arrival, 
and perhaps that may be his greatest southeast licity, 
The best method. Sir, returned I, to avoid error,, is,, not to pretend to judge of what we don’t understand — it was accident that brought me to this house; but be assured, that wherever I had heard my Sather was lodged under his present afflidions, I should have' presumed to 
have visited him though in the house of Mr. Mulgrove. 
You would not attempt to disturb him in his last moments? 
All sense of injuries. Sir, is Soreign to my breast — Such a period as this cannot Sail to comnaunicate very different Sensations— — you and I but keep clear of animosities, and you will Soon be convinced, that to contribute to the composure, not the unnatural interruption of it, is the desire that governs and actuates my heart. 
‘ It will be proper, at least to consuit the physician; shall I be accessary to the, death of my friend ?’ 
No 
LETTER XLV i233 
No more, no more, my good Mr. Mulgrove, I am not the boy you take me for — no authority can or shall restrain my inclination, theresore — 
‘ Hold, Sir, since you are So daring, there is Ibmething yet for me to do be sore you are admitted’ — 
Beware of extremities, no violence shall be exercised towards Lady Hindley — she is not now in any degree shbje<st to your control; she is with her husband— — if conveyed from this town by any indi'redl measures, tremble for the con Sequence. 
He stung out of the room in the utmost rage; and I, having applied to one of my father’s Servants — was conducted immediately to his apartment. 
He had very little appearance of life — Lady hindley’s hand Seemed strongly detained by him — I looked upon him a few moments — nature felt a pang, — and retired to the other fide of the bed. 
He awaked — You are here, my dear Lady Hindley, cried he, nor will ever leave me whilst I have lise. 
You know, Sir! 
Ah 
% 
234 LETTER XLV 
Ah! I know too late that you are all goodness, humanity, and condelcension — but you loved Harry — • 
Your Son, Sir,? 
Name him not — I am miserably distressed — I would bless him as my child — - 
but the recolledtion he can’t Sorgive 
rne — I was cruel — but may heaven teach him to pity — he is dead perhaps. 
No, Sir, a gentleman — 
‘ That was the message I received at Bath when it was himsels — you are Silent, Lady Bindley, had he the audacity.? — Yet ought I not to wish we should part amicably — Death is an awsul instructor — if you have Seen him — 
I have, Sir. 
how dreadsully did he rave — O sel wyn, Spare me the repetition — but having quite exhausted himself, a blessed calm succeeded. 
1 will See him — my poor Harry — he was a lovely and endearing child — His mother — had I never lost her — but you shall both kneel to me as my common offspring, and we will forget every cause for enmity — don’t let his coming be delayed; I am faint, perhaps expiring; 
kneel, 
LETTER XLV 235 
kneel, kneel, Eliza, and Sorgive the dying -- -- 
I opened the curtain — and her Ladyship on one Side, me on the other — You could not but have been affected. 
Is this Harry? — How rough and rahe rable his appearance — your uncle died, tho’ — and his Sortunc' — do as you will with mine — Fortune, title, nothing, you find, Harry, in Such an hour as this — it is conscience, conscience unwounded, that is the treastire. Your hands — musgrove came in upon us, and when he beheld our Situation, there is no desc.ibing the malignity of his alpedt. 
Away, away, you are not wanted here — or you may approach, and bear me witness that I mea 
convulsion Seized him, and I thought him expiring— — he struggled through it, and is now in a gentle Humber — the 
God of mercy, my Selwyn, cannot but be propitious. 
I am, cc. 
Hindley. 
LET 
♦ 
[ 23« ] 
* 
LETTER XLVI 
I 
From the Same to the Same. 
He is gone, Edward, and be all his 
errors Sorgotten. The last half hour was a Serene one; he blessed us, .he thanked us, he prayed for us — and for himstls — exhausted nature at length yielded to the gentlest stroke; and he is now beyond all resentment or condemnation. 
I have contrived to get a codicil annexed to the will — the propriety of which will never be called in question, I believe -- -- Twenty theusand pounds -- -- -- 
leis would not have been adequate to my mother’s unavoidable expenses, and 
more would have exposed meto Suspicions. 
But this must be an inviolable Secret; 
it must be my sather’s gift, not mine, 
to recommerui it. to Lady hindley’s enjoying. 
I Suppo ie I shall have Ibme difficulty with this turbulerjt Mulgrove -- your 
company 
LETTER XLVI 237 
company would be highly agreeable to me — and together there is no doubt but we should manage him. Nothing has ' been yet done; nor is he apprized of the provision that is secured for his daughter — he is here, and you shall Soon know the result. 
I 
I allowed the tyrant to dstplay, and for Some time exult in his own unworthy. consequence. He had made himsels master of an instrument, wherein the mother of your Harry was limited to the narrow stipend of Sour hundred a year, on the modest condition too, that she was to be a constant resident in the house of her father — and in cafe of any future marriage, without the absolute concurrence and approbation of her Said Sather, to forseit all right and pretensions to the Said noble provision. 
He cast two or three malignant glances upon me, that were Sufficiently intelligent ' — these are hard lines. Sir, Said I, and I own, incontestibly evince your authority to bear away Lady Hindley, if she chooses 
to 
\ ✓ 
238 LETTER XLVI, 
to comply with them — but I cannot believe she will condescend to purchase a bare Subsistence at Ib dear a rate — she burst into tears — or to deal plainly, re filmed I — that my Sather could leave her exposed to any Such cruel necessity — Mr. Lawyer, you have attended him from first to last, have you no relies Sorus 
The twenty thousand pounds were pronounced her own — and the monument of reproach to the memory of the deceased, committed to the stames — and whatever were the suspicions of this minister of darkness, he had the discretion to confine them to his own breast. 
My dear happily delivered mother proposes to let off tomorrow morning for the 
village — my affairs will oblige me to go another way — your tenderness and affection for her will instrudt you what steps to take, to render at least part of her journey agreeable; I will not therefore be impertinent — I will dispense with your presence for her Sake; but if Selwyn is not particularly engaged, shall hope for his company — I can never be upon any terms with this Mufgrove; my soul shrinks at the very idea — yet shall all his 
fanhily 
LETTER XLVI 239 
Samily experience the utmost civilities from me — for are they not all the near relations of lady Hindley? 
I am, with due remembrances, 
your Hundley. 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LET E R XLVII 
# 
r Edward Selwyn 
T O 
Frederic Selwyn, Esq', 
IT was a blessed relblution in this most amiable of women, not to visit the village until all her affairs are Settled, and she is permitted to have Patty for her companion — otherwise, instead of being tste happiest of men (the light in which I donsider mysels) I should, notwithsttlnd jng all my friendship and affection for this Worthy Sellow, have for ever Sighed for her dearer company and conversation. 
Patty is really grown a most lovely girl, and has So recommended herlels to my approbation, by her unabated attachment to her Sister, that I Seel the liveliest, brotherly regard for her imaginable — ■ nay I will even go So Sar as to Say, that was her Sister utterly beyond my hopes, 
i do 
( 
LETTER XLVII 241 
I do not think I should find any great difficulty in transferring my love to her — but her Ladyship, her Ladyship lives, and is Sree; nor is it possible for me to bestow one serious thought on all the Patties in the universe. 
1 arrived in town fbme hours besore 
I 
my friends — poor Harry is grievoussy altered in his perlbn, nor are his Ipirits So good as I could wish. 
Ah, my Frederic, now is the grand crisis at hand — you have frequently difi couraged my hopes by your farfetched distinctions — and tell me that if you know anything of love, there is a wide difference between reconciling ourselves to living without the object of our affections, and Seeing her in the possession of another — but as it is most incontestable that Lady Hindley cannot marry her Son, as well as that that Son is possessed osgood sense, friendship, and generosity, I cannot think my cafe altogether So desperate as you would in Sinuate, 
I will open my heart to him the first opportunity, and likewise engage him in your interest with respect to Mils 
Harley -- -- we will not any of us much 
vol. II L longer 
242 LETTER XL VII 
longer Submit to the cruel tortures of shspense. 
He mentions his mother as an angel — and I do believe has the most pure, though 
enthusiastic attachment to her -- when 
theresore I come to win upon his credulity with respedt to patty’s merits (Sori mean to promote a union between her and him) and he has recovered the violent perturbations he has been so warmly exercised, in, who knows how far the repose, the tranquillity of resignation, may be his 
The greatest missortune is, that he has not the remotest idea of my Sentiments — All Senlibility himself, is it not astonishing that he should not conceive it natural for the Same charms to communicate the Same impressions to another breast — he knows I have seen her, converled with her, honour and admire her — but no Sarther does his otherwise lively imagination lead him — 
musgrove’s darling daughter, and proper likenest, has but an uncomfortable time of it with her spouse — She has a taste for, he an averston to, play — they have been married only one fortnight, 
yet 
\ 
LETTER XLVII 243 
yet are their bickerings become notorious — whilst the old partial Sellow declares himself no less amazed than mortified that his son-in-law can be dissatisfied with Such a wise. 
Mrs. mufgrove’s Seatures are enlightened by contentment — Her daughter’s stifferings at last Ib happily terminated, paints her cheek with an amiable bloom, whilst maternal satissadlion Sparkles in her eye — She hersels has endured a martyrdom for her family, and is deservedly compassionated both by Harry and myself. 
We mean to be down with you as Soon as possible; yet will the earliest appear a distant release from this town, as I cannot enjoy my eliza’s company here, in the Same manner as at the village. 
r 
I am, yours, ce. 
Selwyn. 
L 2 LETI 

\ 
[ 244 J 
4 
LETTER XL VIII 
Lord Hindley to Frederic Selwyn. 
Your fidelity, my dear Selwyn, 
has been so exemplary in all your connexions, that I will not hesitate to choose you for my confidant — It will be an unspeakable relief to me to communicate my diffatissadfions to the breast of humanity, and know mylels at once secure of compassion and generous concealment. 
Edward has conseffed his affediion for Lady, Hindley — taught me to admire his Sortitude, his sels denial, his unexampled friendship — but he asrs a Savour at my hands that is So utterly repugnant to all my Schemes, my flattering expediations, that I never found mysels So completely distressed — He ashs me to exert myself with that most valuable of women, in order to render her propitious to his ad di esses. 
Did I then return to England only to receive this Second blow — Her first 
marriage 
« 
LETTER xlviil. 245 
marriage was a compiilsive one — the principles on which she acted, I now See and consest — highly laudable, and her heart might then be mine, tho’ her peribn was So cruelly Seized by another. — In fine, I had got over it, and could have worshipped my mother with all propriety. 
But to have her by election the wise of any man living — to know myself excluded from my prior claim to her esteem and affection— — not this exceed all the rest? 
I will not, however, disclose my Sentiments to him — but persorm the hard, the miserable tash he requires of me; and allow her that right of choosing or resusing she is most certainly entitled to. 
The very idea of constrained widowhood was odious to me; but I cannot answer for the consequences of her voluntary renunciation of it. I mean to write to her in the strongest terms of per suasion I am capable of — If she answers my trembling hopes, peace and happiness will be mine — if she Sails — ■ 
I will Send you the result of my application, and have too good an opinion 
L 3 of 
246 LETTER. XLVIII 
of you to affront you with apologies — for it must be an undeniable recommendation (no less to your indulgence than humanity) to be unhappy. 
Lam, dear Selwyn 
% 
c 
• 
Hindlev. 
I 
LET[ 
[ ] 
LETTER XLIX 
\ 
From the Same to the Same. 
CONGRATUL/VTE me, my Selwyn, 
on my returning happiness — Lady Hindley, that dearest, best of mothers, has at once done honour to 
her own heart, and given tranquillity to mine. 
My letter to you left me relblved to make an application in favour of our Edward, at the Same time that it conveyed the acknowledgment how ill I was affecsted to a (econd loss of her I loved. I nevertheless carried that resolution into execution; removed mystlf a little way from London, to give mysels a plea for writing to her; and after a suspenle (tho’ only till the return of the post) that was little inferior to distraction, was amply rewarded both for my friendship and stiffering. 
But read her own declarations, and judge, if you can, or my honest transports. 
L 4 Lady 
1 
248 LETTER XLIX 
Lady Hindley to Lord Hindley. Dear Sir 
Be assured I accept your polite application as a very high compliment, and that I am not insenstble to the merits of your friend; but yoii must give me leave to explain myself upon the stibjedt, I hope no less to his, than your latissadion. 
In the first place then, I must be allowed to acknowledge, that Second marriages were never what I approved — the tenet may be Singular, but it is fixed — I have my friendships, my attachments, stisticient to fill a more enlarged breast than I can boast; and cannot prevail upon mysels to grasp beyond Selicity. 
I have, my Lord, attained a peaceful haven — and shall I not repose myself— — and difficulties have hitherto been my portion, and now that prospects are clearing upon me, and the Sweets of liberty court my enjoyment — can I expose myself to the rough ocean of lise? 
I have not the least doubt of Sir edward’s honour, humanity, or love — His 
whole 
-1 § ±1^ JU A ISJ JLV ^ 
whole conduct has evinced his pretences to the Sormer — and has he not conseffed the latter But neither that honour, humanity, or love, would permit him to be happy in the union he Iblicits — It is a difficult point for me to discuss; as doing justice to his tender Seelings might Seem a restedion upon that memory, death has rendered Sacred. 
I will therefore only add, that as 
my friend -- -- -- -1 shall ever receive him 
with joy; notwithstanding it would be impossible for me to behold him in another character, without the utmost di stress and consusion. 
I am, dear Sir, with due gratitude 
for your obliging Sentiments, your affectionate relation, 
Hind LAY. 
You rejoice with me, Selwyn, and v/e will make the best we can of Kdward. 
He is ever entertaining me with the little patty’s persedions, and would you 
L 5 believe 
250 LETTER XLIX 
believe it, very gravely advised me to make choice of her — but the very name of matrimony will be a bugbear to my Soul to the end of my existence, 
I had devoted mylels to eternal celibacy on the first knowledge of my bitter disappointment, and had So long taught mysels to subsist on the consoling hope, that her Ladyship would never enter into any new engagement, however early her opportunities; that it was depriving me of my last Support, consequently could not Sail to weigh me down with apprehenston. 
This Sweet Patty shall be edward’s, all my acquilitions theirs — and I will Spend all the rest of my days beneath their hospitable roof — I never loved but once — nor is it possible for me to lose, tho’ I can regulate the tender inclination — My mother and my friends shall divide my heart, and insensibly wear out the furrows anguish has thrown up in it. Nor fiiall you, Selwyn, be Sorgotten 
^ by yours, c. 
Hindley. 
LET 
• • 
J 
LETTER L 
Miss Patty Musgrove 
T O 
Miss Harley. 
omy dear good madam, you will kindly tolerate me in my present presumption — I know not what it is, but notwithstanding Lady Hindley is both my friend and Sister, I think I can Speak more Sree and easy to you upon the sub jedl I have now at heart. How shall I 
tell you -- but indeed it is true, all my 
friends in this town are for bringing an union to bear between me and Sir Edward Selivyn' — but I have fb many doubts and uneasineffes upon my mind, as well as.the convicflion that these are too early days for me to think of any Such thing, that I above measure stand in need of a good natur’d lady, like yourself, to whom I 
may, 
1 
ii X. i X II rv. jli. 
may communicate the one, and be ad vised in the other. 
■that Sir Edward Selwyn is a very a greeable gentleman, I am not Such a Sool as to be insensible of — but it Seems he has long loved, and even now dies, as it is called, for her Ladyship — how then is it possible he should approve of me — And should not these matters be the voluntary choice oseach party, not the re 
Suit of cold deliberation or friendly admonition 
My dear mama cries over me every day with joy at my happy prospeds; for it seems she had apprehended the very worst consequences from my father’s re sentment; nor have I the courage to Say one wmrd to mortify or dipiease her. 
But as for Sir Edward, it is very apparent who is the object of his wishes — A circumstance, you know, cannot be very flattering to the humblest heart. 
We should be all amazingly comfortable if it was not for this particular — for my papa is grown quite a new being — sternness and austerity are now no more, but he absolutely consults and promotes the general felicity. 
I beg 
u X X XIV .iii 
beg you will not tell my lister of this letter, lest she should be angry; and only Savour me with your opinion by the return of the post; and it is impossible for me to Say how much you will oblige, dear madam, 
your most affedsionate 
M. Musgrove. 
^ * • 
g 
LET 
L 254 j 
LETTER LI 
Miss Harley to Lady Hindley. 
IT is but an ill recommendation of an epistle, my Eliza, to be guilty in the very first lines of it of a breach of confidence — but the enclosed from your Sweet innocent Patty has produced fb happy an effect on my mind, that I can conceal no part of it from you. How do I despise myself for having lb long wished to engage those affections I was but too sensible were wedded to another! My delicacy was alarmed, my pride mortified, even at the absolute conviction of what this dear girl shudders at only in idea — Take then your Sir Edward, Lady Hindley, and mould him to your will, whilst I reward the constancy, and do justice to the valuable attachment of his uncle. 
Mr. Selwyn has long been my father and mother’s choice, but I Sear he never would have been mine, but for the little 
occur 
• ^ 
LI 255 
occurrence I have now communicated — what an insatuation — where was my pride — But let the remembrance perish, and henceforth know me Sora woman of Spirit. 
I should be only served rightly is my repentance should be too late to Secure me from neglecst, where I have So long. 
and unworthily neglected- -- Mr. 
Selwyn has a nobleness in his nature that cannot fail to incite him to be tender of the very infirmities of his friends, All. the difficulty is, to descend with a good grace — my father and mother are too open to 'be trusted, lady Hindley is an unfit instrument in Such a cause, the work, my der, must be all my own; and love, you know, is not fb clear sighted as to discern every little inconsistency — • and as I will make him ample compensation in the wife, for all the follies of the mistress, I think he will have no realbn to be dissatisfied. I would not now marry Sir Edward if he vasto Solicit me in the strongest termss — I have not even the least reiemblance of my Eliza to recommend me to his favour — and who can Say hov/ Sar the Seeds of discontent 
r 
X X Id. XV jui. 
content might have Sprung up in my heart, in Some Such mioment as the one I have experienced; of beholding myself in a true point of ridicule and contempt.? 
To be Serious, my dear Lady Hindley, I will conscss to you that my conversion was not So instantaneous as I have represented it. The continual assiduity and relpebi of a truly valuable man, was too striking a contrast to the cold Sir Edward, not to make a due impreshon in my breast — The one I Sound entitled to my esteem and gratitude, at the Same time that the other was in possession (without rhime or reason) of my love. Every day brought me Sresh instances of the merit and increasing affection of the Sormer, and the mere friendly attentions of the latter — I was convinced, but not determined, until my little monitor came to my aid. Had I done justice to. Mr. selwyn’s behaviour, I am Satisfied you would have been charmed with it, and united your eloquence to his for the purpose he has Ib long had in view — but as I foresaw, foi guarded against my own happiness; and tho’ honest conicience for ever reproached me 
for 
♦ 
LETTER LI 257 
for my illiberal proceedings, never once made him the shbjedt of either my description or panegyric. 
Have I not, however, made Sull a tonement by this confession of my faults? and if you do not find me adhere to the present tenets, I give you leave to cast me off from your friendship. 
You need not let the Sentimental prater into the errors of your Harley, iinless you think she deserves a still Severer humiliation than her own consciousness and your censure — But shall I not be as dear to you as ever, when I make it appear that my penitentials are all unfeigned, 
and that I am 
I 
Your own 
Harley. 
LET 
« 

I 
[ 25k ] 
ft, *.®® 
LETTER LII 
Sir E DWARD selwyn; 
T O 
Frederic S e L w y n, dr 
AL L is now at an end, my Frederic, 
and I as completely miserable as you can possibly imagine. Little indeed, did I know of Calijla^ when I continued to flatter mysels with a Savourable turn in her sentiments— — does llie Sooth and wound me in the Same moment, by prosessing the highest esteem for me as a friend, tho’ utterly repugnant to the accepting me Sora husband. She is unquestionably a kind of divinity on earth; and I, as well as Harry, must ever continue to adore her. 
What was the wanton declaration I made in a Sormer epistle, when the meteor hope was dancing besore my deluded eyes — that I should find but little difficulty 
LETTER LII 259 
ty in transferring my affection from her 
ladyship to Patty -- it was a base, a 
punishable Salshood; Patty, all lovely, accomplished, and attracting, is not my Eliza; nor is it more natural to me to breathe, than to breathe only for her. 
And yet, my boy, I am Ib closely attacked on all Sides, that I know not how to desend mysels — Harry hinges all his Selicity on this unthought of union — Lady Hindley declares it to me her earnest desire; Mrs. musgrove tacitly intreats me to lave the worthy girl from all future persecution; and musgrove, either from a principle of self-interest, or shame, or both, is to the last degree Iblicitous in promoting the universal wish. 
Youth and innocence — how inexpres sibly captivating — Why, why was not harry’s heart open to their influence, and her ladyship’s principles less rigidly delicate.? It will not be altered, nor can I shbmit — and what will be the consequence is impossible to Say. 
But i should have told you in what manner the worthy Mrs. musgrove received us. Lady Hindley, with Patty 
in 
✓ 
26o letter LIX 
in her hand, kneeled besore the delighted parent — My children, my So recently lost children, cried she, how little could your mother have promised hersels the felicity she now enjoys! To behold your countenance, my Eliza, you, to whom I am indebted for every sitissadtion of myself and family, once more composed — IS indeed to live — We will, my' generous Sufferer, we will now lose all disagreeable remembrances; and from this hour, will I endeavour to forget 
myself -- It is however, impossible, 
Frederic, to give you an adequate idea of the tender Scene — it was, in a word, the luxury of mental enjoyment, and the Sympathetic tear gave additional beauty to every eye. I began at last to be apprehensive of Ibme ill consequen ces to the mother, from her too strong agitations, and made an effort to detach her mind from its intenle Satisfaction; but she would be Seated between her two girls; and now her Eliza and now her Patty, was the object of her affecting endearments. 
mulgrove’s 
LETTER LII 261 
mufgrove’s topsails are amazingly lowered, occasioned, as he tells the story, by the dying behaviour of his friend — I would not be ill natured or uncharitable, but, if I remember right, he rather antedates his reformation — the deprivation of power will work a more wonderful change in a mean Ibul, than any other circumstance — yet we will not examine him too minutely, but accept his Services and concessions, and leave his Sincerity to be questioned or evinced, by the permanence of his good behaviour. O, but he gives you another reason for his present gentleness, the disappointment of his expedations, with relpedt to his favourite’s happiness; it was a match after his own heart, notwithstanding which, it turns out to his dissatisfadion; and I really susped he feels a kind of conscious punishment in it, for his evil dealings towards our incomparable friend. 
My heart, my Frederic, all this time finds no consolation — Lady Hindley — Patty, Harry, alternately distress it — 
And 
\ 
26^ LETTER LII 
And I can only add, that I am as much yours, as my perplexity will give me leave to be any body’s friend. 
E. Selwyn. 
4, 
w 
\ 
/ 
* 
% 
m 
L E T 
% 

[ 2^3 J 
« 
LETTER LIII 
/ From the Same do the Same. 
WE all, my Frederic, congratulate 
you, a million times congratulate you, on the happy termination of your wishes — Mils Harley is then irrevocably yours; and you will, within the ensuing * eight and foety shours, present her personally and declaredly your bride — then will the circle be complete, and would but my rebellious heart cease to Sigh for impossibilities — but you must take me as I am willing to do musgrove, for what I appear; nor too acutely Search into realities. 
Everything is Settled — Lady Hindley will take up her ressdence under your happy roos — his lordship is to be your friend’s guest, and the lovely Patty his dearest companion. Thus will the whole be wound up — yet all is not So well with me as I could wish — I cannot write, 
I cannot dwell on the Subject -- -- Such 
graces, 
t 
m 
264 LETTER LIII 
graces, Frederic, has tranquillity called Sbrth in her ladyship’s countenance, that it is dangerous to look upon it — Harry has infinitely the advantage of me — for is not his friendship proseffedly her dearest possession?? Patty shall fill up the void in my Soul, and harmony and happiness be universally ours. 
I am, my dear Sellow, 
with the warmest affection, 
, / 
See. 
E. Selwyn 
> 

