THE
%
mutability
O P
 ,
isc.
VOL I.
THE
MU TABILITY
O P
 ;
»
O R
MEMOIRS
OF
ADELAIDE, Marchioness of Melville.
By a lady.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
^ V O L I.
(
%
\
D U B L I nd
A * ^
printtd FOR S. Price, W. Sleater, W. Whitbstone, W. Watson, D. cham jberlaine, J.hoey, J. Williams, J. Potts, W.colles, G. Burnet, T. Walked, C Jenkin, E. Cross, L White, J. exshaw, J Beatty.
M, DCC, l>xxvli.
\ ^ — ■
$
>
\
« *
4
y
$
s *
/
4
i
S
X
4
$
I
%
... #
4 ♦
»*
4
*
•»)
■ .«(■ ‘ht.isr ss. sr %
\
THE
MU T ABILI t i
%
O F
 , c
#
Howard to Mtfs Meynel.'
Laurel Grovel
Wh E N will the conducting ange
guide me to the realms of peace, when;. sorrow no more tortures the victim of op pression! Oh, when will that happj ^3 period arrive, when Time, with me, shall ^ be no more! My enemy — but alas! ]
P will not retort his cruel wishes — My in i nocence gleams a Satisfaction which, witi ^ all his power, his confeious gust must
"1 certainly deny. -- -- Yet do not these sent
timents allude to a desire of revenge,
which a Christian should not harbour?
^ vol. I, B Ah!
A cr ^
/

All L ‘harriot, ‘at present I am aimott qualified to be a straw crowned rqajesty.
From the above introduction you may imagine I am left at the disposal of the fickle goddess Fortune for my future fub fistcnce. What a weary pilgrimage have Sin view. — Aks! I cannot proceed.
I
A fortnight has elapsed since my fate has been determined : I can scarce yet be calm— — friends are all stead — they condemn me. -- -- -- -- 1 wonder not, appearances
are severely against me: perhaps in affluence I have myself joined in condemning the innocent; for how liable are we mortals to error; it is our tremendous Judge only who can fathom hearts, and discover
virtue or vice in them -- -- -- -- to each other
we are unjust.
** Birds feed on birds, beads on each other prey.
But savage man alone doss man betray j “prefs’d by necefllty, they kill for food, y Man undoes man to do hiinfelsno good.’*
I dropped my pen, that I might, if possible, assume more fortitude to continue my epistle -- -- -- what I had written
Seemed the effusions of a distempered brain. Ah! philosophy, religion, be
my
I
 . 3
my guides, laid 1; teach me to bear loss of reputation, and loss of fortune, with more moderation : yet, reputation, when thou art stead, never, ah! never, canst thou be regained! — 1 went down to the parlour, and was there informed my noble relations were gone out in the carriage; upon which, taking up a lute, I retired to the garden : words Suitable to my distressed mind accompanied the instrument, a shower of tears fell, which in Some measure relieved the extreme oppression I felt at heart, and I am returned with more composure to reassume my pen.
The Earl and countess of N -- -- -- -- -- -- -
insist on my leaving their house tomorrow- -- -- -- can no longer with decorum
harbour me.” Was I really the infamous creature they believe me to be, would not their unkind behaviour and want of benevolence precipitate me still deeper into perdition? thoughtless people! How many unhappy prostitutes that traverse the streets hourly imprecate the wrath of Heaven on their obdurate friends, for unkindly and inhumanly con signing them to such rhifery for perhaps one false step! Some of them, undoubtedly, whilst heartfelt agonies and the deepest Sorrow and repentance were urging
B 2, them
✓

them on to the path of virtue, by the cruelty and obduracy of those friends in repulsing their efforts of return to rectitude, occasioned by keen Sensations, have been driven back to irremediable vice. Those ilbnamed friends have much to an ifwer for. Ala! poor wretches, con tcience must condemn them, and point out that they might have saved a fellow-creature from ruin, whom they consigned to infamsy and everlasting perdition. What Iiorror in Such whispers from the heart! But let us bid adieu to these melancholy ideas, and Surrender the objects to the mercy of that Being who has promilcd to listen to the petitions of repentant sinners.
Thou art now my Hariot, the only friend I have remaining. How canst thou dare befriend one the whole world condemns? I shall hasten to thee soon: : the mean time, try all in thy power to promote the scheme I mentioned in my
last -- find out some old lady who will
receive me as a companion; the more immersed she is in Solitude the better; company is not Suitable for my present or future Situation. Never must I again appear in the world; its censure has driven me from it. I prefer dependance to business;; urges it; have I not been a Marchioness?? also, would disgrace

  1 F E. 5
grace my relations too much; tho’ what the lofty term a toad eater is not preferable in my opinion, and barely a genteel state of servitude. However, my dearest Harriot, my plan is fixed; Such is my intention, if possible to procure the situation
I mentioneti.
✓
Lady N -- -- -- -- has just been to take her
final leave of me. There being a stranger below, I slipped in my chamber.
“Here, said her Ladyship, presenting me with a hundred pound note, is the last favour or notice you must ever expect from
me. -- -- We desire never, to See your Sace
again, except we hear you: amend your conduct.” —, ‘adicui” 'added she Scornfully, and bounced out of the room.
Such a farewell was what I expected. I curtsyedtubmission to her Ladyship, and wiped away the tears her reproaches had
eaused. -- -- Yet wshv do I blame her or
the world. My perfidious Melville is the viper that has destroyed my good name. — Alas! — but I must not arraign Providence. -- -- Adieu to complaints. — From
henceforward receive me as miss Silcna Howard;; second feigned appellation. The Marquis has stained my real one,
B ^ therefore

therefore for the future I must wrap myself in a cloud of oblivion. — In London I will not be vijible. Ireland! thou at present to me an unknown Spot, may’st thou be more propitious! — May I at least find a peaceful Solitary retreat in thee! But, oh! my Harriot, let me not converse on the author of my ruin — on him who should have been my protector. Let all thoughts of him be banished from my memory; thinking will only add to my pain; it will never assist me to conquer it. Unconnected as I am with any one but you, I must consider the characters I meet with in life as puppets in a show, and laugh at their absurdity; tho’ satire is So dangerous and unlaudable an adherent, that I almost fear adopting it, lest it should prove my mas ter, and never quit me.
, Adieu! my uncommon friend. Happiness, eternal happiness, attend you!
silena Howard;
f
9
Lori
%
\
H U M A N LIFE;)
Lori villars to Duncan Paris
I AM doom’d, Duncan, to be the victim of woman My wretchedness increases. You know I left London to avoid my faithless wife, whose criminality I suppose will Soon be made public. My uncle has undertaken to free me by the laws of the land, — Proofs will shon appear against her. — She is too abandoned for me to attempt shielding a reputation she has long convinced the world she has lost. I never loved her, but I pitied her inattention to. lierfelf.
Banished London by Sliame for her guilty conduct, I ranged the country,, and in this serious mood arrived at the Earl of
H -- -- -- -- ’s, in Yorkshire, almost forfwearr
ing all the sex.
Lord and Lady N- -- -- -- -- -, Servants
informed me,, were gone to take an airing; therefore I strolled into the garden. Hearing at a distance the sound of a lute tuning, I pursued it till I arrived behind an arbour which in a manner hung over a pond of gold sish., On the rising bank sst a young lady, uncommonly beautiful:,
B 4, attired

attired in deep mourning. A melancholy was diffused over her lovely countenance. After playing the symphony, she sung the following words:
O Death I why— — doll thou fly the wretched?
Approach, and teruiinate my woes. Approach, O Death!
Then (hall my innocence appear; I shall triumph — (hall triumph o’er my foes :
Slander (hall be vaiiqukhcd — the guilty (hall tremble.
O Death! why, c.
While she Sung, the pearly drops ran
down her cheek. — She finished. -- -- -- -- -- Her
melting notes still dwelled upon my ear I longed to approach her, biit I feared to
offend. -- -- -- 1 dared not interrupt her diss
tress. Putting down the instrument, she burst into an agony of grief, and extended herself on the grass for about the space
of ten minutes; -- -- -- then, raising herself,
“True, said she, thou noble maximist; past and future evils are easily subdued, but the present claims too large a portion of philosophy for feeble woman to sustain. Why, ah! why cannot I prove Such heroism??
Soul, to loftier regions take thy flight,
Entomb thy Sorrows in the veil of Night j
Oh!
\
 . j
h!! my mind above the vulgar Soar,
Calmly religa’d, dill Providence adorc.” ^
- s
J
She Sat for some moments with her i hands folded and her charming eyes lifted.
towards Heaven. -- -- -- At last, seemingly
more composed, she arose, and, taking up the lute, returned, with a majestic air, to the houle. There, Duncan, I lost her,
I fear, forever;. Her beauty — her afisect** ing nutiner — is past description In short,
Chaiies, I find. myself'very unhappy on her account. — I wish to know who she is — I wish to relieve her. distress — but no trace of her can I find
That night I promised myself the hap pineus of her company, — but no fair one
appeared.l After supper Lady N -- -- -- -- -- -
withdrew, and in less than ten minutes returned again.
“How did she receive it” said h ' Lordship.,
“Properly, ” returned she, with a toss of her head, which signified “Say no more”
Not able to contain myself any longer within bounds, I hope, Madam, said I, your Ladyship has not made a stranger of me, or that I have been the means of preventing any friend of yours from ap
B 5 pearing
)
pearing at Supper, I think, added I care lefsly, a lady was walking in the garden when I first arrived; Surely she did not absent herself on my account.
^ Lady N -- -- -- -- coloured. By no means,
my Lord, returned she; that person is not well, and chooses to remain in her chamber.
I bowed, and soon after retired to mine.
Two days passed, Duncan, in which I hoped for a glimpse of the fair unknown. — My hopes were vain. Out of patience, I ventured to attack Lord N —, ' ar inquire after her health.
She is better, and at London by this time, I suppose, returned he.
The sternness with which he answered me obliged me to drop the subject. I then questioned Dumont, my valet, about the family, and with a negligent air Said I wondered who the lady was I had Seen in the garden.
Why I can gain very little account about her, please your Lordship, Said he, tho’ my curiosity was awakened by your lordship’s description of her; and, finding she did not appear at supper, I asked Mr, Trim bush. He said as how she had
been here these two months, and that his
Lord
\
H U M A N L I F E. 11
Lord and Lady called her miss Avelini. The servants suppose she is an Italian, for they always talked in that language, he said;; — she was very melancholy, and never appeared before company; and the day after our arrival a post chaife and four came early in the morning, and she went away in it. Lady N — — ~’s maid cried aftersher, and said she was a sweet youngs lady, tho’ she did not know who she was, — but that for certain she was a foreigner, for miss herself told her So : — and that’s all I know about her, - please your Lordship, ”; concluded hci
Humph! Said I Smiling, ’tis rather a' mysterious history. don’t the Servants, know where she is gone.?
No, ray Lord, they only imagine to some friends at London; as she’hinted So to Mrs. Kitty; and by this time she mush be got there, as she went post.
Dismissing Dumont, I re assumed my reflections. They were displeasing ones.’ I was acting contrary to the rules of honour, at least my own rules; for the fashionable ones, you know, Charles, I discard. My wife’s infidelities have long been the discourfe of the polite world. I knew she deserved its censure, but proofs of’her guilt I could not obtain. Since my departure
\
V
I
J
ture she has been lesson her guard; Capt.
F .... — frequently passes the night with
her; therefore in all probability we Shall Soon be disunited. Though I never lov’d her, nay, never even esteemed her, yet I cannot help allowing her Some pity. Perhaps I feel more for her than she does for herself. Yet shrely, when thoroughly awakened from the abyss of pleafiire by the torch of divine truth, who will display her crime unveiled to an unpitying world, happy when they find a sort of justice in censure. She will repent; for her own Sake I hope she will Spend the remainder of her days in penitence and retirement. Situated, therefore, as I am — a hujband — till that tie is dissolved I cannot with honour pursue, or make any further inquiry after, the charming Avelini. I find Love a tyrant; it combats with me against reason. Let me tell thee, Duncan, I never imagined that it could disorder the mind of man as it does mine at present. — Yet genuine love is a refined passion, it dwells not in lewd minds — it Seeks the welfare of the object, and leads to virtue, honour, every noble sentiment— — I rave. — Soon I hope to have it in my power, with decorum, to inquire of Lord N— — mv charming enoaver, Two divorces
have
%
 .
have taken place lately, mine will be the third. — Proofs of the gallantry of this age — melancholy proofs! Had I loved Lady Villars as I adore Avelini, what a wretched being must I have languished out the remainder of my days! But innocence is displayed in she countenance of my lovely maid. I am certain, notwithstanding dumont’s account, by the words I heard her utter, she is an Englishwoman, or has been here ever since her infancy.
I am confident, also, she has every virtue that can ennoble the soul. — Vet she is unhappy — seems persecuted shy fortune. To prove the lucky wight to fet her free from misfortune’s power shall be my wish and ambition. Soon again thou shalt hear froib
villarsi
>4
Miss Howard to Mtfs miynels
London]
I FEAR my long silence has given you various opinions conceining me, my dear Harriot; but I am certain none of them were to my disadvantage Your ideas of friendship are too refined to distrust the
continuance
k.
%
14
continuance of hers, whose esteem, was it formed by the common ties of those we frequently'meet with, must seemingly continue to strengthen her own interest, lost as She is to all the world beside. But our hearts were cemented in our early years, never but by the king of terrors to be disunited. How often lately have I invoked his aid! Perhaps I am reserved for greater troubles. -- Yet why Should I repine
? Alas! I fear ’fis pride that bends my stubborn soul, and overpowers me. base passion, avaunt! Are not the poor and rich equally the fons and daughters of the Almighty.?, While we are in possession of virtue, let us smile with contempt
on the riches or this sublunary world. --
Slaves, perhaps, in one hour, the next > enjoying immortal bliss. We may compare ourselves to travellers; cannot we learn, then, to bear a few insults on the road, when our journey is to be so soon terminated Alas! the theory is easy, but the practice difficult indeed.
A few hours after finishing my last letter I left Laurel Grove, and, arriving safe at York, determined to be conveyed to London in the Fly, as the most eligible manner, having now no servants to attend me. In this vehicle I found a lady, about five and thirty years of age, of a very
agreeable
 . 15
agreeable aspect' and interesting address. She endeavoured to dissipate the gloom which appeared too visible on miy countenance; told diverting tales; and for a few moments made me almost forget my afflictions. Thus familiarised, she asked mje to what part of London I was going; I answered, to my lodgings at Mrs.
more’s, in B -- -- -- Street. Ah! said she,
with a pleasing surprise in her looks, Mrs. More is a very worthy woman; I live in the same street, and shall be very happy, miss, if you will often favour me with the pleasure of your company.
Returning her thanks, I answered I should be proud of her friendship, and would Sometimes trouble her while at Mrs. more’s, but my stay there would not be of long duration I believed.
We insensibly became more agreeable to each other, my dear Harriot, and at the end of our journey parted with reluctance. She insisted upon my dining with her the next day. I eagerly inquired her character of Mrs. More, who informed me she was a lady of good family, and much caressed by her friends, who were all people in high life; that her fortune was but moderate, ■ but, being generally beloved by her friends and relations, she passed very
little
6
little of her time at home: This news was far from displeasing to me, as I had flattered myself she would serve me if in her power.
I had given her as yet no account of myself, though' Isherceived her curiosity was awakened; but her politeness withheld her from interrogatories. It was necessary I should Say Somethings Generous Sentiments arose on the sursaee, and almost determined me to make a stranger acquainted with my real misfortunes; but powerful reflection Soon returned,, and made me reject that determination. Would a stranger believe me innocent when Such strong proofs appeared of my guilt.? Alas! I could scarce disapprove her want of faith, which might be the consequence. My history So uncommon a one, would she not imagine me an adventurer? Fiction, dissimulation, I concluded, must be my resource.
I went according to promise. She received me with open arms. We dined. She offered me her friendship in the most obliging manner. I informed her that a near relation, with whom T had lived, having died not long since without providing for me, I was left in a manner destitute, and obliged to Seek Some means of
livelihood j
 . 17
livelihood; that, as I had been always in genteel life, I determined, if possible, to find some lady to whom I might be companion, on. which plan I was going to Ireland. I further informed her where a dear and valuable friend was endeavouring to procure a place Suitable for me.
My new friend promised her endeavours Should not be wanting for my w'el fare, and wished me fuceefs and happiness— — discourse ensued, and at last I took my leave, promising to wait on her the next day to tea.
The time arrived. When I entered, she took me by the hand. Will you pardon the liberty I have taken, miss, Said she; there are So many imposing adventurers in the world, that, notwithstanding your outward appearance was so prepossessing, I could Scarce trust it. I knew Mrs. More to be a woman of veracity, therefore Sent for her this morning to inquire particulars concerning you. She satisfied my Scruples, by assuring me you was recommended to her
by Lady N -- -- -- -, from whose house you
are just returned. No doubt therefore remaining, I must implore your pardon for daring to take So great a liberty, and inform you that it was occasioned by
having
;
having a settlement in view, which I thought you might approve. In justice to my friends, I could not introduce to them a person whose character I was not certain would bear ferutiny; and suppose,
should they require it. Lady N -- -- -
would not be against writing a line in your favour.
Heavens! my dear Harriot, till then I recollected not that disadvantage— — blushed, not knowing what answer to give; however, I at last stammered out.
Lady N -- -- -- -, Madam, would perhaps
honour me sofar, but such a request would be an impertinence of which I had much rather not be guilty. — — miss Meynell, who resides with her aunt. Lady Lorton, will thoroughly Satisfy the lady concerning me. She was my schoolfellow- -- --
mean not, ray amiable friend, interrupted vshe, impertinently to catechize you. I have heard Sufficient to be Satisfied concerning you. was it myself, I should not trouble any person, neither do I think my friends will, when L write
them particulars -- -- She then informed
me, that Mr. Villars was the youngest brother of a late Lord of the same name; that his father had intended him for the arpny, which he, being of a studious turn,
did
 . 19
did not approve. Lord Villars, a month or two before he intended to purchase a commission for his Son, accidentally became acquainted with Mr. Davies, a Welsh gentleman of great fortune. Mr. Davies had a daughter, who was foie heiress to his estate. Lord Villars thought Inch an opportunity was not to be missed, and proposed a match between Mr. vii lars and the young lady. Mr. Davies readily consented, as it gratified his pride to marry his daughter into So noble a family. Mr. Villars was commanded to pay his addresses to miss Davies. He expostulated on the cruelty of compelling him to marry a woman almost void of natural understanding, — a woman totally different from his taste, and whom he could never love. But his arguments were in vain. My Lord swore he should either marry her, or be alienated from his family. Finding all remonstrances disregarded, Mr. Villars was forced to comply, rather than submit to beggary. When the nuptial knot was tied, he conveyed his bride to elysium place, and they have remained ever since in that Solitary retreat, where they now reside. Mr. Davies died in a Sew months aster their marriage. A cousin of Mrs. Villars, having little or no fortune, resided with
them
>
them as a companion, but died lately r upon which Mr. Villars applied to Mrs.. Gordon to recommend one to supply her place. “If you think, concluded She, miss Howard, you can be content with lb retired and confined a situation, Speak, and. I will immediately write to Mr. Villars.’”
“Such a Soliuide is my utmost ambition, Madam, if they can approve of me from miss meynell’s recommendation
— Lady N -- -- -- ” — I burst into tears,.
unable to proceed.
“You have been ill treated by her, I see plainly, my dear miss Howard, returned she. Mr. Villars shall take you. from my recommendation alone — I am Sensible you will never give 'me reason to repent it.”
‘‘ I will not — indeed I will not, Madam, ” was all I was able to utter for some moments. She endeavoured to footff me by Saying the virtuous were always the peculiar care of Providence., 1 am Sensible of it Madam, returned I at last you are one of its instruments sent to comfort me, and I hope Some time hence will find it is not on an ungrateful or very unworthy object.
She sat down to write immediately, and I took up a book to divert my melancholy reflections while she was employed
 . ai
ployed. 1 nave oeen witri' her every day since, and find her so very amiable, that it is with difficulty I can conceal from her my genuine misfortunes. She expects an answer from Mr. Villars every day; but, as you will be impatient to hear from me, I will wait no longer for it. Do you think I may venture to unbosom myself to my new friend Mrs, Gordon? If you coincide with my inclination, which is strongly bent on ex plicitness, Send me the letters I wrote to you from Montpelier, cas they will Save me the trouble of a recital which will too fensibly affect me. Write an immediate answer, my dear Harriot, to
Your ever ^ectionate
silena Howards
4
Mif$
2
t
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.
Elyfum flace.
1 ES, I am arrived hither, my dearest Harriot. The day following that on which I dispatched my letter to you, Mrs. Gordon received one from Mr. Villars, approving her recommendation, and adding, that his friend and neighbour, Mr. Shenkin, was in town, with his female appurtenances, which he thought a fortunate event, as he hoped they would afford me a corner of their coach to elysium place. He had written to Mr. Shenkin on the fulyect, who was to inform Mrs. Gordon if he had no objection.
While I was Sitting with my friend that very evening Mr. Shenkin was announced. He is esteemed a worthy, friendly man, but unhappily has a grotesque appearance. He is short and sat, with small eyes, and a face so red and carbuncled, that the beholder must infer from it the possessor is frequently guilty of inebriety; tho’ appearances often deceive us.
Your
n U M A N L I F E. 25
lour larvant, iviatam, laia northeast, as northeast entered the room; I was determined to take the first hopportunity to show my friendship for Mr. Pillars; and, as I was dressed for Ranelagh, my daughter win ny said I had better show myself to the best advantage, as you was a stranger. — She understands decorum, I assure you, Matam.
I don’t in the least doubt it, Sir, returned Mrs. Gordon; but I am happy t see my friends in any dress.
The Servant put forward a chair for him.
You Lontoners, Matam, > are all courtiers, said he; Cot plefs me, this is the youngdaddy I suppose I am to take charge of to nebbour Filiars.
I curtefyed an affirmative. Mrs. Gordon could with difficulty retain her countenance, but entreated him to be Seated.
To be Sure, laddys, Said he, (after trying several times to sit down without breaking his sword)) warlike accoutrements are not calculated for peace or us country shentlemen.
True, Sir, returned Mrs. Gordon.’
He with a little warmth strove to extricate his sword from the chair, and Snapped the blade in the middle.
Wounds!
9
4
Wounds! laid he, this is the conic quence of wearing troublesome pur tenances one is not accustomed to. i’ll have an iron one rhade — — what matters it so the sheath hides it, and there is a decent hilt; for certain I could not break that, and shall please my poor girl Winny by being dressed, as she says, like a shentle
man." -- -- -- But you must excuse me,
laddys — plague take this thing — you must excuse me — I must haste home, and send
for another -- -- -- No time is to be lost.
-- -- -- -1 will call again tomorrow, and
talk concerning our travels, — Your far vant, said he, bovnshg in a hurry, and departed.
Thus, my dear Harriot, ended our first interview with Mr. Shenkin. It will let you a little into his character, and perhaps divert you. Before misfortunes were heaped So fast upon me, I should myself have laughed at his Singularity; nay, I must confess on the road he frequently revived my long dormant risibility, which I was obliged to assign to other causes than himself and family.
The day after his first visit to Mrs. Gordon he paid a second, and introduced his beloved daughter and her mother. As I know you are fond of characters,
I Will
 . 25
I will endeavour to describe them, though
I have very little skill ip that art. It is proper to bgin first with Mrs. Shenkin.
She is about sixty years of age, very short, and almost of a breadth equal to her height. Her face, as well as Mr. shenkin’s is unfortunately very red, and full of pimples. As her daughter. is extravagantly fond of fashion, she has perfiiaded her to have a wig, So enor mously widened wuth wool and hair, that the beholder who has Sensibility must be in continual anxiety when she moves her head, lest the load should fail and display her baldness. She is good-natured, but has Some share of pride, and is a genealogist. She boasts much of her knowledge in cookery, and has herself had the ingenuity to invent Several made dishes.
miss Shenkin is the doting piece of her father and mother, who seldom or never contradict her. She is about’ thirty years of age, tall, thin, hard featured, and naturally pale; but the latter defect she remedies by a good quantity of rouge, which she alleges no people of fashion sail making useof; shay, that it is absolutely as necessary as powder. I had a longing desire to tell her they put it on
vol. I. C more
26
more juaiciouiiy men, tor i really was ashamed to be Seen, with her on the road, she was so bedaubed. She has likewise been improving herself in Italian, in which language She would frequently converse with me, and laugh at her parents rusticity. The worst of a state of dependance is the not being at liberty to reprove ourfuperiors for their follies. miss Shenkin, like all Spoiled children, is of a violent disposition, but very aflhble while you coincide with her opinion. I only answered, that Mr. and Mrs. shen kin made amends for their rusticity by the; goodness of their hearts. “True, Howard, returned she, but it is impossible to forbear laughing at their extreme simplicity.” In short, Harriot, to conclude this lady’s character, she is girlish, fantastical, and coquetish.
But let me return to my worthy friend Mrs. Gordon.
A week after the Shenkins were introduced to us, they fixed a time for our departure. We Saw it arrive with regret. — My new Friend osten shed tears at the thoughts of our separation— — was moved
likewise- -- ingratitude would have
been unpardonable if I had not, obligated as I am to her for an asyliim, and by chance
conducted
 , 27
conducted to her friendship, which makes her benevolence still rise Superior to common acts.
Your kind letter came timely to recruit my spirits- -- -- -- -- agree that I
should intrust this amiable woman with my history. 1 have therefore promised her, that when your packet comes to, hand, I will forward it by the fiist opportunity, and give a concise account of myself, which time would not then permit.
miss Shenkin pouted a little at leaving London, but her father telling her it was better for her health, and she should return next winter, a more pleasant humour Succeeded.
We alighted the third evening at an inn on the borders of Wales. aster tea miss Shenkin entreated me to walk with her. In my situation it would have been impertinent to resuse. The evening was
very warm. — At a distance we perceived a shady grove.
Heavens! Said she, my dear Howard, let us hasten to that delightful retreat — perhaps the charming Zephyr loiters there, and will afford us a gentle breeze.
Why, Madam, as we are alone, it is not so proper to venture, for” — — r —
C 2 “O, for
»
ss
“O, for pity’s Sake, stop, ma bella si lena, Said she; you need not fear, — here are no beaus to tempt us.”
“As to beaus, according to the strict propriety of that word, returned I, I readily allow there would belittle danger: — Love is centred in themselves — they wish only to display their fine deaths and genteel address. — But, instead of them, we may meet with robbers -- or rude country ’squires, who” -- -- --
“Well, J am in Spirits, Said she, to run the hazard; it would only be an adventure.” -- -- --
“An adventure !” echoed your friend. “Aye, come along, ” Said she, taking me under the arm. — We Soon arrived at the grove.
-- -- -- — Oh! kind retreat.
To shield one from the sultry heat, ”
repeated she, Sealing herself at the foot of a tree, and desiring me to sit by her.
Night approached — -- -- -- -- no creature
was to be Seen -- -- -- -1 began to be alarmed. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- f
“For heaven’s Sake, Silena, enchant
me with your delightful voice — Echo resides here — she will answer you.”
“Oh!
' . 29
“Oh! by no means. ma’am, at present; let us, I conjure, return to the inn.
-- -- -1 can’t bear the gloom of this place —
it reminds me of the for rows I have met with in life.” -- --
If you will not sing, I must, with my discordant Sounds, Said She, and began with
\
“Che faro senz i Eurldice, ” ca
gentleman rushed from behind the tree. -- -- Enchanting creature, Said he, catching her in his arms, thy tones would move the dead by their hideousness, but the charms of thy person make ample recompense.
— -- -- Another came forward, but,,
perceiving by my countenance that I was in extreme terror, heshowed respectfully, and said, I hope, Madam, you will ex cuse my friend’s behaviour -- -- -- hers mistaken -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- be not alarmed, we will conduct
you back Safe to the inn. Then going to speak to his companion, he
started,. Good God! -- -- -- -- -- -- miss
Shenkin! -- -- -- 1 hope your worthy father is
well.”
“We left him fojust now, Sir, ” returned she, with affectation.
My neighbour’s daughter, my Lord.”
His
w
o
His friend begged pardon for his rude behaviour, and was introduced as Lord Clandon.
miss Shenkin likewise found an opportunity to inform me her nighbour was Mr. Clairville, who had about five years before bought an estate in their neighbourhood.
The gentlemen conducted us with the greatest civility and politeness back to the inn : but, if we had been strangers, Lord ciandon’s first address Seemed to threaten different, and disagreeable treatment, which I endeavoured afterwards to make miss Shenkin apprehend; but she would not allow that she had deviated from rectitude. 'CS
At our return her father was very glad to meet Mr. Clairville. Lord Clandon was introduced to him. They soon got sociable over a bottle, and all was harmony.
miss Shenkin fixed her attention on Lord Clandon, as she flattered herself She bad made a conquest. His Lordship observed, with a leer to Mr. Clairville and myself, that he never beheld (o blooming a complexion; then joined in entreating a Song of me, as he had heard miss shenkin’s request in the grove. The old folks
Seconded
 . 31
skconded them, and desired their daughter to usher forth her new guittar for me to accompany a long with. -- -- -- It was produced.
Tho’ my Spirits were reduced to. the lowest ebb, not to appear obstinate and ill natured, I complied. Their politenesa made them pass encomiums on my performance beyond its desert"
"gentlemen accompanied us to shen kin fiall. Mr. Clairville treated me wuth the greatest respecst. Lord Clandon, when he had an opportunity, professed a passion for me. Such a declaration afforded me
great pain -- -- -1 could only reject him by
alleging the difference of our situation in life; but I suppose his designs are not honourable, tho’ he believes me unmarried. -- -- Few men chuse to take a partner
for life without fortune, especially those of So gay a turn as Lord Clandon. The dif siculty of a married woman’s being admitted into a family made me choose a maiden appellation; tho’ it will, I begin to fear,, precipitate me into many disagreeable situations. There is Something extremely shocking in being addressed, conscious as I am my real situation will not admit of it, tho’ deferred by my husband, Good God !' how cruelly am I plunged into distress! — ■ I must not dwell orf this dreadful Subject,
it
2
it tears my heart, and almost overpowers ray fenses.
Mr. Villars did me the honour to come hinifelf in his carriage to convey me to Elysium place. He received me in a polite friendly manner. I was much affected, and trembled exceedingly, at my introduction to him, from reflecting upon the way of life I was entering into, and doubting whether I should be capable of pleasing Mrs. Villars. At last I made shift to utter that I hoped his lady would not be displeased with me, and that I would use my best endeavours to make myself agreeable to her.
Be composed, miss, returned Mr. Villars, kindly taking hold of my hand, I make no doubt of her being very happy in your friendship, from your own appearance, and the recommendation of our worthy friend Mrs. Gordon, besides the applauses of this family.
I could scarce forbear shedding tears, my dear Harriot; but my strong efforts against them happily prevailed, yet I could only courtesy thanks to Mr. Villars for his compliment.
I have been too short a time with Mrs.
Villars
H U M A N L I F E. 52
Villars to judge of her thoroughly, my dear friencl.' Hitherto she appears of an easy disposition, but very weak intellects. She laughs, incessantly, either at trifles or nothing. Mr. Villars is very polite and kind to her, but ’tis easily perceived that proceeds from the goodness of his heart, not his love for her, Tho’ I really do not think her a disagreeable woman as to person, yet, to a man of his refined, sentiments and excellent understanding, such a wife must at first have occasioned many an unhappy hour, as she was not capable of enjoying the amusements in which he delighted. He is extremely fond ol music, and plays admirably on several instruments. She has no taste for music, or improvement of the mind by reading. Mr. Villars, finding the latter amusement agreeable to me, is So obliging as to read to us often when we are at work. His lady frequently elopes from us, especially since he has been reading. belisarius, which she laughs at, and says it is a, dull,, stupid story; She happened to be present at the conclusion of it, which you know runs thus: “But, alas! he did “not survive long enough for. the good of mankind in general, and the glory of his rpaster. The Emperor, quite
C 5 ‘‘ enseebled
I THE MUTABH.TTV OF
“enfeebled and dispirited, in the eve of “life, paid the tribute of a tear to the “memory of his departed hero, and “with that'ssiort regret all the good
councils of Belisarius passed away, and “left no trace behind.”
Mrs. Villars burst out a laughing immoderately, Saying, “i’m Sure the Emperor was much in the right of it — I am quite of his opinion — What signifies
remembering such a pack of stuff? -- -- --
I declare I have forgot every syllable i’ve heard.” Such is the woman I am going to pass my days with, my dear friend. It is time for me to think of concluding this long epistle.
I shall Qxpect soon to receive your packet of letters, that I may fulfil my promise to my worthy Mrs. Gordon. How thankful ouoht I to be to Providence for conducting me to this solitude— — situation of it is delightful. — Yet, alas! my misfortunes. Spite of all efforts against it, will arise to my remembrance.. The ocean, when calm, recalls to my mind happier days, when a tender father and affectionate husband soothed my hours in peace and. love — but when the billows foam, 1 am all perturbation and distraction with it — I foresee the gloominess
and misery of my future days, almost
 . st
most forget the resignation and duty i owe to that omnipotent Being who formed me, and blush at my owm weakness. Such is the state of human nature, willing to do what is right, yet actingssiero gatory to thaf will. How frail is mortality! — ^ — But I forget that I had flattered you with hopes of a conclusion to this wearisome epistle, and that it is high time to Sign myself
Yours most affectionately,
Silena Howard:.
«
.'A
IT
%
Miss H0WA.RD to Miss Meynel.
1
Elyfim place.
X TAKE the earliest opportunity, my
dear friend, of returning you thanks for the packet, which I received very safe, and have forwarded to Mrs. Gordon. The introductory part, w’liich it was necessary to prefix, afforded me great pain in the recital.
When,
;
When, oh! when shall I reassume my
accustomed cheerfulness! The recollec
✓
tion of being almost a vagrant on earth almost overpowers me at times.
I feel much for Mrs. villars’s want of sense : she will laugh as much at an affecting story as at a mirthful one. Mr. Villars, though accustomed to her manner, visibly receives a great shock from it before company. How unsuitably are they paired! But joy complete is not the lot of humanity, and for the best of purposes it is so appointed. This life is only a state of probation. Temporal good is too apt to lessen our dependance upon the great Author of our existence, relax our endeavours to please him, and endanger our eternal felicity. Resignation and patience in afflictions, therefore, are very necessary to promote our happiness both here and hereafter.
I lose a great deal of diversion, I imagine, by not understanding the language of this country. The principal farmers wives (let not the idea of English ones enter your head) have sometimes the honour of sipping tea with us. Mr. Villars seems entertained with their simplicity, and recitals of news, while your.
friend, like a fool is obliged to be Silent,
and
 . jy
0
\
and gains nothing by her attention. — Adieu! my Harriot.
Yours Sincerely,
Silena howards
Miss Howard to Mrs. gordohs
Elyfuim placr.
Jn the midsl of my afflictions, whas consolation was it to meet with a friend whose heart was governed by the dictates of humanity, and' who, unprejudiced by the maxims of the world, dared to take an entire stranger under her protection! — Such a one I found in you Madam; the remembrance of it will never be erased from my heart, was I to live for ages. — • My gratitude and friendship for my dear Mrs. Gordon will never cease, till I cease to breathe. She has sent me to an asy lum of peace, at least as much tranquillity as my soul is capable of receiving, till! time has in some measure worn off the recollection of my late sorrows. Mrs. Villars is exceedingly kind to me;
Mr.
.■r
1 THE MUTABILITY OP
Mr. Villars treats me with the affection of a parent. How can I be better Situated?
Must I awake So tender a heart to woe as that of my ever dear, my amiable friend? Why did you desire it.? I wish for both our sakes the task was cornpleated. I begin, Madam.
My father was -- -- -- -- alas! already my
tears begin to flow. Did that dear parent still exist, Melville dared not have blasted a reputation that -- -- Pardon my incoherence,
dear Mrs. Gordon; I will, if possible, fuppress the torrent that rushes forth,
and well nigh overwhelms me. -- -- -- -- But
resolutions are sooner formed than preserved.
My father was the third Son of the Earl of Walters, his name Belmont. He had just attained his one and twentieth year, when my grandfather died, leaving him lojoool. He was then an ensign in the guards, but soon after marrying, miss nai lor, he Sold out, and they Settled in a house afiew’ miles from London.
My mother was sister to Lady N -- -- -- -- -.
They both had very small fortunes, though great connexions, and were first cousins
to the Duke of -- -- -- -- --. I was the only
child my parents ever had, undoubtedly therefore was treated with the greater tenderness, and when of a proper age was put
into
 . sr
into one of the greatest schools (or at least one that bore the greatest name) in London. There I met with my dear Harriot
Meynel -- -- -- there we formed a friendship
in our infant years which has continued to a maturer age.
Mr. Meynel was a clergyman, who had a small living in Berkshire. miss Murray and her Sister, on a visit in that neighbourhood, became acquainted with him. They were of a good family, but their father lost his fortune by gaming : he had been lucky enough, however, to procure a place under government, which Supported them gentcely, nay, elegantly; but no provision was made for their Subsistence after his death. He hoped, that, as they were handsome women, they would make their fortunes by marriage; a very precarious chance. At that period, indeed, he had Some reason for this hope, as the Eari of Lorton was then paying his addresses to the elder miss Murray. Love prevented the other from making her fortune according to his wishes. She and Mr. Meynel exchanged affections. Her sister, who always had high ideas, and a great deal of pride, reproved her for being so mean fpirited — Her father stormed — But all was to no purpose. The lovers chosc to embrace a limited income tosether, rather
V / 7
than
3
than be Separated : they married. Her sister from thenceforward cast osss all regard for her, and Soon after gave her hand to the Earl of Lorton.
Mi's. Meynel, neglected by her father and Sister, was, notwithstanding, very happy with her husband, and frequently indulged with the company of her dear friend Mrs. Moreton. About four years after their, marriage Harriot was born. Mrs. Moreton, who was indefatigable in their favour, made interest and procured Mr. Meynel a living about that time, of six hundred a year.
Mr. Murray died wuthout feeing Mrs. Meynel, and left fcarely a fussiciency to pay his debts.
Mr. meynel’s income being increased; at a proper age. they sent their beloved daughter to the school where I found her, from whence she often used to visit Mrs. Moreton. Before we left school Mrs. Meynel died. At length Harriot returned to her father. He fell ill. He had saved but a few hundreds. What was to become of his darling.? She was beautiful to excess; but beauty is only a Snare to betray its possessor.. He trembled for her fate, and was in great anxiety on her account, when he received the following note from
Mrs.
 . 41
Mrs Moreton, who was at London, and had heard of his dangerous illness.
LET not care for your child embit:
J
ter your last moments, my dear Sir. My esteem for you, and regard for my ever arciiable and departed friend Mrs. Meynel, will make me endeavour all my weak efforts can for the welfare of their Harriot.
1 will strive to make Lord and Lady Lorton fensible of what they ought to do for her. Should they remain obdurate, she' shall be my adopted child. Calmly resign her, therefore, to me, while your disem bodicd soul takes its flight to that Elysium where all Sublunary afflictions are buried in oblivion. Adieu.
M. Moreton.”
%
Mrs. moreton’s letter had the desired effect. The good man, trusting in her and Providence, resigned his Soul to its Maker.
This worthy woman, being apprized of his death, immediately came and conveyed miss Meynel to London. Lord and Lady Lorton were then in Ireland. She wrote them word in the most affecting manner of harriot’s loss. They were not quite proof against her eloquence, and answered, that when they came to London they perhaps
might
>
might see her. Their only Son, whom they doted on, was then going on his travels, and was to Set out from Dublin at
“t
the same time they should fet out for Loi don,
Mrs. moreton’is health declined daily. Lady Lorton at last arrived. Mrs. Moreton Sent to inform her of her ill health and inability to wait on her, with the most Soothing intercession for her young friend Harriot. Lady Lorton honoured them with a visit, and complimented my friend on her beauty, withal advising her to make a better use of it than her mother had done, and promised to give her an opportunity by introducing her into public.
The worthy, the friendly Mrs. Moreton died, and left Harriot under the protection of her aunt. Miss Meynel shed many tears for the loss of her best friend. Lady lorton’s haughtiness at times dis quieted my amiable Harriot, notv/ith standing her vivacity, of which she has a great share. In public she was exceedingly admired, in private had many good offers; but, fortunately, no title making application, her aunt was not so much displeased at her refusing them. She took her to Dublin with the family, where they will continue till next winter. Lord and Lady Lorton, she finds, intend then to
leave
N
 . 43
leave her behind with an intimate friend in high life, to see if she can make her fortune there, or at least till their fon, who next winter is to return from his travels, is properly married, lest her beauty should ensnare him. Thus at present rests the Situation of my beloved Harriot Meynel..
After making you acquainted with my friend’s history, it is time to return to my own. At sixteen I was taken from school; half a year after which my tender and affectionate mother died — a loss irreparable. My father was almost inconlblable : and soon after, to heighten bis affliction, he lost his whole fortune by the bankruptcy of a merchant in whose hands he had lodged it, till he should purchase a landed estate which he had in view. His heart was almost broke at this Second shock: Folding me in his arms, he would often exclaim, ’tis for thee, my dear Adelaide, I weep.; as for myself, I shall not long
want it now my Almeria is gone -- -- -- -- -- but
for thee to be left a prey to inhuman strangers, without a parent to guide thee, or fortune to shield thee from the frowns of an unpitying world, alas! -- -- -- --
Ah! my dear, my honoured father, interrupted I, the virtuous precepts you have taught me will never be obliterated from my memory, — I hope you will live long
to
1
to guide me; but, should that blessing be denied, Providence, I trust, will direct and protect me. • The Almighty never forsakes the innocent: he has promised to become a father to the orphan, a friend to the distressed, if they invoke his succour.
My darling child, answered this tender parent, your Sentiments afford me un speakable pleasure. May you always continue to cherish them!
He wrote to the Earl his brother, who, tho’ he had not been an affectionate relation, then took compassion on us, Settled 400i. a year on my father during life, and promised to take care of me alter his dc ceale.
A heart formed like ray father’s, you may be sure, expressed his gratitude in the strongest tervns,
Some months after, his health declin ing, by the physician’s advice he consented ho go to Montpelier for its recovery. It amended a little. I corresponded with Miss Meynel, and gave her an account of every particular that passed; therefore will now refer you to my letters to her, as they contain my fentuments at the time they were written, and will Save me many a Severe pang, by relieving me from a fresh recital of my past misfortunes.
Miss
 . 45
Miss Belmont to Mss Meynel.
Montpelier,
Al HE amendment of my father’s health makes me quite happy. We have been together at a delightful concert, performed at Madame D’ancour ss; and Such
a youth was there, my dear Harriot! -- -- -
the ladies all doaton him, “he is So charmant f' in short, the Marquis'of Melville. has gained the appellation of the bei an glois. My heart is still cold as ice, tho’ I have received many douceurs from him; my dear girl. I think you would have retired with the loss of yours, as he has a great deal of vivacity, and is just what you admire. We have had a ball too, my Harriot, and he did me the honour to dance with me : but he has an earnestness in his expression, a kind of fury and fire in his deportment, that is to me disagreeable. My father admires him, therefore I am Silent. It matters not, as an acquaintance, what he is. The reason of his being here is to attend a rich old uncle, who was recommended to this place to.prolong his life.
> I was
.6 THIS MUTABILITY OF
0 ■ ^.
I was interrupted from my pen by a visit from the Marquis of Melville. Being alone, he made use of the opportunity feriously to declare a passion for me, which I returned as raillery, thinking it really so; but he assured me with the utmost earnestness he could not live without me. Oh!
what an Oroondates! -- -- -- quite a romance
hero.” His language made it very difficult for me to suppress laughter. 1 told his Lordship I found he had been Some time in France by his very gallant address. My father’s entrance relieved me, and I withdrew to inform you of my new lover. What do you think of my being a Marchioness?? forbid! -- -- -- at least that I
should become melville’s wife. His hasty temper would keep me in a continual terror and tremor. He has too much spirit for my taste. Adieu! my dear Harriot, Continue to love your very affectionate
Adelaide Belmont.
V
From
XX VJ iri rx IX j < i A
f rom the Same to the Same.
Montpelier.
►*
f
>
V
A.
. »
H! my dear friend, my fatherfs relapsed.
I am very uneasy 1 fear much
that he will never recover. This Mafquis, too, torments me past description; she is either with or writing to me continually. My father Seems to favour his addresses; that adds to my affliction, for to be Serious with you, my dear Harriot, the mar ejuis really has a violence of temper which would entirely prevent my loving him as a husband; I should rather fear him ajj a ty jant. — My father sends for me to attend him,
I am undone! -- 1 informed you of the
marquis’s hasty temper. he has artfully gained my father’s conlent a
private marriage too! — Good God! what
will
3 THF MUTABILITY OF
will become of me Must I disobey my father — let him retire with sorrow to his grave, by denying what I fear is his last ' request? Ah! no — I must not. Alas! he hourly declines : ’tis the height of his affection makes him exhort me to it.
“My Adelaide, said he, receive the Marquis when he next comes, as your husband.
-- -- He has my consent- -- -- -- for
'both your sakes the ceremony must be performed in private, as his uncle, on whom he depends for six thousand a year, would disinherit hihi, was he to know of it. He is in an ill state of health, as well as myself, therefore you will not long be obliged to preserve the Secret. The Marquis is handsome and' amiable; you have no prepoffession, therefore cannot reject him. Consent, my dear Adelaide, to let your marriage take place the day after tomorrow. I cannot survive many days, and it will make me die contented, as I shall then be certain of your being provided for. As to my brother, tho’ he has kindly bestowed his bounty upon me, I cannot be sure he will on you after my decease.
-- -- -- 1 have not confidence in him
concerning you. -- -- -- Will you consent,
Adelaide?”
Ah! Harriot, guess if you can the horror of my soul at such a request — the request
A
H U M A N n 1 B LI 49
queii or auying ratner. i nat uica iiiciuc
me immediately comply, “I consent. Sir, said I, if that will make you happy.” He thanked me, and I retired to weep. Yes, Harriot, I will facrisice myself for the Satisfaction of the tenderest of parents : but, alas! I cannot love the man destined to be my husband.
I have Seen the Marquis, who is in raptures at my consent. Oh! the vanity of his Sex! He imagines ifiy coolness to him proceeds from the being shocked at my dear parent’s approaching end. Undoubtedly I am severely so; but, if otherwise, I should behave the same to him Tomorrow — alas! tomorrow lam to become a bride! — a mournful one, indeed. The worthy and Rev. Mr. Blake, who is going to leave this place, is to unite us. This is the last time, therefore, your unfortunate friend will have a right to subscribe herself
Adelaide Belmont.
't
t
\
vol. I, D From
I
J
THE MUTABILITY GF
\
From the Same to the Same.
Montpelier.
M Y father Seems to acquire strength
and health, which enables me to bear with the greater fortitude my having been three days the wife of Melville. If the ladies of this place were acquainted with the secret, what an object of envy should I become } They are all enchanted with the Marquis, who has no eyes for any one but me. Indeed he is tender and affectionate, I ought now to have a reciprocal affection. -- -- -- 1 must, I will, bring myself to
esteem him. — But he has something in
his manner that terrifies me -- -- -- 1 cannot
•without restraj*"^ 'Acquaint him with my Sentiments. — He has not that sostness and delicacy in his manner which I should have looked for in a husband: : as my fate is fixed, I must make the best of it. He has given me a title — He has received me to his arms without a fortune — Where is my gratitude.? Alas! my Harriot, I reprove myself for the want of it in this point. How many would rgoice in my
Situation .J
 b L 51
ikuanon r vaniiy^ muu wuiucu aucnuant ss the female breast, whither art thou fled? Hither sty and lull mine to repose. Ah! my friend, in vain I invoke her aid, having hitherto rejected her. Reflection taught me to despise the transitory honours of
this variable world -- -- -- -- My wishes were
placed on solitude and calm repose.
I am charmed with the History of nous chirvan the Great, King of Persia. The infoription he caused to be put on his diadem shows a great fortitude of soul -- -- -- -- It
runs thus:
‘ What is long life, or what a glorious reign,
‘‘ Since our fucceflbrs quick upon us tread!
My fathers left this crown J that royal train “Myself inuft close, and mingle with the dead.”
I
I was obliged to lay aside my pen, as the Marquis came to remind me it was time to attend Madame d’oran’s private concert. My father, tho’ not able to go himfesh insisted upon my going; and the Marquis conducted me. His kind attention excited the whispers of the company, who imagine me still Miss Belmont. Some t^entured to compliment me on the conquest I had made, which I only answered by a Sinile. mademoiselle Albe added, I,
D 2 was
; : 2
was very fortunate, for she thought him the handlbmest creature existing. She spoke itwith such earnestness, that I have since beheld him with more attention, to find it out. If manly beauty alone could captivate, he certainly claims the prize of all hearts. When publicly acknowledged as his wife, I undoubtedly shall be much envied, which I am not ambitious of: but that is more easily born than a pitiable condition, as it argues that the object must be happy. Adieu! my Harriot.
Prom the Same to the Same.
Montpelier:
I Begin to esteem the Marquis, and with
less reluctance admit his endeavours to please me. he abferves it, and is more assiduous than ever. But, alas! pleasure is never unalloyed by pain. — My father is relapsed, and I fear for him beyond expression. .Ditetally Speaking, I fear for myself. He is advancing to happiness, and, as he Says, to meet his beloved Almeria, never more to be Separated. I am going to ex ‘ perience the most inexpressibly cutting Sorrow by the loss of him. He is constantly returning me thanks for my dutiful behaviour,

 . 53
haviour, as he terms it, in receiving the Marquis for my husband, as it makes him meet his end with composure and content, perfectly Satisfied with leaving me under the protection of So .tender and affectionate a husband.
Alas! my dear Harriot, my father draws very near his end. The physicians. Say he cannot live above two days longer. My dear Melville is continually consoling me, and endeavouring to alleviate my affliction. I begin to love him. My father seems quite pleased, tho’ in pain, by observing his kindness to me. Gratitude awakens love in my heart; for my father’s skke I repeat I love him.
The dreadful moment is passed. I have lost the best, the tenderest of fathers. Grief is best indicated by silence. — Adieu 1 — I cannot hold my pen. Pity your distressed
s
Adelaide.
§
A
Fronfr
y
4
From the Same to the Same.
Montpelier.
A S Soon as I regained Sufficient Spirits
to write, I acquainted my friends in England of the loss I had fustainbd. Lady N -- -- -- was so kind as immediately to answer
my letter, and affure me of a welcome reception at her house, withal advising me to Stay as short a time as possible in a place where I must remain my own mistress, for that a young woman without a protector was in a dangerous and improper situation.
How affectionate, how kind, how thoughful, is her Ladyship for my welfare! Indeed, my dear .Darriot, her letter made me shed tears of thanks and gratitude. It was greatly beyond my expectation, or my poor departed father’s, that after his decease she would make such an offer; otherwise I believe he would not have desired me to marry the Marquis, or I have consented, as f did not then esteem him : but my regard for him now daily increases, he is So exceedingly tender and affectionate, dedicating to me all the time he can possibly Spare without creating suspicion.
I showed him Lady N -- -- -- -- ~’s letter. —
He caugsht me in his arms, and earnestly
entreated
 . 55
entreated me not to leave him, but to make some excuse to her Ladyship, Such as an indifferent state of health, which would render it necessary for me to stay telling me, at the same time, he was sure his uncle (not that he wished his death) could not survive many weeks longer, and then he should have the happiness of publicly acknowledging me for his wife; which would thoroughly remove all Lady
N -- -- -- ’s Suspicions to my prejudice, should
she harbour any before that period : he added, that it would be running too great hazard to acquaint her with the secret before his uncle’s death, as our letters might miscarry, or fall into strange hands, as well as for various other obvious reasons and he was certain, he said, ^py father, if living, would be of his opishon.;
I readily aquiesced, and wrote to Lady
N -- -- --, informing her that my health was
sh indisterent, I could not quit Montpelier till it was in Ibme degree reestablished, and I shad got the better of the shock occasioned by the loss of my tender father; but that I should then with the greatest pleasure throw myself at her feet, and return her thanks personally for her very kind and affectionate attention to me.
I hope soon to hear, my dear Harriot, that, among the train of lovers you meet
vf^ith
6
with at Lady lorton’s, you have fixed on and made yourself happy with one. Wait not for what rommantic youth calls
love, ' my Harriot. -- -- it is mere folly. I
now love the Marquis as much as it is possible 1 believe for a woman to love her husband. That fear of him with which I was once possessed is almost conquered. Parents and friends are, doubtless, the best judges of what will conduce to our felicity. those violent passions we So frequently read of are very seldom, if ev’^er, found in real life. Girls, by reading such romances, imbibe notions which they never eradicate. — Love at first sight, as it is called by some giddy females, is more frequently attracted by the deaths than the man; and the generality of the Sex are So blinded, that they do not till it is too late (I mean after marriage) perceive their error. But that will never be the cafe of my Harriot. When she does six her affection, I am certain it will be on an object for whom she will never have cause to blush. avith this civil conclusion I remain, my ever loved friend,
N
Yours most faithfully,
'Adelaide.'
i
Prop
\
 . 57
y
From the Same to the Same.
Montpelier]
• %
ademoiselle Albe is become my tormentor. Notwithstanding my frequent denials and excuses of ill health, she is perpetually haunting, me, and launching out into almost indecent encomiums on the Marquis. When he is present, she ogles, flirts, and practises all her arts, to gain his attention. He despifes her grimace, and urges me to behave rudely to her, in order to free myself from her folly. The only excuse I can form for her is, she knows not that we are united beyond a power of Separation; but under this Supposition her conduct is highly Genfurable. Is not the woman chargeable with gross treachery who exerts all her charms and art to Seduce the affection of an amiable lover from the persbn for. whom she pretends to have a friendship f But she is a coquette unworthy my attention. Yet I am sometimes tempted to pity her, and almost imagine she has a sincere ungovernable passion for' the Marquis,, which urges her, though in So imprudent a manner, to discover it to him,
D 5 in
8
in hopes of moving his compassion, and, by ripening that Sentiment into love, of bringing about a marriage between them. Poor mademoiselle Albe, if Such really be the case, pity is indeed thy due!
Mr. Ancram, melville’s uncle, is now much better, and Sometimes ventures out. I have Seen him at Madame d’o ran’s, and endeavoured to make myself jpleasing to him hitherto to no purpose. He has an aversion to women in general, but Madame D’oran is rather a favourite, therefore I hope through her means to become one too,
Madame Hermond is the most agreeable lady, to my taste, that I have met with here. She is perfectly amiable, having a fine person and address, accompanied with a brilliant wit and a pleasing modesty. It is a Sort of wit, which, when displayed, hurts not thole with whom she converses; not that bon-ton or pert vivacity which shocks a feeling mind by its rudeness, Madame Her mond’s witticisms are refined, being the result of a clear head and an honest and liberal heart. But, alas! engaging as she is beyond description, she is a miserable victim to wealth. Her guardians compelled her to marry mons. Hermond, a
man
\
 . 59
man many years her Senior, a Sot, and a fool; a man who has Spent all his days, and still continues to Spend them, in dei bauchery; and who, by being accustomed to converse and cohabit with the vilest of wo nen. thinks there is no difference in the conduct of the sex. Hence he is continually fuspicious of his own and his wife’s honour; and when in company, if any gentlemen happen to be present, she must, not laugh, smile or converse but in a laconick way; thus concealing the fense Heaven has so bountifully bestowed upon her. In short, Harriot, to describe the. wretched life she leads is beyond the power of my pen. In order to have the pleasure of her company, before him I appear grave, reserved and prim, to a ridiculous degree, whence he concludes I am a tolerably decent young woman, and therefore gives her free leave to Spend .as much of her time as she pleases with me. Few men besides the Marquis visit me, and him mons. Hermond imagines to be my assured lover. Madame Hermond avails herself of her hushand’s permission, and we frequently read and work alternately together. How deserving is this lady of a better fate!
Your
\
o THE MUTABILITY'.DF
Your heart is still your own, you avow, and thank Heaven your aunt leaves you free, as you are in no hurry to become a wife; but that you Sincerely congratulate me on my happiness in having so amiable a husband, and that you long for a peep at us both. Curiosity excites you to wish to view Melville, and love, friendship, every tender sentiment, make you long to see his Adelaide again. Ah! my dear Harriot, when I return to England as melville’s wise, Lady Lorton must resign you to me, to complete my happiness. You must make my dv/elling yours till a Sovereign commander Snatches you from me; then indeed, I must yield, though reluctantly. Adieu! my dear, my amiable friend.
N
J
From the Same to the Same.
Montpelier.
E are frequently Surprised at the conduct of others, because we know not the motives of their acting in such a manner as to our apprehension appears ridiculous. I was led to this reflection
by a seen that oecurred yesterday at my
house
 . 6i
house. Madame Hermond came to tea. We had Scarce commenced the ceremony, when her husband was announced. I guessed he came as a Spy, tp be convinced all was Safe; and therefore was very glad we were alone, and that not even the Marquis was with us : but my joy was of short duration; for Melville Soon after entered with Mons. D’oran. D’oran is very gay and sprightly;; is husband to the lady I mentioned in a former letter. I made a stiff courtesy, and formally inquired after his lady. He burst out into an immoderate laughter. (Poor Madame Hermond coloured, sensible of the reason of my reserve, and dreading a storhn.) Mons. her raond stared at D’oran. Melville, who knew hermond’s jealous disposition, bid his friend sit down, and apologised for him to mons. Hermond by Saying he had just met with a droll adventure in the street, which he supposed still kept up his risibility.
Hermond Seemed dissatisfied with that excuse, and suspicious of he knew not what; and his wife’s changing colour (thro’ fear) was another alarm to him.
D’oran looked exceedingly surprised at us all, never having found me in So reserved a humour before. At last, recovering his fpeechi he exclaimed, “Mais mon
Dieu!
2
Dieu! miss Belmont!” -- -- -- 1 found my
amiable friend was in great distress, lesl his vivacity should occasion a disagreeable return from her husband, and therefore I endeavoured to stop his proceeding by Saying, with a prudish air, “Let me beg, Sir, you will not Speak So loud, for my head aches exceedingly — I believe you sat too long after dinner today, for you are in prodigious spirits.” He was, notwithstanding, going to exclaim again, when I gave Melville a nod, who under pretence of business took him away. Before he departed, however, he insisted upon my waiting on Madame D’oran as today;; “my dear Madame Hermond you must come too, ” added he in his thoughtless way. Melville then forced him from us at a fortunate moment, for he was on the point of seconding his request by kissing the lady’s hand, which would have driven Mons Hermond almost beside himself'; as it was, he was very much displeased, and swore by his good faith that D’oran was a very impertinent fellow to dare to take Such liberties with his wife as to call her his dear, that it was with difficulty he had restrained himself from kicking the puppy out of the room, chut on my account he would not cause a disturbance. As for Melville, he appeared to be a worthy young
gentleman,
 . 62
gentleman, but wondered he would countenance such a fellow, who knew not how to behave in modest women’s company, or my decent behaviour would have kept him in awe.
I alleged, in d’oran’s defence, that he was in liquor, and laid the blame on the Marquis for introducing him in that condition : but the conversation was not to drop so. mons. Hermond began to wrangle with his unhappy wife; he swore she should never more visit Madame D’oran, for he did not doubt that she would be very ready to engage in an intrigue with that fellow, if it had not commenced before. -- -- She must have given him encouragement, or he would never have dared to address her in that free manner; with a great deal more provoking nonfense much to the same purpose;; his poor wife answered only by tears. I took the liberty, notwithstanding his fury, to harangue in her favour. By degrees his rage fub sided, and I brought him to own, with reluctance, that if D’oran was intoxicated, it rendered his behaviour less culpable; but he insisted, nevertheless, his wife Should desist from visiting Madame D’oran. As for me, 1 was a decent, prudent young woman, and, provided I would promise not to admit that impudent fellow
into
#
k
into company when his wife was present, she might continue my acquaintance. So saying, he repaired to his iisual companions. Poor Madame hermond’s Spirits were exceedingly depressed, and I could not persuade her to stay supper
The Marquis and Mons. D’oran returnr ed when they found the oddity was gone. The latter entered with an obsequious bow, and “I hope I have the honour to See Miss belmont well, ” was uttered with an air, of gravity at which it was my turn to laugh.
“I am practising propriety of behaviour, said he, in cafe I should fall into company with mons Hermond again. My God! I could not conceive what you would be at with your precisenefs and formality Indeed, I had heard the wretch was jealous of his wife to desperation, and that his Sentiments were particular on every point, but I had no idea of his being here, as he never attends Such good company, neither had I any conception mirth was a crime. You cannot form in your imagination, my dear miss Belmont, hov; Surprised I was at your behaviour and melville’s. Bon Dieu! O the wretch! he deserves the most Severe punishment for thus torturing So amiable a woman!’’
Certainly
/
/
 I F E.. 65
Certainly my poor friend’s fate is to be lamented; but our most unbounded pity cannot redress her misfortune. To be continually Suffering the suspicioh of her husband for the worst of crimes, which she is innocent of, requires fortitude, patience, and a confidence in God, who is the observer of her hard endurance. She is possessed of these virtues, but at the same time her sensibility of his ill treatment causes her infinite pain.
I
I have received another kind letter
from Lady N -- -- -- --, who urges me to come
to her as soon as my health will permit. I must continue to deceive her, as it as impossible for me to quit the Marquis,
\
I am extremely shocked, my dear Harriot, at the dreadful news which has just arrived; a certain account that the ship which the worthy Mr. Blake Sailed in for Leghorn was wrecked very near the des tined port. One man only escaped, who Saw all the rest perish. We have now no witness lest of our marriage, only a certificate remains which that unfortunate man left with me. Yet it is not from felfishnefs that I bemoan his loss.' I have no reason to distrust my dear melville’s
56
ville’s honour. Mr. blake’s loss will be Severely felt by many. He was a father to, the friendless— — cherished the distressed
— He was -- -- -- but, alas I he is now
no more. Tears succeed each other so fast I cannot write. — Adieu!
From the Same to the Same.
Montpelier.
Mr. Ancram, disgusted with Mademoiselle
Albe for behaving with her accustomed ridiculous fondness to the Marquis, has forbidden his nephew to speak to her, and Seems disposed to be rather favourable to me. Melville is highly delighted at it, and conceives hopes beyond my expectation. That they may be happily fulfilled is my constant and ardent wish, for I fear Slander with her envenomed tongue will aid fus picion, and openly calumniate my intimacy with the Marquis, and his attentions to me.
I can’t help complaining to you, my amiable Harriot, of this private marriage — it wounds my delicacy. Though I love Melville, and he is the tenderest of
husbands,
 . 67
husbands, I am distressed. To be obliged to see him privately — to give the world an opportunity of misjudging my conduct — to conceal my situation from my
affectionate aunt -- -- these circumstances,
I Say, distress me much. I comfort myself, however, with melville’s hope that the necessary period of these sufferings will be but short.
That wretch Hermond will not let me See his amiable wife so often as usual, I miss her agreeable company exceedingly, and am obliged to Supply her place with Madame D’oran. She is an agreeable woman, but she has not the Sprightly wit of Madame Hermond; — the difference between them is great indeed, ~ Adieu! my dearest friend.
from the Same to the Same.
Montpelier.
Our hopes are blasted, my dear Harriot. I shall not now have an opportunity of ingratiating myself into Mr. fvncram’s favour. His health amends so Slowly, that the physicians have ad vised him to go to Nice, thinking that
air
68
air will be more beneficial to him. as the Marquis must attend him, he is extremely grieved at the thoughts of parting with me. Indeed, he would fain persuade me to follow him to that place, and live incog at some house under a feigned name. I have argued on the impropriety of Such a conduct; and he at last, unwillingly, has consented to leave me behind. He will not permit me by any means to go to England, as I shall be nearer him here. lam very low Spirited at the thoughts of his departure, but must submit, as it is unavoidable.
Mademoiielle Albe has been dangerously ill,, and. was So imprudent as to entreat an interview with the Marquis, who returned a polite refusal. She then sent for me. Upon being informed of her Situation, I immediately complied with: her request. She complained much of melville’s treatment; and declaring, with a vehemence that indicated distraction, how much she adored him, notwithstanding his cruelty to her; begged me to intercede with him in her behalf, So far as at least to treat her with common humanity — to visit her once — to Say he wished her health — to -- -- --
I prevented her proceeding by asking if the Marquis had ever given her reason to imagine he loved her.
H U M A N L I F E. 69
She started. No, returned she, I can’t Say he ever did; but perhaps he might
if you had never come to this place. -- -- -- -- --
Destruction to my peace of mind! he loves only you, and I adore him in vain. Ah! happy woman, you will sometime hence become his vise; while I — racks and tortures! — while I must end my days in misery.
A delirikm Succeeded, she talked wildly, and in rage. I, was affrighted, but ■ unwilling to leave her in that state. In half an hour’s time she became more calm. I then reasoned with her on the folly and indiscretion of giving way to her passions, which she ought to endeavour to Subdue; and, being obliged to dissemble, told her she was mistaken in thinking the Marquis had fixed his affection on me; but that I believed he was engaged to a young lady in England "who bore Some resemblance to my person, which made him covet my company. I hoped she would reflect upon the impropriety of her conduct, and, since it was impossible to force the regard of Melville, endeavour to forget him by avoiding his presence, as absence was generally found the best means of relief by those unfortunate pershns who entertained a hopeless passion.
‘‘ A hope.
.)
THF MUTABILITY OF
A hopeless passion! Madam, returned she with a countenance full of agony. — “A hopeless passion! Do you Speak of me with such contempt? Her delirium returned, and I was forced to quit, the room, extremely shocked at her condition.
In a few days after, the fever having left her, and her health amending, she sent for me again : the result of which was, her Submissively begging my pardon, and blaming herself highly for her want of temiper to so kind a friend. She owned, that on reflection she was Sensible that I had given her Salutary advice; and, being convinced of her past misconduct, she hoped for the future not to act in so reprehensible a manner; and, to prevent her relapsing, she added, she was going to bid adieu to Montpelier, and the too dear object of her affection, as soon as her health would permit; for an aunt of hers, who resided at Paris, having long wished to see her, she should on the present occasion fulfil her desires by going to that gay city; and, concluded she, with a smile, perhaps I may find a new lover there who may make me amends for all I have suffered on account of the Marquis.
I sin
 . 71
I sincerely wish you may, returned I; nothing is more probable. Nature has been bountiful to your person, and where the heart is not pre engaged you must conquer.
Ah! miss Belmont, you flatter- -- -- -- --
! there are few men to be met with comparable to the Marquis. — I shall never love any other, said she, sighing, how
then can lever be happy f -- -- -- But, added
she, starting from her seat in a fprigbtly manner, I will revenge myself on the perfidious Sex, at least those 1 can enthral: — To use them with cruelty, and exert my power, shall be my diversion.
I could not refrain from laughing, my dear Harriot, at the drollery with which she recited her intention; but I returned her no answer, and Soon after took my leave.
This unhappy woman’s situation would affect me more, did I not imagine that the amusements of Paris, and the gallantry always in vogue there, will soon Set her heart at ease. She is a perfect coquette. The marquis’s inattention piqued her ambition, vanity, and self-love. There are few beaus here, therefore he is the more conspicuous. I don’t doubt but she will soon forget him. But I must lose him, Harriot — He will be compelled to leave
me
i.

me soon. If it could be done without an ' apparent breach of decorum, with what pleasure should I attend him! How great will be my anxiety and regret at parting with him! Ah! Harriot, perhaps we may
never meet again. -- -- -- Who can tell what
will happen? Adieu! During my existence I shall ever remain
i
Your truly affectionate
Adelaide.
r
from the Same to the Same.
9
Montpelier.
X HE Marquis was iil such excess of grief at leaving me, that it almost overpowered my fenses to see him in So melancholy a condition. It was past description. My resolution drooped, and had he pres sed me then to follow him I should have consented. His tenderness excites my warmest gratitude. It is Scarcely conceivable in real lise. < He expresses, and indeed Seems to feel, all the warmth of a lover in romance. — I pity him, as I think
it
H U M A N L I F E. 73
It must render him unhappy to be 10 lul ceptible. He has my esteem, and all the love I am capable of feeling. Dear Melville! how wilt thou support this separation?? am very unhappy on thy account.
Mons. and Madame D’oran will not Suffer me to be alone, tho’ they know not of our union. They imagine the Marquis my lover, and kindly endeavour all in their power to divert me in his absence.
My aunt will think strangely of my long stay here, and disobedience. She writes me word all my friends are Surprised at my remaining here, But it must, be so. The marquis’s uncertain stay at Nice disturbs me; many disagreeable events may result from it. I am low fpirited, my dear friend, and must lay aside my pen. Adieu!
- / i
Marquis of Melville to Miss Bblmont.
4
Nice
Istraction rends my brain, adorable Adelaide! I cannot live— — cannot breathe — without you. Cruel woman! you vol. I. E know
V —
74
Rnow not wnat love is, or you could neve exist without your faithful Melville. I traverse my chamber with hasty steps, and wring my hands in agony of grief; nay, even the presence of my uncle cannot command tranquillity. He asks the reason of my perturbation. lam ready to forego all his wealth and affection, and exclaim ’tis the absence of my angelic wife, mis tress, friend, every name that is dear and valuable. When you read of my misery
-- -- my distress — can you be calm I Will
you not fly to me, my darling Adelaide.? Oh! haste hither; let us run the hazard of Mr. ancram’s anger and delertion — ■ be satisfied with a moderate fortune — rather than be thus miserable. Write to me immediately, let me know my doom, whether it is to be life or death: I have told you I can’t live without you. Do you hate your Melville, who adores you? Observe, I entreat as a lover, and use no authority as a husband; for ’tis to love alone
1 would owe your obedience. -- -- -- -- Thou
all enchanting Adelaide, adieu!
ms
>
LIFE. 75
Miss Bslmont to Marquis of Melville.'
Montpelier.
I Must: Indeed, my dear Melville, be dead to all sensibility, and a proper inhabitant for the frigid zone, did I not return you gratitude and love for those Sensations you So feelingly describe, If wiishe.s could transport me to Nice, I would this moment put a period to your anxiety, and, like Pyfche, Surrender myself to Zephyr to be conveyed to my hushand’s presence. But, alas 1 I am no Pagan, and the whole machinery of homer’s gods and goddesses cannot assist me. Yet the idea of my beloved Melville is ever with me. A regard for your interest prevented my accompa nying you at first; but since it is your ardent desire -- -- -- since you will hazard the
displeafure of the sickle goddess Fortune
for my Sake -- -- -- be assured I will as soon as
possible comply with your request. A few days I intend to wait in hopes of meeting company, of which should I be disappointed, not to render you further unhappy, I will fet out with only Annette and Jaques to attend me. In the mean time, my dear
. E 2 Melville,
• ^
76
Melville, let me conjure you to be more composed, to be convinced by this letter of my unalterable eftccm and love, and to wait for my arrival (which shall be as
Toon as possible) with^patience. Adieu!
t
Miss Belmont to Mss Meynel.
(With the t‘wo foregoing Letters inclofedi)
/
Nice.
i J O E S not the place of date surprise you, my dear Harriot? It was for that purpose I postponed writing till I arrived here. The marquis’s letter (which I send you, with my answer) precluded all other fears but that of rendering him more un happy, and, perhaps, plunging him from his great anxiety of mind into a fit of illness, Mons. D’oran, who is indefatigable in the service of his friends, ran about three days to find out company for me to travel with; for I informed him and his lady with the secret whither 1 was going. They suspect, I believe, how the Marquis and myself are situated. Mons. D’oran was successful in his researches, and found
an
 . 77
an old man and woman, of limited circumstances, whose residence is at this place, returning hither. They were happy in having company as well as myself, and promised to accommodate me and my servants at their house; of which I apprized my dear Melville by another letter, that he might not engage any other residence for me. We had a tolerable journey hither. You may guess with what joy the Marquis received me. Mr. An 1 cram is still in a declining state. Though I shut myself up as close as I can, people know a stranger lives at Mons. bemont’s; and call me “the English Recluse.” Thus am I situated at present. Write me soon, my dear Harriot. Adieu! '
From the Same to the Same.
t
Nice:..
HAT danger would await the man whose real Situation should be that wherein 1 at present appear to be! Hovr earnestly do men endeavour still further to betraiy into deeper ruin those of our unfortunate
/
78
tunate lex whom tney luipect to nave already swerved from the path of virtue; It is an adopted maxim with them
N
** That those who once have milted the right way The further they do go the further they do (tray f As those who having palted dread pluto’s shore,
To life, to friends, to earth, return no more.
Too generally, I fear, my dear Harriot, a perseverance in vice is the consequence of a desertion of virtue; but there is no rule without exception, We have heard of many who by different modes have been seduced, and for a time lost to virtue, but in whom its ray being rekindled, a future uniform conduct has crazed the remembrance of their crime from the memory of persons poffessing the Sentiments of candour, generosity, and charity. But sorry am I to say, 1 fear few are blessed with those laudable sentiments; for it is remarkable that our fellow-creatures failings and misfortunes live longer in remembrance than their good qualities; and this is likely to be the cafe till the dissolution of this globe, because, self-love being too generally our predominant paf sion, we imagine foolishly, that in proportion as other peoples characters are blackened, pur own is made to fiiine with the greater lustre.
The
«
J
 , 79
1 he Hon. Mr, Nugent is tne cause or my reflection in the beginning of this letter, my dear Harriot. Having casually drank tea two or three times in my company at Mons. bemont’s, it seems he fancied there was something desirable in my person. This led him to observation. He found I lived in a private manner, and that the marquis’s visits were very frequent; from whence he concluded that I must be melville’s mistress. Full of this idea, he made it his business to find me alone, when with much explicitnefs and freedom he declared his passion, hinting that if I would desert the Marquis, and attach myself to him, I should find my account in it. Ah 1 my Harriot, to describe the disterent emotions which Seized me is impossible; but resentment was so predominant over all, as scarcely to leave me the power of utterance, With the steadiest tone I could command I expressed myself thus in return “You are unworthy any answer Sir, yet I cannot help telling you that I am an Englishwoman of family, and have friends who may perhaps call you to account for this insult. -- Particular reasons
oblige me to remain here in private sometime.
-- -- -- The Marquis is connected with
my friends. — — But why should 1 account
b
k
9
So
to you for my Situation r -- -- Was I p®or
and fricndless, might I not be possessed of
innocence and virtue? -- -- Might 1 not be
visited by the Marquis without any improper connexion subsisting between us? --
I insist. Sir, not only that you offend me no more by language of this Sort, but that you avoid my presence for the future.”
“Well, Madam, Said he, bowing, I will leave you to consider of it: but I hope my charmer will be less cruel when next we meet. Reflection, perhaps, may interest you in my favour.” — So Saying, he departed, and left me filled with cruel Sensations. Such are the consequences of private marriages. But I was not long left to my disagreeable reverie. Melville came, who by his kindness and affection allayed the storm in my breast which the infamous Nugent had raised. I dared not inform him of what had passed, lest he Should be excited by his natural warmth of temper to call him to an account for it, the event of which might have been fatal.
A few days after I received a letter from my honourable lover, which I returned unopened. Thus the matter remains at present.
Ah!
 . St
Ah! my friend, when shall I See thee when shall I return to England? — when shall I be proclaimed a wife to the world, and be rendered less liable to future insult?? — these things are fulfilled, •nd not before, shall I be
Your truly happy
Adelaide^’,
t
i
s
From the Same to the Samer
9
Nice.
^^/tr; Ancram has kept his chamber; ever since he. has been here, and is now extremely ill. Nothing but his close confinement could have prevented his hearing of my being at this place; where my name is well known. Annette tells. me people arc very inquisitive, questioning her and Jaques much about me, but they do not satisfy their curiosity. I much doubt whether they say the truth. I fancy they gratify the enquirers as far as they are able. Servants, and common people in general, love to make themselves of
consequence which they think they do
E 5 when
la
when they have it in their power to answer Such Sort of questions. The Marquis has cautioned all his servants not to in form Mr. Ancram of my being here, and the physicians likewise, who pronounce that all their art cannot save their patient from death one week longer. Poor man! if his appointed period is arrived, may the Almighty grant him support in his last agonies, and his Soul find an easy Separation from the mass of clay which now encumbers it! How awful is death, even to those who have passed their days in virtue; but how dreadful, how insup portably dreadful, must it be to the wicked!
I have received a letter from Madame D’oran, who informs me, that just before she Sat down to write, she was Surprised with a visit from Mademoiselle i\.lbe, whom we all imagined to be at Paris, The young lady, she says, still talks of going thither, but business has hitherto wutheld her. She inquired much after me, it seems, and was very anxious to know V here I was gone; but Madame D’oran did not Satisfy her curiosity,
The
V
 ., 83
1 he amiable iviaciame riermond is gone with her husband to Amiens. Some of his relations reside there. They intend to remain there some months.
Enclosed in my friend’s letter was one from my aunt, which arrived at Montpelier since my departure. She upbraids, me much with my long silence, and absence from her — wonders how I can like to live in a strange country, sofar distant from my relations, running the hazard of losing my reputation for want of a protector — says that I shall find a very affectionate friend in her, for her departed sister’s sake — and asses,, since I have received no supply from my uncle, how I can therefore lubsist? She concludes her very kind epistle with entreating an immediate answer.
Her concern for me; indeed, deserves one; but I must wait a few days to see the event of Dr. ■ — — ’s prognostication; Should it prove true, I shall have it in my power to remove all her fears, and gladden her heart, by a communication of my marriage to her, for she dotes on grandeur, and will be proud to hear her niece is a Marchioness - what folly! grandeur and riches are far from constituting happiness. But I must think of concluding — yet cannot without first informing
A
forming you that Nugent is become exceedingly troublesome and importunate; he pesters me with letters innumerable, which I order the servants not to receive, but he contrives to send them by different people, and gets them directed by various hands, so that I am often deceived and open them. They contain proposals which I should shudder to listen to. — All the contempt or revenge I can show him is to return them in a blank cover.
"— I hope soon he will know me in my proper character, which surely will cause him to discontinue his impertinences. I am Sometimes, my dear Harriot, much alarmed at his persisting in his insolence, fearing dreadful consequences, should it come to the knowledge of Melville, whose impetuous temper would not brook the least insult to his wife. You may guess how miserable I am when this Suggestion arises; but the flatterer, Hope, steps in to my aid and I am calm again. Adieu! my beloved friend.
From
4
 .
From the Same to the Same.
Nice.
It is better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of feasting, for the living will take it to his heart.’*
np
X HE text prepares you for the event, my dear Harriot. Mr. Ancram is no more. Notwithstanding I reap great advantage from his death, and he was So little known to me, I cannot help being much affected. Perhaps it proceeds from viewing his dead remains. There is Something past description Solemn in the chamber of death : the Preacher wisely remarks, “the living will take it to his heart.” We cannot well behold a mask of clay, once in a state of animation like ourselves, without being struck with the reflection, that it is a change we ourselves must undergo, and we know not how soon: : perhaps in the midst of all our errors and imperfections. How incumbent a duty is it, therefore, my dear friend, for us frequently to contemplate and prepare for this dissolution! When the Spiritual essence quits its earthly
56
ly tabernacle, how ghastly the corse that
is left behind! What a fit subject of contemplation it is to curb the vanity, pride, and variety of passions, to which by nature we are subject, and which too frequently triumph over the best of us. The most innocent is not ' free from guilt -- -- -
*3 * ^
I was interrupted by the Marquis, who; having overlooked what I had written, laughed at my sermon, as he was pleased to term it. Alas! my dear Harriot, he is, what is too common in these days, a free thinker. It would be in vain for me to endeavour to change his principles. I have for sometime lamented his infidelity. Had my dear father lived perhaps his powerful arguments might have had Ibme influence over him, but I have no hope of fuccceding. The punishment of evil is an article which Melville admits not into his creed. He told me, on this occasion, that it is inconsistent with the goodness and justice of the God who formed us.
“Why should it be inconsistent, returned I; has he not pointed out to us the road to happinest; and implanted in
our
 , gy
our breasts a monitor, which we call conscience, to denote to us our deviation from right, and distinguish.as clearly between, virtue and vice, as fense does between pleasure and pain? and if to this we add the unequal distribution of good and evil in this life” — - —
‘‘ Stop, my dearest Adelaide, interrupted he; my principles arc too firmly rooted ever to be shaken; yours, undoubtedly, are the same. — It is the only Subject upon which we can disagree; let us, therefore, never, resume it.” ^
He spoke hastily, and rather in displeasure. — It affected me, and Some involuiii tary tears escaped.
“My angelic creature. Said he, catching me in his arms, forgive me. — I love
you, I adore you. -- -- -- What more can
you desire?”
It wase necessary to Submit, my dear Harriot. I returned him thanks for bis kind and tender affection, and have never Since dared to speak on the subject.
Immediately on Mr. ancram’s death
I wrote to Lady N -- -- -- -- -, informing her
of every particular concerning my marriage, and apologising for having concealed it, by assuring her it was by the marquis’s desire. He also wrote in confirmation of what I had Said. We both
likev/ise
8
likewise wrote to my uncle Walters, desiring the answers might be directed to Montpelier, whither we are going as soon as possible.
Mons. Bemont informs me, that Nugent, now convinced of my quality and virtue, is so heartily ashamed of his past conduct, that he dares not appear abroad, lest he should see me,, and declares he could not een summon resolution to ask my pardon. Poor wretch! I wish it may deter him from Similar attempts, especially if he should meet with any young creature in reality so circumstanced as he imagined me to be.
I have now a number of attendants; and have removed my lodgings, that I may appear in character. What folly is there in parade? Happiness does not consist in riches; they, indeed, certainly create respect;; the respect that awaits virtuous actions, independent of pomp or title, is most pleasing to an ingenuous minsh I wish to return to England, that you, my amiable friend, may complete my felicity by your dear company; for, till you become a wife, you must constantly reside with
Your truly affectionate
Adelaide Melville.
Marchioness
 . 89
Marchioness of Melville to Miss
Meynel.
Montpelier.
T
X HE news of our marriage arrived here long before us. mons. D.dran, (to whom the Marquis had written) took care to circulate it; therefere we had a number of congratulations upon our arrival. mademoiselle Albe, it Seems, was just Setting off for Paris when the news arrived, and, willing to be satisfied of the truth before she departed, ran to Madame D’oran, who assured her of it; whereupon she flew into a great rage, abused the Marquis and me, threatened revenge sooner or later, and vented the bitterest curses against us.
I forget to inform you that an anonymous letter, directed to Mr. Ancram, arrived the day after his death, which Melville opened. It was full of severe reflections, and advised Mr. Ancram to beware that his nephew was not ensnared into a marriage with miss Belmont, who had followed him to Nice, cc.
As It fortunately came too late to have, its intended effect, we threw it into the
fire
e
)0
fire without taking very particular notice of it, but now imagine it must have been Sent by the malicious mademoiselle Albe.
Of what avail are her furious imprecations.? She cannot gain the marquis’s affection, or disunite us. Poor unhappy woman, her anger recoils upon and punishes herself.
I have heard from Lady N -- -- -- -- -- my
dear friend. According to my expectation she is rejoiced beyond expression at the news of my marriage, and informs
me she has advised the Duke of -- -- -- -- -- -- -
and all ostr relations of it. The Earl of Walters is at Paris, but she has furthered our letters to him,
Melville is determined to stay here a fortnight .longer, that we may enjoy more of mons. and Madame d’oran’s company, who have been our very kind friends; after which we are to go to Paris, to view that celebrated city, before we return to England. The Marquis obligingly does it to gratify my curiosity, as he heard me express a desire of Seeing it. I daily find myself, my dear Harriot, under more obligation to this affectionate husband. How frequently do I wissi my dear father was but alive to behold the happiness he compelled me to accept, for you know the Marquis was not my own choice. Yet I
sometimes
 . 91
sometimes lament his natural warmth or temper, which often causes unhappiness to' himself, and terrifies me; but there is no pleasure in this world without some alloy; therefore I ought to be, nay, am, satisfied with the state in which Providence has placed me, and the blessings bountifully bestowed upon me. Indeed, I indulge the hope, that, as Melville is endowed with a great share of sense, he wdll make use of it to get the better of his hasty disposition, which (as I Said besore) frequently occasions an interruption to his own, and, consequently, my Selicity. Adieu! You shall hear from me again as soon as I arrive at Paris; till when, and always, I shall be
Your assured friend, Adelaide Melville.
t
\
from the Same to the Same,
from London, this great city appears a
new world to me j but I prefer the former
><
in
2
in a high degree. This partiality, perhaps, arises from its being the place of my nativity; a circumstance which generally attracts one to a particular spot: nevertheless, to speak with all candour, London, in my opinion, has many advam tages over this dirty metropolis.
From the Earl of walter’s banker, we gained intelligence where he resided, and sent to inform him of our arrival. He was so very kind as to wait on us immediately, and is so much pleased with the Marquis, that he is Seldom from our cornpany. He has introduced us to his friends, so that I have Icarce a moment I can call my own but that I take repose in. Lady Walters is likewise very obliging. They are desirous,, moreover, of introducing ms at Court; but, as Mr. ancram’s death is so recent, the Marquis declines that honour, especially as he thinks it will be more proper for us first to attend the Court of our own Monarch.
The Marquis intends our present stay shall be short; but next year we propose to make Some months abode at this city. You will not be Surprised to hear I admire their operas here, as you know I am so doatingly fond of music. But I am greatly displeased with the French gallantry to married women. I have disputed on the
subject
 . 93
siibject with several ladies, natives of this place. They shrug up their shoulders, and e^tclaim, “Ah! charmante Madame Melville, was you but to reside here one year, we are sure you would acquire so ^ much esprit as to be convinced of the propriety of our manners. Are we not formed for adoration? Is not the love of admiration innate? Because we are told we are lovely, must v/e necessarily part with our virtue.? No, no, Madame; ’tis nothing but pastime. We listen with pleasure to
find ourselves worthy notice -- -- Our husbands
approve it, shecause it applauds their choice and taste. We have few real
lovers, but numberless pretenders -- -- -- -- --
Mere bagatelle!.. — Ah! Madame, we have in reality as many virtuous women here ’as you shave in England, but from mtgaiev de cmr many are thought to be engaged in une petite affair, who are as ' free from crim. con, as an infant; and, in veritef Madame, cela ejl tout. You English ladies are for the most part prudes; shut, pardon our observation, prudes are not always virtuous.”
These, my dear Harriot, were the general answers I always received : to which I returned,, that I could never be persuad cd there was not a very great indelicacy in the conduct of the French ladies, let
them
H THF MUTABILITY OF
them be ever so virtuous; but further arguments on both sides were to no purpose, each party being very tenacious of opinion.
The Marquis is going to the opera tonight without me, as. Lady Walters being indisposed I have promised to sit with
her. It is high time for me to attend; so, my Harriot, I must bid you adieu for the present.
Adelaide Melville, From the Same to the Same,
V
Pans.
J[ FI A V E been for Some time Silent,
my dear Harriot, in hopes that a cloud of uneasiness, which has since my last arisen, would dissipate; but I can no longer forbear un burden ing myself to you by disclosing the Subject of my trouble, which (unexpected as it may be) is no other than the marquis’s loss of asssection for me: Ah!, my Harriot, he is strangely altered within this month. His tenderness is all fled. He avoids my presence, and also shat of Lord and Lady Walters, who gently reproach
9
 . 95
proach him for this conduct. The first two or three evenings of his deferring our company, I very innocently, and without meaning to offend, assced what had occasioned his absence. He flew into a violent rage directly, telling me I was become a vtife indeed, but he would show himself a hujband too, and threatened me at the peril of his everlasting displeafure ever to question him again. You may be certain I have submitted.
Ah! Harriot, when a husband or wife has reserves, adieu to all happiness. When at home, Melville scarce Speaks to me; nay, within these three days, he seems to behold me with disgust. Some Frenchwoman, I fear, has captivated him, and I am doomed to experience a too common fate, that of a deserted wife. What is to be done? Nothing. There is nothing I can have recourse to but patience and hope, those balms and comforts of the distressed. Let me endeavour to console myself, with the latter, imagining, that time may restore to me the marquis’s affection. Expostulations or reproaches would only irritate, and drive him from me for ever. I must persevere in appearing blind to his change of behaviour; and if that conduct will not regain him, nothing will. A husband is a petty tyrant, and ill
brooks
«
§5
/
brooks to have his ways Scrutinised — A. wife must be (like an enssaved subject) Submissive and obedient; a dupe to his will, and blind to his infidelities.
What a gloomy picture have I drawn of matrimony, my dear friend. Alas! I fear ’tis too generally the cafe. Men are too much given to inconstancy. Nevertheless, it is not to be denied, nay, I will maintain, that when two rational people are united by love founded on esteem, and use reciprocal endeavours to please each other, it may be a state of the greatest felicity we can be blessed with in this world. That this may be your late, ray dear friend, is the very Sincere wish of your
Vw W
i
/
Adelaide Melville. From the Same to the Same.
Paris:
X HE Count de St. Lou is foremost amongst the herd of fops who would fain
entertain me with witticisms and commendation
 . 97
dations of accomplishments I am not pos fessed of. He is more importunate and troublesome than the rest, and unavoidably compels me to hear him. It is in vain I tell him that I am a gloomy Englishwoman, and, from a natural partiality to the manners of my country, cannot think of French gallantry but with horror, accounting it criminal beyond any plea of excu.sh in married persons. He still perseveres in it notwithstanding: and, to add to my uneasiness, the Marquis, I am sensible, perceives it, yet, instead of being displea fed, Seems to further St. lou’s opportunities by leaving us together, if the Count happens to come in when he is at home.
Oh! Melville, Melville, is it not
enough to deprive me of thy love! -- -- -- -
would’st thou have me disgrace both thee and myself by placing my affection on another? Perhaps thou thinkest it V old palliate thy unkindness. Cruel
man! thou knowest me not, — -- -- -- -- thou
woundest my heart more than thou dost imagine.
I have given strict orders that the Count should never be admitted when I am alone; but he frequently comes to breakfast with the Marquis, who soon after; like a French husband retires.
vol. 1. F It
✓
)$
It is to no purpose to complain to any One here. When I acquaint my uncle and aunt with my aversion to the Count St: lou’s behaviour, they Seem displeased, and call me prudish, for being offended •at his agreeable gallant manner, as they term it; adding, that it is proper to coincide a little with the manners of a country one happens to be in — — that the Count means no affront — nothing but pour pajjfer
h tefm.
Very fine, indeed! Little did I expect Such near relations to Spirit me up to intrigue. What a World do we live in, Harriot! I Sear it is too justa remark, that the frequent trips of our nobility to this gay city, where they imbibe a taste for French manners, prove the Source of the divorces now so common in England; for English husbands in general, not being naturally of so volatile a turn as the French, cannot, whatever gallantry they themselves engage in, be poltroons enough to connive at their wives intriguing, but she for a Separation as the best means of avenging their injured honour.
The Marquis Says nothing of going to London, and I dare not interrogate him concerning it; So God only knows when we shall leave this place. He frequently
comes
 , gg
comes in to dress just berore dinner -- -- -
Sighs bitterly -- throws himself down on
the couch — and in less than two minutes hastily jumps off it, and walks across the room as if insensible of what he did. He no longer has any confidence in me. We seem separate beings, indeed. I have the unhappiness to find that a violent passion cannot be durable. His was too raging to last. The present otyectof his attention will Soon, like me, become neglected. Melville, poor man! is his own tormentor. But reflections are vain. It is time to close my letter, adieu!
From the Same to the Same..
t
r
Paris.
_
np
X H E Count de St. Lou continuing to persecute me with his insolent passion, I forbade him my house. He behaves with such art and moderation before Lord and Lady Walters, that they blame me much for treatingshim so harshly, alleging that it is only accustomary civility he pays me,
F 2 and
\
too
and that, since my husband will not now attend me himself to public places, a gallant is very necessary, especially So respectable a one.
I would willingly excuse my noble relations. The Count most certainly does not express himsels with Such warmth in their presence; and, as they have Spent so much of their life in France, they are reconciled to the foibles of the country; but, in my own opinion, a married woman of the least delicacy must be shocked at a man’s continually repeating to her,
“that he lives but in her smiles- -- --
in her absence there Seems a void in ail
nature -- -- that he adores her, and hopes
her heart will beat in unison with his, and her husband be no longer the object of her fond passion, ” cc. A woman who can patiently listen to such flattery, forgetting all laws both human and divine, must have an unlimited share of vanity, which will in all probability render her an easy prey to her Seducer.
When I express myself to Lady Walters and others in this manner; they tell me I judge too rigidly, and have little idea of the force and power of love, which, while it stimulates its votaries to the eager pursuit of the object of their affection, blinds them as to the propriety of the
means
H U M A N L I F E. loi
means of attainment. — Then may I ever continue free from it, say I, if it so intoxicates the senses!
But why do I dwell so long on this fiib
ject? Let me Speak of my Melville -- -- -- -
Mine! — No, Harriot,. — he is lost to me, I fear, for ever.
Yesterday, as he was walking up and down the room with a wild step, I sat down on the window with a book in miy hand, seemingly intent on it. He with apparent distraction Sfruck his hand cross his forehead, and uttered to himself“ “
Violetta! -- -- - — Tortures to my bleeding
heart! -- -- 1 have undone myself— — am
married — Never can be thine.”
I was so overpowered with what I heard, the book fell out of my hand, my head reclined against the window, and tears began to stov/.
The noise of the book falling, and ray Sobs, roused the Marquis from his reverie. Not being quite lost to humanity, “Adelaide, said he, in a kinder tone than of late he has used to me, what is the matter with you i you look pale.”
Fearing his anger, I knew not what to
answer— — was necessary to speak- --
last, I said, the loss of your esteem, my Lord, is insupportable to me! -- -- Alas!!

02
you no longer love me, and I must be miserable.
“I will not dissemble, Adelaide; I
adore another. Perhaps -- -- -- but you are
too much affected at present, dry up your
tears -- -- there may be means of making
us both happy. — I will unfold my meaning another opportunity. Adieu! Lady Melville; compose yourself, and endeavour to hate me.”
“Endeavour to hate him !” Oh, Harriot, what strange advice from a husband! i made powerful endeavours to love him, having, as I acquainted you, married him even with reluctance, in obedience to my father’s command. His extreme tenderness made me strive to be grateful; duty urged me on to return his affection, which was then violent. After all the pains I have taken to esteem him, behold the reward! I must now, by his own desire, undo ail I have done, and return to the indifference with which I first received him. Cruel command! ungrateful me!ville! — To keep up appearances, I go into company as usual; but, to a heart Ib ill difpofed for the gaiety of this city as mine is at present, this task is very painful. Adieu! my Harriot.
From
r
 . 103
t
/
From the Same to the Same.
\
Parisi
\
rr
X HE Marquis has unfolded the proposal
he intimated. -- -- -- Shocking beyond
measure- -- -- -- let me, if possible communicate
it in his own words.
f
Two mornings ago he addressed me as fallows: “Adelaide, from the regard I find you have for me, and the nobleness of soul I have observed in you, I flatter myself you will pay attention^o my request,
and gratify it. -- -1 adore another; therefore
you and I can never again live together on tolerable terms. — I am miserable that I have it not in my power to offer my hand to. the charmer who now engrosses my attention, since her virtue will not admit of her gratifying my passion without the raatrimonal ceremony’s taking place; You have it in your power, Lady mei ville, to make me happy.”
“Impossible! my Lord. How can I further your happiness but by dishonourable means?
“Renounce:
9
04
“Renounce me, Adelaide; you knovr our marriage, being a private one, cannot
be proved. -- -- Acknowledge with me our
cohabitation was only an illicit amour, and I ^jll Settle on you whatever annual stipend you can demand within reason. The Count de St, Lou will reestablish your reputation by marrying you, as from the violence of his passion he will overlook your supposed misconduct, especially as you are of So tioble a family. By complying, you have a prospect of happiness; by not complying, certain misery.”
For Some time astonishment deprived me of Speech, my dear Harriot— — Heaven! avow myself a prostitute to gratify his unruly passion!
As Soon as 1 had a little recovered the use of my tongue, 1 asked him from what circumstance of my conduct it could ever, enter his thoughts that 1 should be capable of complying with such an infamous desire?
He stew into a rage, and vowed he would be the death of me if I dared impart to any one what had passed between us, I have not Seen him since, nor any visitor but Lady Walters, to whom I alleged a severe headache as an excuse for staying at home alone. I am distressed exceedingly.™ — -
, Lady
 I F E. 105
Lady Walters was my interruption; She came to entreat me to appear in public again, as it was rumoureci that a fit of jealousy confined me, which would render me an object of ridicule. She Said,, was it really the cafe, she should be Sorry, for’ me, but that generally such Sort of fancy was Soon dispelled; and, as v/e should be going to England Soon, she hoped the Marquis would banish from his heart Signora Guadicci.
“Who is this Signora Guadicci, Madam ?” returned 1, (being ignorant who his present idol was);.
“Indeed, Lady Melville, I know nothing of her, answered she, but that she h, a rich Italian widow, whom the world says the Marquis at present sighs for. — these things are So common, my dear niece, that I hope you will take my advice, and not make yourself unhappy at what cannot at present be remedied. Appear as usual with me, and flatter yourself that time will restore melville’s love to you again.”
I returned her thanks for her advice, and promised to Spend the evening at her house.
The Situation I am in reminds me of
I
mademoiselle Albe. Her bitter wishes
F 5 are
o6 THE MUTABILITY 017
are in part come to pafs. I wonder whether she really is in this city; — have reason to imagine not, as I have not Seen her in any public place since my arrival here. Neither her art nor beauty could make the Marquis inconstant; how attractive, then, must this Violetta, or Signora Guadicci, be!
It is time for me to conclude, or I shall! weary you with my complaints. Adieu!
%
V
I
from the Same to the Same.
Paris:
^ H E marquis’s behaviour alienates my affection from him. I shall, I believe, boast to you of my indifference. But, alas! it must necessarily be a work of time before I accomplish it. I certainly cannot esteem a man of such loose and wicked principles : yet there is something in the character of husband that claims attention, be he ever so abandoned. 3 cannot hate the Marquis, as he enjoined me; but I endeavour not to make myself unhappy' at his infidelity, which is all I ought to do.
I have
/
'1
H U M A N life; 107
I have Seen the enchantress who has. deprived me of my base husband’s heart,. Lady Walters persuaded me to attend her and some more company to the opera. We had not been long there before Melville entered an opposite box with hio Violetta. He did not perceive us, as'all his attention, was fixed on her the whole time. He seemed to gaze at her with a Silent rapture. I felt a violent emotion and trembling all over me, but endeavoured by all possible means to conceal it. Mr. Smith, an English gentleman of our party, who stood near me, observed my change of countenance, and took advantage of the first opportunity that presented itself to stand and intercept my viewy of the Marquis; He recited; Some drolf e vents with great humour, at which it was almost impossible to help laughing; tho’ I was so oppressed with sorrow and agony of heart. I. had before observed much humanity im this gentleman, and was now obliged by his kind intention; and.strove as much as possible to conquer my chagrin, for I was become an object of general attention. St. Lou Seemed to think that by his gallantry he could make amends for the marquis’s unkindness, but it only tended to bring on a relapse
of
0
)8
of grief, and I availed myself of Mr: smith’s interference to avoid him.
When the opera was over, Lady Walters insisted upon my shipping at her house, there being a great deal of company expected. I was but ill difposed for ir, yet I consented, in hopes of diverting my uneasiness of minsh Innocent amusements are laudable: we should en
I
deavour to Support, without repining, the misfortunes which cannot be avoided. Retirement and indulgence of my grief could not bring back the marquis’s as Section, and musing and heightening it by unavailing complaints would have been little better than upbraiding the Supreme disposer of all Things, by whose permission the affliction had come upon me.
When we arrived at Lady Walters’, the company formed themselves intosrhall parties. Mr. Smith happened to be Seated next me. “Your fortitude is worthy admiration, amiable Lady Melville, said be, and the marquis’s neglect and misconduct tinpardonable — But it is impossible it can be of long duration — The artful Guadicci must yield ycur just right over him — He will soon perceive her defects, and your Superior merit. excuse the liberty I take in noticing hisunw’orthy treatment of your
Ladyship, I sincerely wish you happiness,

 . loc
ness, Madam. My motives are disinterested. My heart is unalterably fixed oil one of the most amiable of women; and were you and she acquainted with each other, I am certain you would exchange friendships, as there is So great a similarity in your sentiments. But, alas! she is far distant, and unfortunate, ” added he, sighing, and pausing; after which he begged, that, if it was in his power to be in any respects serviceable to me, I would be frank enough to command him.
I returned him thanks for his obliging offer and good wishes. — We were Summoned to Supper, and were Separated.
A melancholy is distlised over this gentleman’s features; from whence I infer that the object of his wishes is not to be obtained.
You will, undoubtedly, my dear Harriot, wish fora description of this Violetta, who is the cause of the injury done to me by the Marquis. How improper a person am I to gratify you in this point.? Even in ordinary cafes, can a woman depict her rival in an amiable light? Yet, to Satisfy you,. I will do it as impartially as I am able. She has a dazzling complexion, but is not regularly featured — Her eyes are brilliant, and their fire denotes a tyrannic disposition— — Say no more of
her,
i!
lo
her, my dear friend. I am low fpirited, and unfit for writing. Adieu!
From the Same to the Same.
* Paris.
T vqrd and Lady Walters are going to
England; and the Marquis, who, I believe, detests the sight of me, has given orders to me to attend them. He says he will follow Soon. In the mean time, I am to hire a house proper Sorus to reside in. He Spoke in a peremptory manner, therefore I must comply, and leave the exulting Violetta in quiet possession of his com pany.
Ah! Harriot, my friend and comforter; unluckily fled from London; Oh! that you had not followed your aunt to Ireland!, Yet— — I am sick at heart — my soul is depressed beyond conception. You shall hear from me again wshen I arrive at London. Adieu!
Annette
i
 . III
J
Annette, the Marchioness of m.’s.l'vilhk's
tvoman, to Miss Meynel.
I
Madam, Paris.
%
js/{y Lady has been ill, very ill indeed. She had a violent fever,, which she bids me tell you in the best manner I am able, as file is still too weak to write herself. The Doctors said she would die of this inflaming fever, but my Lady Walters told me privately the Doctors of this country were ignorant fools. To be sure she is in the right. My Lord Marquis used to walk in and out twenty times a day, arid ask if her Ladyship was alive, but I from ray heart believe he wished to see the end of her. Poor lady! Everybody says his unkindness made her So bad. And I have Something to tell you. Madam; but I beg you will not mention it, for my Lady knows nothing of it. You must know a Mr. Smith and my Lord had liked to have killed each other. My master was walking in the Thuilleries with somesnora Guacchi, and Mr. Smith meeting them told my master a great deal about his ill treatment of my Lady, and rated the
Snora.
4
(ta
Snora much about her wicked condusl:; upon which the Marquis drew his Sword, and I don’t know how it was, but, however, they was parted — the lady pretended to saint — and soit ended. I am very glad to tell you, Madam, that my Lady is So much better, and has been out once in a carriage, and she will write soon herself. So I have discharged my duty. Hoping you will excuse this Scrawl, I remain.
Madam,
Your faithful
And obedient humble Servant,
Annette Lac ham,
'mcifcuonefs of Melville to Mtf
Meynel,
Paris.
It
Ordered Annette, my dear Harriot, to inform you of my illness, and recovery, that you might not wonder at my long Silence. The day I wrote last to you I was Seized with a violent fever, occasioned I believe, by the uneasiness of mind I had endeavoured So long to conceal: but I will Speak no more of it, turning itiy
thoughts
H U M A N L I F E. 113
thoughts to a pleafanter Subject. -- The
Marquis is kinder to me, my Harriot, and will accompany us to London in a few days. We are to be at my uncle Walters’ till we Settle in a house of our own; and then I hope, my amiable friend, to have your dear company. The Marquis will, perhaps, forget Violetta, and I shall be again at peace. Should, however, further trouble await me, I trusc my confidence will rest unshaken in the goodness' ' Providence, whose dispensations, though sometimes Seemingly Severe, being founded in infinite wisdom, claim, therefore, the implicit and cheatsul acquiescence of fallible mortals.
I met the Count de St. Lou yesterday
morning at the countess de B. -- -- -- -- -- .she
very gallantly congratulated me on my recovery, and whispered Something about unhappiness at not being So vrell received by me as Mr. Smith was — that he should be happy to protect me — and Some incoherent stuff I could make nothing of: therefore desired him to be Silent.
I beg you to put an end to all your im easiness concerning me, my dearest friend, as I am perfectly recovered.
Lady N -- -- -- -- is still at Laurel grove,
my Lord being confined by a fit of the gout; So that I shall not have the pleasure
of
[14
of Seeing them Some time; but I hear from her often. Adieu! my dear Harriot; I am going to a concert at the coun tefs de B -- -- -- -- -- ’s.
f
'%
A
I cannot dispatch my letter without informing you I have been exceedingly entertained. The Countest de B -- -- -- -- -- -- hasa
great fund of wit and humour, which she displayed tonight to the utter confusion of Mons. Vilmar, a coxcomb who is so excessively conceited of his own charms, that he thinks no woman can resist them. It seems he took it into his head to inform Mademoiselle Salens (a very amiable young lady, arid a friend of the countefs’s) that he did her the honour to admire her. She was ready to laugh in his face, and with a mixture of indifference and disdain, stanci ing with her hands folded, she answered“ “never.” To mortify his unbounded vanity the countess composed a song on the occasion, and Set it to a liidicrous tune. mons, Vilmar came to the concert, angry with the young lady for overlooking his imaginary qualifications, inlb much that he affected to take no notice of her. But judge of his chagrin when the
Countess,
4
t
1
H UM A N L I F E. 115
countess, coming to sing, with the greatest humour performed the song she had prepared for Mons vilmar’s reception, the
words of which were as follow;
*
\
Nymph divine, listen,
Oh I lillen to my voice,
Nor let me sue in vain,
But on me fix your choice.
She. No, never J
N
Never, Goddess bright,
Is too long a date j •
Do not thus oppress One you do not hate.
/
She, Yes. ever!
«. -
(Sung in anger)
Haughty Nymph, then know Thee I can despise;;
time may come that thou may’ft sigh for these bright eyes.
She. No, never [
Senseless Nymph, adieu!
In spite of all thy art,
Thy spells, thy charms, are vain,
i’m master of my heart.
She ‘with disdain, laughing.
Poor Swain, adieu!
The
ii
The lady’s responses were sung in the manner of ariel’s echo to Ferdinand in the Tempest:, and had a very droll effect. A general mirth ensued, and Mons. Vilmar decamped in a great passion. But it is time for repose— — in the morning, Adieu!
♦ ^
P
From tu Same to th Same,
London.
■"'BT
Vv^ R arrived here safe a fortnight since; but the Marquis has not yet met with a house to his liking. The Duke of -- -- -- — and all my relations have favoured
us with their company, and seem to approve Melville much, : yet he was apparently confused, and received their compliments with a sort of reluctance. Perhaps the consciousness of his ill treatment of me at Paris was the realbn of it, I Sear he has not Sorgot Violetta. He is very polite to me before my friends, but cool and Sullen when alone. Indeed, I ought not to be Surprised at it; a passion so violent as that he had for her cannot be
suppressed
%
LIFE. 117
Supprclled inltantaneoniiy. 1 muit wait with patience for the gradual return of his affection. Adieu! my dear Harriot; be assured you shall soon again hear from me; when I hope to send you a fumrnons to come hither to a new habitation, which 1 wish we may speedily meet with.
From the Same to the Same.
t
London.
in what words shall I describe my misery
?. — — Oh! I cannot -- -- -- -- Horror, distraction,
seizes mea cold sweat ensues— — am -- -- -- -- --
A fainting'fit happily deprived me of fensation — I no longer felt my wretched ness. Why did I return to life In vain I call on Death for relies; the Spectre sties the wretched.
base, inhuman, abandoned Melville! the stings of conscience and remorse will
pursue
f
ii
pur sue thee even in the arms of Violetta, on whose account thou hast thus barbar ousty treated me. Oh! Harriot, I am ruined, undone — my reputation is lost for ever.
The night that his cruel plot was put in execution, being exceeding Sleepy, I went to bed at twelve, and told Annette to retire, as I should Soon be asseep. So it happened : but Twas Soon awaked to a new Icene of woe, A violent altercation and fioise roused me. I started up in bed, and found the curtains undrawn. Lord Walters, his gentleman, Melville, and his valet, stood at the Sect of the bed, and Count de St. Lou in his shirt was endeavouring to disengage himself from them. Amazed and terrified at the sight, I demanded an explanation.
It is in vain to assert your innocence, said ray uncle : guilt is too plainly proved upon you. The Count was caught escaping from your bed — thou vile prostitute!. — disgrace to thy family! — A fine effect this of prudery! — You, sorsooth, coujd not endure.common civilities from the Count; behold the contrast -- -- in England too!
‘‘ If I knew the count was in London, or have dishonoured the marquis’s bed, may” " -- -- -- --
Cease
H U M A N L I F E. 119
cease your asseverations, Adelaide, Said Melville, and add not to your guilt by a denial. Then, turning to Lord Walters, with a Soothing artful air, I am sorry, my Lord, (said he,) a woman related to so noble a family should sofar forget herself, and disgrace, her blood : but I must now inform you of a truth, which, if she had continued faithful, I would ever have concealed— — — is not my wife.
^ “Not your wife, ” echoed the Earl while astonishment struck me dumb.
She is not, my Lord, continued Melville, but willingly became tuy rnistrefs; arfter which, as a recompense for her seeming affection and constancy, and out of consideration to her family, I permitted her to take my name : but now I discard her, and .am free. I need not assert such
0 s)
a thing, you are sensible, shy Lord, if it was not fact, as I should now have it in my power, was she really my wife, to obtain a divorce.
Good Heaven! display my innocence, exclaimed I in agony — Count St. Lou, will you say that I encouraged you to come hither? -- -- -- --
He shook his head, but answered nothing.
Oh! Melville, tell me, cried I, in the name of all that is sacred, have you fiiffer
ed
120
ed me to be polluted? — x\m I really undone -- -- -- -- --
“That is strange language, Madam, to make use of to me and the present company — You must know best the degree of your guilt. — But we have no further business here now — You are at liberty, Madam, to pursue your intrigues — I bid you adieu for ever, ”
Count St, Lou went; Lord Walters and his servant retired; the Marquis and his valet likewufe : but Melville returned almost instantly, while 1 was in agonies unspeakable.
- Adelaide, wliifpered he, for your private Satisfaction, I Swear, in the most solemn manner, that I leave you unpouiited. The Count was but just put into your chamber, when I arrived at it with Manville; your uncle followed. I loved another, and could not exist without her. Take my last advice; accept of St. Lou, he will marry you, and make you happier than I was capable of. I have left you virtuous. Adieu!
• Annette, being awaked by the confu sion and noise this affair caused in the liouse, came and Sound me in a state of in senfibility, just after the Marquis departed. She gave me Some drops, and endeavoured to rouse me. I burst into a flood of
tears
 . 121
9
tears and laughed alternately, then sunk into faintings. The good-natured girl lamented over me, and went to inform Lady Walters I was dying; who did not think, proper to rise, but sent for a physician. Being delirious, I fell into violent ravings before him, cryfng out, my liufi band had caused me to be ravished — that Mr. foster’s ghost would appear to assert
my innocence -- -- -- that Melville had run a
penknife into my heart, which gave me great pain — with other incoherent expressions of horror and distress.
t
Doctor Opium told Annette that my disorder seemed to proceed from affliction; on' which she, with her natural frankness, related what had happened. He shook his head, and said he feared I had been hardly used— — he did not know what to make of the story. He, however, sent some medicines, which composed and relieved me by morning.. Lady Walters then came, and inquired after my health; when, finding me better, she ventured to speak of the night feene. I assured her I was innocent, but to no purpose;; would not believe me, and insisted that i should leave her house when I was recovered, since I had behaved in so obstinate and ridiculous a manner; and, preposterous as
vol. I. G it
122 T H E M U T ABI LI T Y 0 F
it may seem, she hinted, that, if I had really been married to the Marquis, my amour with St Lou would, not have been disgracesul.
Two days aster,! informed Lady N — r, by letter, with the particulars of my un sortunate Situation. The Marquis told me besore the completion of his villainy, that. lie had accidentally destroyed the certificate of our marriage.; but little did I suf pect his'diabolical, project. I'begged Lady N — — to pity me, at'least not totally to condemn me, till the confirmation of my valuable friend Mr. foster’s death should put it out of my power to proye my marriage with the Marquis; for, is that could be proved, I hoped to find means,
. through the. goodnest of Providence, to clear, up my innocence in regard to St. Lou.
;
Being of a more humane dispofition than Lady Walters, she wrote to a Mrs.
More, in E -- -- -- -- street, to receive me at
her lodgings, till I had consulted Some eminent lawyer, to whom she bid me apply, and give directions, if Mr. Forster should be living; after which I might come to Laurel grove : but she did not choose it should be known that she countenanced me
at present; on this account I must call myself

H U M A N L I F E. 123
Self Miss Avelini, and pafs for an Italian, under which name she Had by letter recommended me to Mrs. More.
• P
%
#
I was obliged my dear Harriot, to la aside my pen, as I found my usual faintness almoss; overpowering me. I have not yet recovered the shock of the last: stroke upon my honour, though a whole month
has since elapsed. I could not -- -- -- dared
not -- -- write sooner to you, as I had not
strength to, go through the task of reciting ray misfortunes. I continued a week at Lady walter’s; the Earl was so irritated, that he would not see me. I sent Annette to most of my relations, to affure them of my innocence, and that the charge was a plot of the Marquis to get rid of me, as I could not prove my marriage: They all persisted in the same answer, that they believed me guilty, and would never again see me. Annette wept with me. To describe the agonies I endured, and, indeed, at all times, still endure, is impossible.
I Sent Several letters to the Marquis, written in as affecting a manner as I could
G % pen
124 T HE M UT A BILIT Y OF
pen them; but he returned me verbal messages that he would have ndthing more to say to me.
To heighten my affliction, one evening Annette came and informed me, alady, who said she was an intimate friend of mine, desired earnesily to speak to me. A small ray of hope that it might be my Harriot, gave me joy for a moment. 1 ordered Annette to bring her to me. She did, and retired.
I was exceedingly mortified at my disappointment in feeing aftrariger, but desired her to be stated on a couch opposite to that whereon I was reclined.
“Do you not know me, Madam ?” said she, falling at my feet. Ah I Harriot, guess if you can my surprise and horror at difcgvering the pretended Jhe to be the Count de St. Lou.
“Wretch !- — I could utter no more — Surprise and terror Struck me dumb — 1 could not even call for relief.
My silence gave him an opportunity of telling me, that the violent passion he had for me prompted him to agree to the marquis’s request, in hopes that I would at
last yield to his wishes. that he adored
me more than ever -- -- -- pitied my present
illness and distress— — — that, sooner
than
✓
 . 125
than lose me, though I had been melville’s mislrefs, he would make me his wife, and rescue my reputation from the aspersions by which it was now obscured. ‘
I trembled exceedingly, and with difficulty rung the bell.
Lady Walters entered with Annette.
It seems, Lady Wasters’ woman having informed her that a stranger was ad mitted into my apartment, her Lad ship had gone into the next room to listen.
She was gratified -- -- -- She heard everything.

Rise, my Lord, said she, (he alwaytr had been a favourite of. hers;) the disguise you have put on, and the sentiments 1 have heard you avow, convince me of the sincerity and ardency of your passion for my unhappy niece. Surely, Adelaide, you cannot refuse to lend an ear to such generous proposals, and, avoid being further disgraceful to your friends, by obliterating your past misconduct by a compliance with the Count's honourable desires.
A few tears came fealbnably to my re -- .lief. Ah! Madam, answered I, would you have me incur the guilt of bigamy
-- -- - — However the Marquis may disown
and condemn me, I am really his vise,
ancl
26
and while he lives I never can become another’s.
Upon this her Ladyship flew into a violent rage with me for so obstinately persisting in that wicked assertion. The Count renewed his felicitations; and, ' my spirits being quite overpowered, I fainted.
%
When I returned to my senses, I found myself accompanied by Annette only. In about an hour after, she was sent for by the Eari and and his Lady, and brought back word that they would neither of them ever speak To me shore, except I would receive Count St. lou’s addresses, and regain my reputation by becoming his wife.
With annette’s assistance I repaired to their presence, and, falling upon my knees, in the most solemn manner I assured them of my innocence, declaring I was married in my father’s presence— — I might as well have spoken to the wind — they were immoveably fixed in the belief of my guilt, and insisted on my seeking an asylum elsewhere as soon as my strength would permit.
Cut, to the heart with this inhuman treatrnent, Surely, my Lord, said I, you
will not permit your own brother’s daughter
H C M A N L I F E. izj
ter to become a vagabond — a fupphant to strangers for a morsel of bread, to fupport' that life she wishes at an end, - but mush not shorten.
Hence! said the Earl, stamping his foot' in a passion; you have other secret lovers
to supply you -- -- Dare not insult me wntli
your hypocritical, cant, and pretence of virtue.
i retired almost in a state of distraction to my chamber. Ah! Harriot, I have nocomfort under this m'ostgrievous affliction: but that derived from the possession of a heart confeious of integrity, and entirely clear of the accusations urged againsh me.
I endeavoured to calm my mind; but I found that would be impossible while I remained in that place of abode. In spite of my earnest entreaties, Count St. Loiu was forced into my company, with hopes that he would at last interest me in his favour.
As I, was to go to Mrs. more’s under a « fictitious name, it was necessary to leave Earl Walters’ privately, and without taking Annette with me; and therefore i feized an opportunity one evening, whem almost all the family were our, to pack up, my clothes, and, stepping softly to the door, called a.hackney coach (you know
there..
i
!28
tnere is a stand in the street;) then, having by the coachman’s assistance secured my trunks in the coach, I unpereeived stepped into it, and drove to Mrs. more’s, who, having expected me sometime, was prepared to receive me..
I left in my apartment a letter for Lord and Lady Walters. I returned them thanks for past Savours, and observed, that, since they would not be convinced of my innocence, and I was become So hate sul to them, it was unnecessary to inform them where I vas gone. But I entreated Lady .Walters, out of compassion to Annette, who was a good faithful Servant, to bestosv a character on her, and, if possible, get her a place, as I could not pretend to keep a maid longer, and in all probability should be obliged to descend to Servitude myself for Subsistence.
I wrote to the poor girl likewise, to thank her for her affectionate care of me; enclosed her wages, and a Small present
besides. -- -- — Annette will still continue
in the station she has always been used to; whilst I, perhaps, shall she degraded to -- Hold, my troubled Spirit; suppress the Suggestions of despair. — Indeed, I am angry with myself for not Submitting to my sufferings with more patience; as if I believed
 I F E. izg
hewed not, that “all things work together for good to them that love God.”
Avoiding reflections on this event as much as possible, I have recited everything with all the brevity and precision in my power.
Letters are dispatched to Leghorn, and to Mr. foster’s relations in different parts; the answers to which will ascertain rov doom. If he really has perished, I shall be lost for ever, unable as I shall then be to prove anything against the inhuman Melville.
In the mean time I shall go to Laurel
Grove : Lady N — -- -- -- -- -- ’s cshaife will meet
me. at Hatfield, Remember my name is now Avelini : direct to me under that appellation at Lady N — -- -- -- -- ’s house.
Resignation under misfortunes like mine is not the easiest of tasksi The mask of dissimulation is so artfully put on, and Vice So frequently imposts upon the world in the disguise of Virtue, that it is very difficult to discern the truly honest character, which often in distress fails to meet with its deserved regard and support— — are those young females who have ‘ parents to protect them from the hand of violence and the tongue of calumny! May you, my ever amiable friend, never by a villain be deprived pf reputation (that
G 5 jewel
30
jewel which to our sex is inestimable), nor experience any other of the woes of
I
The wretched
% /
Adelaide Melville
$
%
\
. Continuation, to Mrs. Gordon.
JP H E history of my misfortunes, Madam, is drawing to a period. I wrote a few letters to miss Meynel, from Laurel grove, which she has mistaid : they chiefly consisted, however, of unavailing complaints. It remains further to be related,
that Lady N —; -- -- -- -- received from Lady
Walters information of my flight, and (as it was termed) imprudent refusal of the Count St. Lou, who was almost distracted at the loss of me; and that Lady Walters had taken Annette into her service.
In three months time letters arrived to complete my raifery, informing that the vessel in which Mr. Foster sailed was certainly wrecked, and every one on board
perished.
• \
H U M A N L I F E. 131
perished. All his relations, too, confirmed it.
Lady — — accused me of art and difi simulation;; was very plain, she said, I knew of Mr. fosler’s death, and had had. recourse to an unwarranted use of his. name to give probability to my (lory that I was too abandoned for her to protect me, and therefore I must: quit her house, and return to my favourite mode of life. She would not permit me to speak in my own defence.
Thus cruelly treated, my dear Madam, and Thus situated, was I, when we met. You have endeavoured to procure me happiness, and conducted me to a safe harbour. I wish never to change my situation, as I am sure. I cannot meet with a i better among strangers.
You are now acquainted, my dear Mrs. Gordon, with the particulars of a story much talked of in the beau monde, by whom I am accounted guilty. The Marquis is married to Violetta, and, I find, is bringing her to England. I think she must have done violence to her conscience, though no doubt the Marquis' is principally the guilty person.
Ah! Mademoiselle Albe, .1 should now be an otyect. of thy compassion, were we to
: Thou wquldst recall thy Titter
wishes
m
4
52
wishes — wouldsl weep with me — for thy heart is not void of compassion!
But complaints are fruitless, my dear Mrs. Gordon; nevertheless, I have confidence in Divine Providence, who, by your means, has conducted me to my present happy asylum. Various, are the evils of life, and, considering my years, of which the twentieth is not yet eompleat ed, I think I have experienced many.
Adieu! Madam. Be assured your kindness and charity will ever be in my grateful remembranee, and I shall always remain, your very affectionate
And obliged humble Servant
Silena Howard,
y.
m
s
• ^
%
Mss Howard to Miss Meynel.
w
Ehfium place.
M R. villars’s benevolence and humanity make him almost adored by the poor peasants here. He relieves their distresses, and makes life comfortable to them as far as he is able. Indeed, poor wretches,
they
 . 135
they land in need of assistance. The hovels they inhabit are formed with clay, and in my opinion are fitter for dogs than the human Species in this bleak country. Some of them are Scattered on mountains, miles apart from each other, and in winter are attacked by tremendous blasts, which would strike with horror a being not accustomed, to them. The poor women suffer inexpressible hardships, (it is our lot to suffer)) in childbirth; — they put themselves under the care of the most ignorant and hardhearted wretches, misnamed midwives, who have no other method of bringing the poor child into the world, than almost shaking its unhappy mother out of it. They take the poor agonised creature by the legs, with her head hanging downward, and shake her unmercifully, till at last perhaps she is happily deprived of sensation. Thus not a few are sacrificed: : however, through strength of constitution, aqd the mercy of Providence, escape with life, and Nature at last works its way.
There are particular customs amongst the plebeians of every country When a couple are married here, they are attended, perhaps, by two or three hundred people; the men drop a shilling apiece, the v7omen sixpence, for the bride and bridegroom
34
groom to begin the cares of life with. They are regaled for it with bread and butter, milk, oat bread, and Soiiietimes bread and ale.
What I have mentioned is the common food of this country. Ule makes them contented and happy with it while blessed with health. sickness and poverty are hard endurance everywhere. In general, from my own observation, and the superior judgement of Mr. Villars, I must mark the Welsh as a lazy fet of people — they are afflicted with what the physicians term fomnolenna continua; you may perceive it even by their gait of walking. There is one county, indeed, whose inhabitants are naturally blessed with more penetration and vivacity than the others, for which reason they are overlooked by these leaden mortals as children of folly. Genius is ever envied.
Mr. Villars tells me he has frequently observed, in these parts, that on evenings, in families where a number of servants are collected together, after the businest of the day is cornpleated, instead of amu stng themselves, they sit in circles fast asteep; in the cottages the same. The harp will sometimes allure them to the exercise of dancing; but in general Some
niis reigns. Till within these few yeam
-- -- - most
 . 1.35
most part ot this country was as barren
as Scotland; the natural indolence and
* /
ignorance of the farmers witheld them from cultivating their lands; but the land? lords beginning.to raise their rents, neces lity roused them from their error, and they are now convinced that industry, will perform miracles.
Mrs. Villars discovers nothing to contradict my. former account of her : she continues very friendly andjdnd to me, and laughs as usual..
Mr. shenkin’s. family, often vifft us: Miss talks much of a Lady Di Horton she corresponds with, who is a great wit according to her report, and has promised to grace Shenkin hall with her, presence sometime or other She is a widow, I find.
Lord Clandon and. Mr. Clairville come frequently also. The latter behaves to me with great respect; but his Lordship is too frequently making use of language not proper for me to attend to. I check his impertinence as'much as possible by my severe looks, but he is not easily dis countenanced. He has apparently a serious design on Miss Shenkin, or rather her fortune, but would prefer me for his mistress I suppose. Mr. Villars says he is a great libertine, However, I am sufficiently

136
ciently safe tinder the protection of my worthy friends, who would not admit him to their house, were they not ignorant of. his behaviour to me.
Mr. villars’s Spirits are exhilarated by the hopes of seeing his beloved nephew. Lord Villars, in a few days, who is represented as one of the most: amiable men existing, both in person and morals. He has been very unfortunate in marriage, his father (since dead) having compelled him to wed against his liking; but he is now released from the bonds of matrimony by that too fashionable method, a divorce. She was Lady Mary TC -- -- -- -- -- --, and, according
to common report, a very abandoned woman, I hope, as he is so worthy a better fate, that if he does venture upon marriage again, he may meet with a lady who will make him amends for the unhappiness he experienced in his first connubial connexion.
. It gives me great pleasure to contemplate the romantic beauties about this place. I feel a calm tranquillity stealing on my mind, and hope soon, my dear Harriot, to be able to inform you, with truth, that I have forgot all my misfortunes in this peaceful retreat, in conducting me to which the mercy of Providence is manifest, and I hope 1 shall never cease.. adore it. You
 . 137
You gave me some intimation in your last concerning your going to a masquerade. Inform me, I pray you, how you approved it. Revive me a little. I shall soon, I hope, be able to regain my usual vivacity, which I have long had reason to banish. I now seem fettled for life; and, to be quite happy, I have only to forget that I ever hacl any other friends than you and my kind benesactors here. Adieu!
I
• A
m
Miss Mevnil to Mss Howard.
Diilrml
0
“EVIVE you, ” Silena, who are happily got into Elysium! what a requess;! When you quitted Laurel Grove, could you imagine you were about to make lb agreeable an exchange! But, as you are a good girl, and tolerably contented, I will not chide : a truce, then, Silena, with sur there complaints. I am sister to the Sage pangloss, and, folding my hands, cry, “Everything is for the best it is not for us shortsighted mortals to arraign the
dispen
38 THE MUTABILITY.DF
, dispensations of infinite wisdom. You are a dear, good creature, I must confess. and mislrefs of so much resignation and: patience, that it is actually injustice to accuse you of want of ir, even in raillery. Indulge mirth, my dear girl; laugh at the follies'of the rustic’fquires around you — anything to divert feflectioh: but I cannot advise youuo be So very giddy as your Harriot; because, .then, perhaps,, you might justly incur censhre.
You must, it seems, have' an account of the masquerade. Here it comes, then Silena; though i’m afraid you’ll think my description insipid, :
Lady Bell M.' was dressed in the character of Calypso; her three sisters and some ladies asattendant nymphs; myself close to her side as a girl of Patmos; Lord M -- -- -- as Mercury; and some other gentlemen
in various dresses.
After we had been at thi s seen of confusion near an hour, I grew tired. Instead of wit, I heard nothing but“ “you know me “I know you” — “A divine
creature !” and such stuff. As I was leaning on Lady bell’s arm, complaining of the dullness of. the place, the sinest figure I ever behelsh entered, dressed as the Clown in the Twelfth Night. Coming up to us, Fair, maid, ” said he“ “
you
 . isg
9
you answer a fool? You are arrived in a
land of them -- -- -- Tho’ I have the honesty
openly to appear as one, yet, like other fools, I think myself a wise man -- -- Self
conceit blinds the whole world -- -- We see
\ ’
not our own follies -- -- -- To the old tune,
then -- -- -- -- Can you speak our language?
-- -- Have you been long imported from
Patmos?
“Just long enough to wish myself back again, ” said I, with a sigh“ “histo ’ ry, good Mr. Fool, is as follows : a violent storm which dashed a vessel to pieces against our shore, threw on land an Eng,, the only one who escaped with life. This Englishman pretended to love me, and, according to the manner of his countrymen, endeavoured by false oaths to ensnare me. My virtue being proof against his flattery, he took the first opportunity to escape, and cruelly left me. I prayed To Jupiter, entreating that he would permit me once more to behold the perfidious wretch, to upbraid him with the theft of
my affection. My prayer was heard -- -- -- -- -
Mercury instantly appeared, and conducted me through the air to this motley assembly, telling me at the same time, that my own language had been conveyed from me into the third Heaven with (orlando!^s wits, and in its room was substituted the
English
140
English one. I found my lover, and accused him — he fled; since which, having regained my liberty, d am impatiently expecting Mercury to restore me to my native home and language.”
“Thanks, fair maid, for your explicitnefs. Will you accept the Service of a
Fool while you” — -- -- -- -
Lord B -- -- -- came up, saying“ “
gone, Mr. Fool, you. are not lit company, for these fair maids.”
He made a most graceful bow, and sung in character,, 1 am gone, and anon, Sir, ” c. then tripped away, while a large group was listening to and admiring him.
Lady Bess' ffnding it very warm, we retired to a small room to cool ourselves“
“can this clown be said Hie; there is something enchanting in his
manner. -- -- -- What a fine story, too, you
formed!”
While she was speaking, the Fool entered with a guittar — We were unmasked — “Heavens!” cried he, and started. We clapped on our masks hastily again.
What now, good Mr. Foolfaid her Ladyship. He answered not, but sung to the guittar, “Come away, Death, ” c. then tripped off as before.
Calypso..
/
L I F E. 141
Calypso, leaving two of her nymphs with me, returned to the assembly. The room we were in began to fill, and my chattering friends were laughing away with the Montagues, when a gentleman in a domino entered, whom by his very attractive air, Silena, I guessed to be my flirting swain, and - was not mistaken. Turning his back to the company, and addressing himself to me, ‘‘ Fair maid, ” laid he, “I have now affemed a dress more suitable to my realcharacter, ” and, drawing aside his mask, which concealed a beautiful face void of effeminancy, was proceeding, I admire you beyond my power of expression, and” — — “Hold, ” said I, “you know I am prejudiced against dll your conn try men— — include you with them— — will not accept your friendship — never again listen to a stranger — Leave me, then, Sir, to my destiny.” A murmur of “It certainly is he” was uttered by the Montagues -- -- -- -- He started at the
words, and exclaiming “Cruel fate he •sted.
To confess the truth, I was vexed at his 'Sudden departure; but Soon recollecting myself, “and who is he.?” said I.
“Why the gentleman in the character
of Tancred, who followed the domino
out
142
out of the room, is the Hon. Mr. V -- --
a most: charming fellow !”
“Oh, hideous I” cried I, at my fresh disappointment. Lady Bell soon after joined us; burr, finding my swain had been frightened away, I grew weary, told her I was satisfied with the amusement as she called it, and was desirous of retiring. Lord M — — - handed me to my chair, and home came your Harriot very safe.
Now, was I one of your melting souls, I should most undoubtedly have got an account to give you, that 1 had a steeplefs morning (night being past,) and that the form of this enchanting unknown still hovered in my light. To tell the truth, I Slept well, but he was the first person I thought of when I ’waked. However, I shall drive him away from my memory. What! fall in love at first sight! — —
Ridiculous! -- -- — Quite in the romance
way, indeed. -- -- A creature I may never
See again, too. — -- -- -- Oh! it must not
be. Adieu! monsieur Fool; adieufor ever!
i Lord and Lady Lorton are Soon going to London, and poor I am to be left with Mrs. Murray Seeking adventures, lest my luckless form should deprive my cousin of
his heart. He is to leave Paris in three
months
 . 14j
months I find, and captivate the English
ladies with his accomplishments, which my uncle has heard are now absolutely ir resislible. Before I saw this Fool, I wished
to see my coiifin, but now -- -- -- -- -- Pshaw!!
have no patience with rhyfelf to fancy a stranger so — — a will o’th’wifp -- -- -- -- -- a phantom
never more to be found. Positively I must lay aside my pen, Silena, till I have overcome this folly, for I shall tyre you as well as myself. My dear girl, think of all the cheerful things you can; never indulge Sfadnefs; and continue xo love
y
J ^
♦ ^..
#
"Your very sincere friend,
*
0
4
%
y
Harriot Meynell.
V
0
Mtfs
0
• •
144 the mutability; of
i
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.
Elyfum place,
0 *
Mm
JET me hope, my amiable Harriot, you will yourself make use of the advice your last; letter to me concludes with. It is very necessary for one in your apparent situation. From the natural liveliness of your disposition, together with the variety of company you fall into, and the good sense you are mistress of, I flatter myself that you will be able soon to erase from your tender thoughts the idea of a stranger whom you may never more meet with, or who, if you should see him again, is perhaps unworthy of your attention. Be guided by these prudential dictates, my dear friend, and let. me have the pleasing satisfaction of a sincere assurance from you, that Mr. Fool never arises in your memory but in common with the other
circumstances attending your adventure at
the masquerade.
Miss
.J
H U M A N L I F E. 145
Mise Shenkin interrupted me. She is quite in raptures with Lord Villars, who is just arrived. “I musl infallibly lose my heart, ” says she, “he is so angelic.” I shook my head, assuring her it was very safe, spite of all his charms. “impossible” ” she — but you have not yet seen him. Allons. Silena; come,
come, make haste -- -- -- -- Mrs. Villars desires
you will repair to the Temple of Flora, to make tea, as my Lord seems to admire it, and the day is so warm. But, adieu! i’ll not waste time with you; depechez vousv So saying, away she stew. I must follow, my dearest Harriot; for I am not mistress of my time.
When I descended to the parlour, Davy informed me that his mistress and company were gone to the garden, had sent my lute there, and desired I would bring the music of Acis and Galatea. I obeyed; Mr. Villars and my Lord meeting me before I arrived at the temple. Lord Villars treated me with as much tenderness and respect as if he had been acquainted with my misfortunes and birth. Methonght, nevertheless, there was a mixture of confusion in his manner; but possibly this
vol. I. H imagi
.r4b
•»
miagination proceeaea omy trom my tears
of being known.
H is Lordship is really blessed with the finest form I ever beheld, even much Superior to the cruel author of my misery, though I once thought that was impossible; for, whatever the inhuman melville’s faults are, his person is certainly admirable : but on Lord viliars’s countenance is impressed a benignity and goodness which leem the resuit of innate virtue. When he speaks, a soothing pershafion dwells on his accents which in a manner forces at
t
tention. Lady Villars must certainly have been lost to virtue before she became his ^ wife, or she could never have Slighted a man altogether o Sormed to please. Poor woman! her repentance now cannot regain him — r -- -- -- -- she issree to range — — — -
is lost. But you desired me not to be grave, theresore 1 must desist from Surther reflection.
After tea, miss Shenkin played Several tunes, and exerted herself in singing; it was then my turn; after which his lord ship Savoured us with Several Savourite airs, and persormed to admiration: the .instrument Seemed possessed of sounds lii perior to what was ever heard from it besore. Excels of pleasure made u? mute
dor Some minutes after he had done. Mrs.
Villars
 . 147
Villars was the first wlio broke silence: : “vow, my Lord, ” said she laughing,
“you fing delightsully -- -- -- -- Lord! how
could Lady Villars ever be tired of hearing you? 1 declare, nephew, I think you make as good an Orphus as any god that Mr. Villars reads of Ha! ha! ha! don’t you think so, Miss Shenkin ?”
“I, protest, Mrs. Villars, you have made a very judicious remark; my Lord certainly plays and sings to admiration.”
His Lordship bowed to their compliments. Mr. Villars and your friend returned him thanks for the delight he had afforded us. After walking for an hour or two, we returned to the house. Miss Shenkin with great reluctance took her leave, but has promised to be with us again to raorrow, The night is far advanced, my dear Harriot; therefore I must conclude with wishing you health and a restoration of your former serenity
of mind.
\
\.
)
/
Silena Howard:
H 2
148
I
d(?r^/villars to Duncan Paris
Elyjium place.
HERE art thou, Duncan? Three letters, and no return! They were carried to the different posl houfes by various hands indeed; but they certainly were put in : yet I know not what to think of it. Thou hast not received them I must stip pofe, or silence would Icarce so long have prevailed; therefore 1 musl give thee an abridgment of the contents : they recited to thee a confirmation of rny having gained a bill of divorcement against Mary, my wife; — my journey to Lord N — — ’s, and inquiry after the charming Avelini;
-- -- a refusal to my request, with an a
vowabthat he did not know where she was gone. In hopes of gaining information, I acquainted him with the situation of my heart. He seemed surprised, and confused;; at last, to ease my pain, as he declared, informed me I could nor gain her — She was engaged to another, therefore could never think of me. No, no,
said
 . 149
said he, as if speaking to himself with regret, it can never be. His words made me unhappy; and, to endeavour to relieve my anxiety, I determined to come hither, where, by the force of reason, and the powerful arguments of my. uncle, (whom I intended making my confident)
I hoped to regain my liberty, and be restored to tranquillity, as the fair cause of my unhappiness was in honour bound to another. Hither I came, Duncan, and found with Mr. and Mrs. Villars a Welsh girl who endeavours to affect the bon-ton., and is abfolately ridiculous. My uncle was elevated at the sight of me, and immediately conducted me to the garden, wdiere numberless improvements have been made since my last visit. Finding me pleased with a new pavilion,, called the Temple of Flora, he ordered tea to be brought there, and, as I was fond of music, bid the servant tell Miss Howard she must come there to make tea, and bring a music book with her. This Miss Howard, he informed me, was companion to his wise; an amiable, accornplished young woman, who had met with misfortunes. which reduced her to that capacity. From his recommendation I expected to meet with an agreeable woman; when, observing
50
serving her at a distance, he said, we will walk to meet her if you arc not tired, Harry.
You cannot expect; me to express what I felt, Duncan, when I discovered, miss Howard and the charming Avelini to be the same person. It was with the greatest difficulty imaginable I concealed my sensations. After making tea, which she did with a grace peculiar, to herself, and miss Shenkin had fqualled us almost deaf, the lovely maid favoured us with a few songs. At the sound of her angelic voice it was with difficulty, Charles, I could forbear throwing myself at her feet, and declaring how much I adored her. I was obliged in turn to perform, though not to my own satisfaction; the company, however, honoured me with their commendations. Miss Howard was polite and pleasing, without a femblanceof flattery. She has that ease and politeness of behaviour which ever distinguishes ladies of the first fashion. But, in spite of the height to which my passion is raised, I am determined to be on my guard, and find out her private history before I acquaint her with my sentiments: for which reason I behave to her with respect only, and am certain she has no idea of my foster feelings. We pafs our time agreeably : she is a woman
of
 . 151
0
of refined sense, but was an entire stranger to my unde before she was recommended here. Now, I am very anxious to discover what her engagement is, and
why Lord -- -- -- disowned knowing where
she was. I took an opportuniry this rnorning of naming him before her : she blushed exceedingly.. I canst believe she has any engagement; yet what could be
her connexion at Lord -- -- -- -- -- ’s; he
mush know her affairs.. Sometimes I am almost determined to inform her. that L saw her there. I know not what to do, and dare not now/advife with my uncle. This Welsh plague, :.. Miss Shenkin, attends our steps so, that 1 cannot find my charmer one moment alone. Then, Duncan, Lord clandon..is here too, with your old companion Clairville, who both seem convinced ofstistr powerful attractions; so that I am, obliged to conceal my passion with the greatest care, and watch my every action with vigilance. She behaves to Claifyille, I think, with attention and respect, but visibly avoids Clandon as shuch as possible. A melancholy is still impressed fed on her beautiful features -- -- She frequently sighs too -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Ah I Duncan, there
is some mystery -- -- 1 must seek it out; for
Lsind I shall be miserable without her; she •
, isv ■
ISZ
^ “* _____________
is lo uncommon a woman -- -- -- -- lo voia or
affectation -- and has such solidity of
judgement, for one so young! -- -- -- But the
more I think, the more I am bewildered. — Surely I cannot be deceived in her. Write to me, Charles, inform me if thou dost still exist, and be free with advice to thy fdend
Villars,
Mtfs Howard to Miss Meynel.
%
Place,
X FEAR you do not deal stncerely with me, my dear Harriot, when you declare the idea of the stranger is banished from, your heart. Spite of your endeavours a gainst it, a languidnefs I never before observed appears throughout your letter, and convinces me all is not right. Ah my friend, to deceive me is nothing, but deceive not yourself: reflect on the dangerous consequence of fostering the thoughts
of an entire stranger in your breast; think
how
 . 153
how it may -- -- -- nay, must, if you persist
in it -- -- embitter your whole life. The
more indulgence you give to reflection on this phantom, the more agreeable he will be to your imagination. His first appearance was engaging in a seen of gaiety — He continues charming, because you had not an opportunity by subsequent interviews to perceive his faults, and how very unworthy of your affection in reality he may be. I hope my amiable Harriot will listen to her Silena; the sincerest friendship ever felt dictates my pen. Avoid solitude, the nurse of love, and strive by various amusements and objects to overcome a sentiment which, if cherished, must render you unhappy. I drop the subject, my dear friend, with wisliing that the disquiet which I am afraid at present invades your bolbm, may soon give place to your accustomed ease and sprightliness.
Lord Villars, by a further acquaintance, prove’s still more worthy one’s good opinion. His merit rises superior to any man’s I ever met with. It is well my dess tiny was fixed before I saw him, or perhaps I might foolishly have bestowed my heart where there would have been no probability of a return, His taste is very refined, and I don’t think he seems likely
H 5 to.
54.
to fix his regard with precipitation. I fancy he will be difficult in his choice; Sew women will Suit him. His Sather compelled him to marry Lady Mary T -- -- -- -- -- -- --,
theresore his own choice has not yet been discovered. I Srequently wish his Lordship and you were known to each other, and that your mutual happiness might be
the consequence. -- -- -- But perhaps it would
not prove So; we mortals Seldom Sorm right Judgement as to the happiness or misery ossuturity: I osten reflect on the great pleasure my marriage afforded my dear father in his lasl moments; yet how contrary to his kind expectations did it prove! -- -- ^but let me wave that dreadsul Sub
Poor miss Shenkin Speaks to me in confidence frequently of Lord Villars. According to her method of delivering her Sentiments, “he is charming pall description” -- -- - “his power is irresislible”
— — and there is “no withstanding his alluring manner.” But, as she has no hopes of a conquest over him, she yields to Lord ciandon’s flattery, and would not be averse to receive his hand. I have a voided this lord’s company as much as poss] ble.
Last night Mr. Clairville, finding me alone in the drawing-room, embraced the
opportunity
 . i
opportunity to declare his affection for me' in a manner I could not be offended at, as he thought me at liberty to receive addresses from his sex. I returned him thanks for his obliging opinion of me, but entreated him at the same time to desist from thinking of what could never' come to pafs: shat I was satisfied with my present situation, and if Mr, Villars and' his Lady would permit me to remain with them all my life, I should esteem myself
happy to continue unmarried : -- -- and if
I should be so unfortunate as to difpleafe them, I doubted not, from the mercy of Providence, that some other friends would arise. In shorty I told him that I had been witness to so many unhappy marriages, that I had. taken ia final resolution not to enter into that state. He pleaded hard, but I remained inexorable, and insisted upon his never mentioning the fub -- ject to me again. > He grew melancholy, and, feeing Lord Clandon approach, retired.
His Lordship, finding me in h reverie, -, began at first to rally me concerning his • friend. When I feriousiy assured him he was mistaken, he in a rapture fell at my feet, and imprinted several skiffes on my
hand before I could withdraw it — swore.
he
V
56
he adored me — and since I had refused Clairville, it gave him hopes I would listen •to him; “for, surely, my angelic Silena, said he, you dont imagine that charming form, so moulded for adoration, was created only to be viewed, ” “and in virgin gloom your future days be spent“
“are become insolent, my Lord, ” said I, with warmth, endeavouring to snatch my hand from him. “My fcne fadors will not permit me to be insulted,
though only their dependant. -- -- Unhand
me — I will be released.”
As these words were pronouncing. Lord Villars and Mr. Clairville entered. The latter call an angry look at Lord Clandon; the former seemed surprised.
My insolent suitor let go my hand, and arose.
Alarmed lest Lord Villars should imbibe an unworthy opinion of me, and impart it to his uncle, I could not conceal my sensations— — burst into tears.
“Good God! Miss Howard, ” said his Lordship, “what is the matter? — I hope
our entrance did not disturb you.’’
“No, my Lord; it was a pleasing interruption to me. Lord Clandon, vain of his rank, thinks he may insult me with
irnpunity because I am so unfortunate as to
be
HUMANLIFE. 157
be dependant in life : but, alas! — yet let me entreat your pardon, my Lord; such an insignificant creature as I am is not worthy your attention — I will weep alone.’’ -- -- -1 withdrew.
Lord Villars’ accustomary humanity was visible;; seemed willing to detain me, but fearful of offending.
It was only to the next room I retired, where I could hear every word that passed. Lord Villars rebuked his fellow peer for his behaviour, displayed how unworthy his rank it was to insult any young lady, however situated in life, especially when innocence and virtue were her only portion -- -- It was moreover an affront to Mr,
and Mrs. Villars, whose protection I was
under -- -- -- That he hoped never to meet
with the like complaint again, or his uncle must be informed of it, who he was certain would never entertain any man who was impertinent to Miss Howard, a young lady he esteemed much, and who claimed the respect due to her sex from every one.
“’pon my soul, Villars, I do respect her; have I not been paying my adorations.?” said Lord Clandon, endeavouring to pafs it off by raillery.
Clairville also very warmly attacked him; but at last a peace was concluded
and

and his Lordship promised never more to offend.
My spirits were overpowered; I sat weeping near an hour. Reflection convinced me my conduct was' blameable; I had acted in a childish unthinking manner. Why did I not silently retire, instead of urging complaints? My folly might' have drawn Lord Villars and Mr. Clairville, who are two worthy men, intov disagreeable and alarming confeqnences. Oh! Harriot, I was displeased with my felfiand the whole world almost. Thus it is when vexations oppress us. But a fumrnons to dinner roused me from myi reverie, and I endeavoured to recover myself, that I might not appear ridicu -- 10115. >.
Mr. Villars, who is as kindly attentive to me as a parent, observed the alteration of my countenance, and redness of my eyes. He drew the aside, the company not being seated, and asked the occasion of it. In return to his kind inquiries, I alleged a severe headache. He seemed to doubt — looked at his nephew — but said no more. Luckily Miss Shenkin happened not to be present, and I escaped her inquisitiveness. Lord Clandon appeared rather confused. Mr. Clairville looked grave,
sighed
HUMANLIFE. 15^
Sighed much, and was very assiduous in helping me to anything I wanted at table. Lord Villars often beheld me with looks that denoted pity, and behaved with his usual politenels to every one but Lord Clandon, whom he Seemed still displeased? with.
The day being warm, Mrs. Villars. chose to repose after dinner; and there being no ladies, I took a book, and retired to the Temple of Flora.
■it was in vain I attempted to read; the morning’s adventure was too deeply impressed on my memory. I seemed to have behaved like a thoughtless giddy girl,. Why should Lord ciandon’s insolence at that period particularly affect my spirits?? it now occurred to my reflection, that, if I had not informed Lord Villars, but silently retired, he might have imagined I' favoured the addresses of ray libertine lover; therefore my conduct was not so blameable as I had before deemed it. But what measures should I take to prevent further importunities from Lord Clandon and Mr. Clairville. The latter claimed my pity, as his intentions were honourable.. This led me to ruminate on my unhappy fate, in being obliged to conceal my marriage, and to suffer a worthy
m an
/
[6o
man to continue in the error of believing me at liberty to be addrelsed. My misfortunes all recurred to my imagination, and I sat Stupefied with woe.
Lord Villars pasted, and, feeing me in the Temple, entered. It was some moments before I could recollect: myself and arise“
“fear, Miss Howard, said his lord ship, lam an intruder, and stouze you from a reverie, which, perhaps, you would choose to remain in; a retrospect of what has been agreeable is pleasing“
“is so, my Lord, ” returned I, with a sigh“ “a very small share of that has been my lot.”
I am very sorry, Miss Howard, said his Lordship, '' one So young should have reason to say so.”
“I find no realbn to'complain now,, my Lord, ” said I, with a faint smile, ‘‘ Under the protection of Mr. and Mrs, Villars one cannot be unhappy“
“yet under their protection I find Lord Clandon dared insult you. Madam; but let me beg, that, if he should offer further impertinence, you will acquaint ray uncle or myself, and he shall be expelled this house for ever, — but 1 forget
 I F E. ii
my errand, Miss Howard, ’ added he, hesitating and changing colour. — “It is a disagreeable task to meddle in love af fair.s, (smiling)) poor Clairville has informed me of his ill success this morning
-- -- Hers very unhappy, and entreated
me to plead in his behalf. Having urged me so much, I could not forbear taking compassion on him. He is a worthy man, has a handsome fortune, and I think would make a tender affectionate husband Pardon my interfering, amiable Miss Howard, but I sincerely pity him; and, if you have no engagement, what can be your objection
“The motives which guide your lordship’s actions are, I doubt nor, always laudable, ” returned I; “they prompt to the welfare of your friends and mankind in general. As so near a relation to Mr. Villars, you are certainly entitled to interfere, therefore apologies are unnecesstary, my Lord. I am well convinced Mr. Clairville has great merit, and does me honour
by his offer -- -- But, said I, hesitating, I
have taken a final determination never to marry — no offers or allurements can make me break it— — is not a sickle fancy, but a fixed resolution, which no inducement can make me depart from. I sincerely
wish
i62
wish and hope that Mr. Clairville may soon meet with one more worthy his attention, and be > completely happy, for I think him highly deserving” ”
“surprise me exceedingly, said his Lordship, by speaking so favourably of my friend, and yet resusing him; Surely he may hope that time will work wonders, miss Howard, ” added he, with a, Smile.
“Never, my Lord, ” Said I, with firmness“ “never vary my opinion in religion or love, (smiling at the word lovr)
■ — My Sat is fixed.” The last words escaped me unintentionally.
His Lordship, looking at me attentively, and rather moved, Said, with a ligh ‘‘ Poor Clairville then has applied too late, I find.
— Oh! miss Howard !” -- -- -- -- -- --
. The Sound of voices pretty near made him Stop. He hastily quitted the temple, and immediately shet ’squires Davies and Jones, who were coming in Search oshim. They Seemed willing to come Sorwards to the place I was in, but he drew them off another way, I suppose to prevent their Seeing me, that I might escape their indelicate raillery.
Mrs. Villars found herself not well, wherefore I kept her cornpany in her
chamber
4
H U M A N LIFE. i63
chamber the remainder of the day. But, my dear Harriot, it is' high rhyme to close my letter, wdiich is quite a pacquet: besides, the poll is going off; so that I must bid my beloved friend adieu!
Silena Howard.
Lord Villars to Dorrf Duncan Paris.
Elyfum place.
r
EVER tell me, Duncan, of fixing my happiness at once, as I have it in my power to make a speedy declaration. Thou art a sine fellow to give advice, who art unacquainted with the passion which has gained ssich dominion over my soul. Can 1 command reciprocal affection Ah! Charles, Charles, 1 fear thy friend is doomed to Spend the remainder of his days in
misery- -- -- must be spent in wretchedness
without Silena Howard. Her mental qualifications charm me more and more : but I have continued upon my guard tolerably well; I don’t thinlc she yet
suspects
✓
[64
suspects how much I adore her; and, to prevent suspicion, I undertook the severe task of pleading for ray rival Clairville. I confess, Duncan, I knew beforehand she was resolved to refuse him, and I wanted to know her reason. She alleged that her final resolution was never to marry, which determination nothing could remove
-- -- (then I began to tremble for myself))
afterwards, with a sigh Charles, she said, her fate was fixed. I was ready to
shrink with horror -- -- -- Lord N -- -- -- - — st
conversation recurred to my memory; her words coincided with what he said. I sighed, and uttered something as if in pity to my rival, when my own heart was rent. It was then, Duncan, I determined no longer to conceal my sentiments, but declare how greatly I esteemed her. I began, according to the situation of my mind, in the pathetic, with “Oh! miss Howard, ” when at that critical juncture two stupid fellows interrupted me. I ran out of the Temple of Flora, where I was with my charmer, that she might escape their inhuman raillery, for Welshmen in general have very little idea of delicacy; which is not much to be wondered at, as they cloud the Share of understanding allotted them by Providence with inebriety,
which
 I F E. 165
which levels them almoit with brutes. I am surprised that Mr. Brydone, who mentions hospitality and inebriety to be the characteristics of the swiss, the Scotch, and the Irish, should exclude, or rather forget, the Welsh, who have always been so famed for both.
A'**’
By heaven, the charmer of my soul is '
gone out to walk -- -- -- -- -- alone too. I will
pursue her, Duncan -- -- -- -- -- inform her, as if
accidentally, that I saw her at Lord N — ’s; from whence, perhaps, I may gain an insight into her history.
I soon overtook the lovely Silena, and, walking on with her, we dilcuffed Several fiibjects. I longed to come to the point, Charles, but could not settle in what manner I should do it. At last I turned she conversation on the different counties in England, and asked how she liked Yorkshire. She answered, Very well, and blushed. Not seeming to observe her change of countenance, I continued my discourse, saying, when 1 first was introduced to her
here,
«
i66
here, 1 thought ihe was not an entire stranger to me; and it had since occurred to me that I saw her at Laurel grove the day before she quitted it.
Before I quitted it, ” repeated ssie, turning pale as death. “Did Lady
-- -- -- inform you I was there, my
Lord
To tell the truth, Duncan I was almost in as great palpitation as her dear self, but was determined, if possible, to complete the task I had begun, and therefore answered“ “told me of your departure, Madam.”
“You then know, Sir, who I am.” said she, weeping; “and, knowing me, how could you attempt interceding for Mr. Clairville ?”
Though I detested my own artifice, Charles, I could not at that period prevent myself from pursuing it, however unlaudable. In love, you know, allowances are made for these things. But let me proceed with my account, Duncan. Her last speech seemed derived from a nobleness of soul, though it was to me in a manner unintelligible. I supposed it alluded to what Lord N -- -- -- -- -- had informed
me of — an irrevocable engagement she had. “Pardon me, Madam, if I erred, ” was my answer.
She
H u M A N n 1 T n. 107
0^ V Y * t V % •
VY\3^L V ^ ^ i i ^ • A. ml lwixi iil
vain for sometime to assuage her grief. In short, Charles, I was almost as much affected as herself— — tears pierced my very soul. She observed it.
“Your humanity does you honour, ray Lord. Mine are very uncommon misfortunes, ” continued she; then throwing herself at my feet, “but O, my Lord, let me entreat you, by that unbounded compassion which you extend to all objects around you, that you will p/eferve an inviolable secrecy both as to my misfortunes and name” -- -- --
I would not permit her to proceed without rising off the ground — The lovely mourner rent my heart. -- -- forhea
ven’s sake, amiable Mils Avelini, said I, arise” ”
started — paused— — sighing,
uttered, “Cruel Lady N -- -- -- -!”. -- -- --
“What did she say of me, my Lord?” pursued she..
“It was Lord N -- -- -- --, Madam, informed
me jou was gone to London.”
Did he say for what purpose, my
Lord.? — Did he tell you my name and place of birth.?”
“I learned, Madam, that your name was Avelini, and Italy your country.”
Pardon
i58
“rardon tne impertinence or my inquiry, my Lord; was that the extent of yoii’r knowledge ?” said she, blushing.
I found her so very unhappy, Charles, that my dissimulation began to subside— — “was acquainted with nothing further, Madam, ” answered I.
“You are acquainted with too much, my lord, ” said she; “but let me repeat my entreaties that you will conceal having
seen me at Lord N -- -- -- ’s from your uncle
and every one elfe— — your Lordship promise me to be filent ?”
“Receive my most solemn assurances of secrecy as to that point, my worthy Miss Howard, (since that is the name you choose now to retain); and, if you will favour me with a recital of those misfortunes you mention, be assured the secret shall remain confined to my own bosom. If they are of a nature to be remedied, I solemnly declare all the power I am master of shall be exerted to do it.”
“Ah! my lord, ” returned she, I am very well convinced both of yours and Mr. Villars humanity and benevolence.
-- -- i!f my woes could be redressed, I
should long since have applied to your kind uncle for relief — But they are irremediable, and Time only can be my friend, by enabling me to forget them.”
“Since
M U MAN LIFE. 169
“Since I have taken the liberty, ’ said I, “to enter sofar into your concerns, my amiable friend, resolve me one thing feri ouoy; What is your real motive for refusing Mr. Clairville
She blushed, and was Ibme time silent.
“■ My friendship for yon. Madam, ” resumed I, “makes me anxious for your happiness: : assured that question arose not from impertinent curiosity.”
“I must beg your secrecy gain, my lord, ” answered she, “and entreat you will dissuade that gentleman from pursuing his addresses to me. My word is given to another, ” added she, with a
sigli.
“I understand you, Madam, ” said I, almost overpowered by her last words; “it is.from the inability of being at present united with the object of your choice that you are so unhappy. -- -- -- If my interest,
or fortune, can be of any service to your lover, command it, miss Howard; he must be worthy my attention, as he is so closely connected with you.”
“It is not fortune he wants, ” said she, in tears — You must excuse my explaining myself farther, my lord. I return you my most grateful thanks for your vol. I I friendly
1)0 1 H st M U 1 ahl L 1 1 X U h
incijuiy uiicrb -- -- nave uuuiing more
to bestow but prayers for your happiness.” So saying, she begged I would permit her to return to the house alone. The least desire from those we love is a command, d need not tell thee, Duncan, I complied.
Various are my reflections on the pall, seen;; they all end in dooming me to misery. I cannot help concluding her confession to be true, as to her engagement; but then 1 am not pleased at her speaking so favourably of Clairville. She seems, indeed, to entertain a higher opinion of me than I deserve, and owns a friendship for me so void of affectation, that it charms me. But to what purpose is her friendship only? Yet her friendfliip is dearer to me than the love of any other
woman. -- -- -- -^ — How hard is my Sat,
Charles" "
love, and love in vain, oh! dreadful (late,
Her fniiles ftlll adding to the pain I feel j iperhaps ’twere better to endure her hate,
I then might urge her heart more hard than steel Unworthy mine — Her pride, disdain,
Would fet me free, would end my pain :
But friendly kindness aggravates the Smart,
And, like a cruel foe, still deeper wounds the heart.
May
 . 171
May you bave a safe voyage to your native country, Charles, and be happier in love than your friend
Villars.
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.
'* elyfum pjace.
I HAVE undergone great anxiety of mind, my dear Harriot, since I wrote last, and almost betrayed myself from fear of being known. Ah! my amiable friend, how necessary it is to be always on one’s guard.
Walking a few days since with lord Villars, he informed me that he recollected having seen me at Laurel grove the day before I bid adieu to it. You may imagine I was struck with exceeding Surprise and affliction at the news; and, finding
Lord N -- -- had told him F was gone to
London, my unhappiness increased. thinking he knew my whole history. On my knees I besought him to conceal it, but
I 2 had
372
naa not time to nniin my ipeecn, berore he raised me by the name of Avelini, I started, for it then occurred to me how circumstances stood; and I was not deceived. I found, by further conversation, he thought Avelini was my real name, and that I was an Italian, which 1 judged prudent silently to consent to, but continued to entreat he would not mention having
seen me at Lord N -- -- -- -- -- -- ' ’s, which he
good naturedly promised. His humanity was conspicuous as usual — He wept with me, and asked if it was in his power to remedy the misfortunes I complained of. Having thanked him, and answered in the negative, he entreated to know why I resuied Mr. Clairville. To put a period to his lordship’s wonder, 1 answered that I was engaged to another. He then made Sresh offers of completing my happiness with the otject of my affection, if fortune was the essential. I told himdt was not; and by flight, my dear friend, put a period to a dissimulation I could with difficulty retain. It is very mortifying do be obliged to make use of it to so worthy a friend as lord Villars, but my situation requires it. Ah! Harriot, how my days are spent in assiic •tion!
It
\
0
 . 175
It gives me pleasure, however, to find your vivacity is returned. May you long, enjoy peace of mind, my dear friend!
I hear lady Di Horton is just arrived at Shenkin hall. They have been sometime very busy in preparing for her reception. Miss Shenkin has talked of nothing but her ladyship, and told lord Villars he must: infallibly lose his heart, with So charming a creature. If she is worthy of him, 1 shall wish him fuccefs.t., Adieu!
Lady Di Horton to Madame St. Clare,.
shenkin hall.
J V O W, my dear St. Clare, I am not in, the * least surprised that you should be so astonished at my journey to this, hideous part of the globe, among hills, dales, rocks, valleys, goats, ’fquires (who may pafs under the denomination of brutes,) and a jumble of the Lord knows what. I don’t suppose a woman of my fashion ever was in this remote and almost unknown country, except just en passant to Ibme politer
74
litre place in her travels, though I believe this does not lead to any other country. — I canst tell — for I ever abhorred distracting my brains with geography. — But a frolic brought me here, St. Clare, and hopes of subduing one man gave me courage to support the fatigue of travelling over the horrid mountains, and causing a dense cloud to hang over the lean monde by my absence. Winny Shenkin sent me word that dear creature Lord Villars was here. Having seen him once, I ever since doted on him to distraction;; as he was flying from place to place, could never catch him. Now, I was quite in raptures to find that he intended Some stay at his uncle’s, being the most fortunate opportunity imaginable for making him my siave, as my charms must appear in their full lustre a mong a parcel of awkward frights! — ~ —
mere Hottentots 1^ -- foi immediately repaired
hither. The good folks here, too, are so happy at the honour I do them; and Mrs. Shenkin exerts herfplf much at her skill in cookery and confectionary. Last night she honoured us with a new invention, which was introduced inthede fert. In the middle was placed a boy in the 1 action of letting off squibs; another sat below with a small wax taper, which
being
I
/
 . 175
being ligntea atcer nxed on tne table, let the i^uibs reporting. The ’fquires, being in their usual state, drunk, began to take offence at the alarm, till that sweet creature Villars fet them right as to the intention of the thing. Their hideous roars of laughter then absolutely Slunned one, and. the contriver w^<quite happy in the applause she met with.
Such a parcel of ’fcjuires and their wives repair here from forty miles round to compliment me, or rather to see what a, fine lady is, that I am absolutely weary of bending my knees to them; Such figures you never beheld in your days! Oh! they are attired frightful beyond your conception; and sh voracious for news, that I really am obliged to make lies for to get into favour with them: The only tolerable creature I have met with,, beside Shenkin, is a girl. called Miss Howard, who is a heel treader; or companion, to villars’s aunt. Now the girl apparently mull have had a good education, for her behaviour shows it. I could not find out her origin from the men, so applied to Mrs. Villars, who is almosl an idiot. She told me,. ‘‘ the good girl was a Creole by birth, and had been reduced by the loss of a relation > on whom she depended.” lilcely.enough I
176
10 let It rest. She is grave and ieniible» ’ which is proper for one of her present station. But my adorable Villars as yet treats me only with a respect due to my quality, yet I think I can perceive him to sigh a little. W hy should I doubt the effect of my charms, when I have no rival. Clandon is here, but he is not a fit object to flirt with. Then poor Clairville is Sighing aster Howard -- -- -- she’s welcome to the
insipid creature. 1 am going with Winny Shenkin to pay a visit at a Small town,
called -- -- -- -- -- -, Sora few days; when I
return, thou shalt have an account of its inhabitants from
Thine heartily,
Diana Horton’.
y
P. S. Let me hear how yon proceed
with Silvio.
\
Lord
\
H TI M A N L I F E. ihf
)
Lord villaks to Lord Duncajt.
Elylium place.
I A M more unhappy than ever, Charles; the lovely Silena adheres still closer to my.
heart. But lire is lost to me -- never can
be mine — and the idea drives me to distraction.
Lady Di Horton is arrived at shenkin hall, and is spreading her net for me; but her flirting ladyship is mistaken, and. will be exceedingly disappointed. She affects a fondness for my adorable Silena, that she may have, a proper excuse for coming here; but I perceive Miss Howard Seems. not very desirous of her friendship.
Her ladyship vas laughing the other day at the little attention the ladies of this country pay to dress, that very.important article, especially the married worn en, “What do you think of it, Howard V Said she;, “are they not the frightsullest dowdies you ever beheld Such heads! -- -- Oh!! Dieu !'■
I 5 My
THF MITT ABTT.TT V nr?
My sweet girl laughed at lady di’s manner of expressing herself, but made a very just remark in her answer.' She allowed that “lady Di was in the right, for that it was very absurd for women to neglect dress entirely after marriage. They should then be decently in the fashion, she said, as well as when single. If they had ft tidied dress to gain a husband, they should persevere in it to preserve his affection. Men in general, she added, were apt to be sickle, and despise their wives, therefore they ought to endeavour their utmost to avert the evil. That when a man saw other women fet off to advantage, and his wife an awkward antique figure among them, it muss; sensibly wound both his pride and Jove to find her rather an object of contempt. This being repeated, by degrees alienates his affection from her. The ladies, she added, might perhaps urge economy in their excuse; but it made very little difference in expense, ex cept fashion was carried to the height, and that was out of the question. That old ‘ ladies were excepted, as to appear clean and decent, according to their age and station in life, was all to be required of them.”
■ r; ^
Bravo
HUMANLIFE. 179
“Bravo, Miss Howard, ” cried her sprightly ladyship, “I vow you have spoke my very sentiments.”
But now, Duncan, I mull recite to thee.; a discourse I overheard between them, which has made an impression upon me : though whatever the charming Silena says always does so.
They were walking together in a covered walk in the garden at Mr. shen kin’s, when lady Di, being tired, sat down, and desired her companion to do the same. I was not far behind them; but the trees being interwoven, they could not perceive me. Lady Di began wdth, “Howard, don’t you think Villars the most enchanting creature in the world I —
I vow I never beheld so handsome a fellow Speak, Howard, now, don’t you really think him so
“My humble situation, my lady, ” said she, smiling“ “me on my guard, and preserves me from the enchantments of those so much above me.”
“Well, but — phoo! — nonsense !■ -- -- --
you think him handibme, Howard, is what I ask you
“I have seen as handsome” ” she, with a sigh, “but lord Villars has certainly
i ‘
go
tainly altogether a fine noble form — His mental qualifications, too, render him very admirable. — His generosity, benevolence, and humanity, deserve to be more copied in the great world!” (there was applause enough to make me vain, Charles.)
“Well said, Howard; you have made it out somehow; are you heart whole, my dear girl
“Truly so as to lord Villars my Lady.”
“In troth, Howard, I don’t think you would resufe him, was he to offer: could you say nay to his captivating address?” ?”

“Oh! with great ease, my lady’ -- -- -- -- --
You frequently tell me I have singular ideas, therefore I shall not much surprise you when I affirm that I don’t think his Lordship at liberty to address any lady.”
I Started, Duncan, as much as lady Di Horton,
“Lard! Howard, ” said her ladyship, ' “I vow you do surprise me — Why who retains his liberty ?’*
Lady Villars.”
“Ah! but, child, you know they are divorced.’’
!! They
 . ii
** They are separated by human laws; but, according to my opinion, not by divine.” 
“How so?”
“First, my lady, n account of the solemn oath they are bound by at, the altar, when they become man and wife, which expressly says, “as long as they both fljalluvep and, again, “n death doth them part with other sentences your ladyship could not be a Slranger to, when you palled through the ceremony with Mr, Horton. There are many places likewise in Scripture— — New Testament I mean -- -- -- -- which mentions the
unlawsulness of marrying a divorced person; theresore it is in my calendar of crimes, my lady, and I view it in the light of adultery.”
“Ha! ha! ha! Why, Howard, thou art So given to the gospel, it is a great misfortune to the world thou wert not of the other Sex — What an excellent preacher thou wouldst; have made 1”
“I knew your ladyship’s mirth would be excited by my declaration, but it is actually my faith, ” Said she, with lirm ness.
“Oh! I believe you, Howard, without that Serious face, for I verily think
you
82
you are a good Christian;; you must allow me to confess my faith fashionable, and that I should not make the least scruple of marrying his lordship”
“Certainly, my lady; I don’t pretend to bias other people’s opinions.”
The subject then dropped, Charles, and I proceeded on my walk. I have debated since that in my own mind what my charming Silena alleged against my my marrying, and own to thee I almost think her right. Oh I I repeat to thee again, Duncan, I adore her more than ever, and am wretched. Adieu!
Yours, c.
Villars,
t
N
\
0
%
Lai]
HUMANLIFE. i8j
Lady siv. Horton to Madams St. Clare.
Shenkin hath
B id I promise thee, St. Clare? — Yes, I did! Well, I vow, I can’t tell how to begin a description of these people, except I can recollect their uncommonly simple conversation. Imagine them, like all inhabitants of country towns, fond of cards
and scandal- -- -- -- -- -- that will not do.
____ well, to please thee, who lovdl novelty, and mortify myself by a recital here it comes.
To begin, then; these creatures are like a parcel of frightful owls, under the denomination of old maids and widows: I don’t make oath, though, they are in titled to the former appellation. We were received by Mrs. Cadwallader with a hearty welcome; for, to do the infensi bles of this country justice, hospitality is one of their greatest virtues, St. Clare.
“Got plefs me! Miss Shenkin come at last! — Inteed, I thought you had quite forsaken us. Well — and how does Mr.
Shenkin and Mrs. Shenkin, and Mrs.
Notable
V
8a
Notable, your housekeeper ■ — my word” -- -- --
“This is Lady Di Horton, Mrs. Cadwallader.”
I
“Oh! Got plefs me, I am very proud to see your Ladyship — Pray be seated— — shall I offer to your ladyship after your journey
The good woman then made offers of everything her house afforded, fill I was weary of answering her. At lass:, however, we surmounted it, and sat down.
“Your mamma has a very valuable servant, inteed, in Mrs. Notable; though, to be sure, she is so good a manager herself, that she does not Trand in need of her. Mrs. Jones us going to pait with her servants, and Mrs. Williams with her cook and house maid : then Mr. Davies, again, is going to make a thorough
change -- -- Got plefs me! they have a
deal of trouble -- -- 1 pity them. Oh la!
I thought I had Some news to tell you — • Well I What do you think. Mils Shenkin? — * What for Miss Davis, of -- -- -- -
who is going to be married to Mr Jones,
of -- -- -- -- dee, with his three children —
Got
♦ A peculiar method of talking among gossips ia Wales.
t
✓
4
HUMANLIFE. 185
Got plefs me! how can the girl be so foolish as to think of him? — But they say
it will certainly be so' -- -- -- Then Mr.
Powel, of -- -- --, rode very hard through
here yesterday with his servant— — thought his uncle is dying, or he is going to offer himself to miss Taffy -- To
be Sure it Wouldbe a good match -- -- -- --
They Say for certain one of these things must be the consequence of his travelling in Such haste — You know he must have Some reason, and that’s very likely -- It must be So 1”
Art thou not Surprised at my patience, St. Clare f I listened thus Sar, and burst out a laughing at her definition of Mr.
bowel’s ride -- -- these people presently
prove there is no effect; without a cause — • But, Smoothing my features, I apologised for my risibility.
The following day company came to tea, before the time rational creatures breakfast in London. I had fet myself off a little, and they gazed, poor wretches, till they almost lost their eyesight. The antiquities fet themselves down to cards with great earnestness; but the younger sort seemed more willing to contemplate my dress;; ventured to question me on fashions. The old ones, being fettled at cards, began with news;
Oh I
85
(Jh! dear Mss. Lewis, was not vou shocked to hear of the accident Mrs. Taffy met with.?”
“Oh! Lord, what.? — Pray tell me, for I have not heard it.”
“Got plefs me, you have not! Why you know, poor woman she is apt to take a little too much — you understand me — •
and so she tumbled downstairs, and broke her arm.”
“Poor woman! Well, I hope it will
make her refrain for the future. clubs
is trumps.”
Then says another, ‘‘ Who are you
talking of, ladies?”
“Mrs. Tasty, ” answered they.
“Oh! I affure you, ladies, there is not a word of truth in ip; for ray husband had a letter from Mrs. Taffy just now on business— — is in perfect health.”
“Well, I declare it’s a shocking thing people will invent such lies I Mrs. — —
told me Mr. -- -- told her, who had it
from Mr. -- -- -- -- -; he had it from Miss-
-- --, she had it from Mr. O -- -- -- *,
who had it from Mrs. E -- -- -- .”
I believe she would have gone on till now, if they had not all exclaimed, “Oh! shocking lies! — scandalous inteed, whoever invented it !” >
“Well
V
HUMANLIFE. i
wen, ladies, laid another, with an air of authority, what do you think of Miss Morgan, who is with child by her father’s groom.”
“Ah! so they say. Abandoned crea: ure! to put up with so low a fellow! I pity the poor father and mother much.”
“You may suspend your compassion, adies, ” said Miss Shenkin; “for, ’pon honour, I can assure you it is a very great iilsity, and the propagators of such fcan lal ought to be severely punished.”
“Very true, Miss Shenkin, ” said an )ld parson in company; “people too fel lom consider the evil consequence of flan ler, and I muss make a very rough com iliment, which is; you ladies in general ire too apt to indulge yourselves in if, ^olir inclinations are prone that way, at east in this country; I can’t pretend to peak of others, as I have not fcieen much ' )Ut of my native place. What does your ' adyship think
“Oh! I vow, Doctor, I join fenti nents with you as to the ill consequence if flander in general. A man’s honour, r a woman’s reputation, is never Safe Leith the devotees of the goddess detrac ion, and what is a man without honour,
T a woman without reputation? that is,
in,
I
9
88
'\
in report; the victims of her wrath are in reality, perhaps possessed of both, though obscured bv malice. The mur derers of reputtition generally prove the most guilty.”
My speech, St Clare, effablished my reputation of wit with the old Doctor, and he was my humble servant for the whole evening. However, our'refledtions did not prevent their continuing such anecdotes the residue of that visit; which, ’pon honour, St. Clare, did not surprise me, as I found it was the only conversation they were capable of joining in; they had no idea of any other. At last, a letter vas produced from a young lady, that is to say, a maiden lady upwards of forty. She was allowed by them all to have a great fund of sense, which she exemplified in writing. That thou may’ll: be a judge whether she is or not, I made Shenkin get me a copy : it runs as follows, St. Clare :
“so Mrs, ap rice;
My dear Mrs: Ap rice,
According to your desire I write, but inteed I have very little news to tell.
I got
HUMANLIFE. 189
1 got to ivihtard m very goot time; wno should I meet but Sally Davies behind Jack Thomas, and Pritchard attending them. They had passed me, as it was dark, before I minded who they were; however, I thought it should not go off so, therefore I called to Pritchard, and asked where they were going; he Said they talked of going to Bristol, but were to stop
that night at Mr. Davies, of -- -- -- -- -- •
Now I can’t imaggine what they are going to Bristol for. It is very odd of Mils Sally to travel so with Mr. Jack Thomas, and only a man fervant with her; I wish something mayn’t come of it: but we shall
see -- -- (you find, St. Clare, fjoe confoks herself
with hopes of mischief.) — Then what
for Mrs. Morgan, of -- -- -- -- --; they say
for certain Capt. Powel was seen one evening coming out of her bedchamber. Poor miss Jenny Jones, who is going to be
married to -- -- --, is to be pitied; I hope
she won’t have him. Then poor Mrs.
Davies, of -- -- -- --, is very bad, from a
fright: one of the maids Sweethearts, in the night, by mistake, came to her bed : he soon ran away when he found his mistake;; poor Mrs. Davies fell in violent fits. T wo of Mr. ap tudor’s maids are with child, they say, by him. Lord,
what
[00
what doings! but the world mull be pep pled. Our cows are sick too : Davy says that Rice knows very well they are bewitched by the old woman of the mountain. Now I can’t tell what to think osit< but my mother says it may be true, for old Jane has a strange muttering way, and she recollects there was a great storm the night the hanimels were taken bad. She thought something unlucky would happen., as she spilled some fair, and broke a glass, that night too. Dear heart! I am very sorry I have so little news, but you must take the will for the deed, my dear Mrs. Ap rice, and Ibi remain
Your affectionate humble fervann
'7
“Alice Powel.”
Some passages in this mighty wise epistle were contradicted; however, the obligation they were under to the writer for news was the same. 1 suppose, St. Clare, thou art laughing at the fellow’s mistake
ingoing to the mistrefs’s bed -- -- -- Haha
I ha! ’pon honour, it was droll. But thou must know, among the commonality,
this
 . loi
1 ^
%
this is the land or liberty tor love. The country girls and servants all receive adorations in bed at night, therefore it is no wonder an alteration of shape is so frequently the cafe, I suppose those in a higher Sphere do the same, but conceal it better. Many of them who are prudes in public, and reflect; so bitterly on female errors, I doubt not, act per contra in private : I always suspect a prude, St, Clare; they judge from their own hearts of others conduct.
Poor Howard was most; severely bandied by these old harridans : some said she was a cast-off mistress; others that she was a tripe man’s daughter, and had been seen at her father’s shop at Wapping; with numerous other ridiculous fupposi tions.
But I am most heartily weary of this preamble, and not in excellent spirits Villars is not so coming as I wish; but I will leave no means unemployed to gain his heart. Adieu! St. Clare.
Thine assuredly,
Diana Horton
A
Miss
%

4
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.
Elyfum place.
)
J y A D Y Di Horton affects the hon tonne much. She docs me the honour to give me much of her company, my dear Harriot; but I can with ease perceive her friendship for me proceeds from her design on lord villars’s heart. Mr. Villars rallies him on the conquest:, while I take the liberty gently to chide my benefactor for endeavouring to make his nephew vain.
Lady Di, in her lively manner, fetsthis country in a strange light. She passed a few days with her friend Miss Shenkin at a small town not far from hence, called -- -- -- -: the ladies of that place underwent her feverest satire; tho’ Mr, Villars allows there is great room for ir. I endeavoured to vindicate them, by alledgjng that those her ladyship had Seen perhaps were always confined to their own country,
 . 195
try, and and so had no opportunity of improving their manners or enlarging their ideas of things, which extended no further than to copy what they saw or heard.
Her lively ladyship laughed exceedingly at my compassion for the poor wretches, as she termed them, and granted their ideas were very limited indeed, wholly dedicated to scandal; which occasioned many to attend prayers for the sake at the same time of hearing anecdotes of their neighbours.
It vv^as to no purpose to contend wdth her ladyship. The people that are inhabitants of that place, it seems, are famed for the above vice, and pafs judgement on the reputation of every person in the country : but here are numbers of very amiable ladies who have never quitted the principality. Now, indeed, most young ladies are sent to England for education; though I think it is very unnecessary, if they are to pafs their lives in Wales, as it gives them rather adislafte to their own country.
I am glad to hear your cousin is arrived in England, and hope he will not long be the means of detaining you from your friends at London, my dear Harriot, as
vol. I. K you
rp4
you wnii lo oe mere, i rrequentiy near fromfny kind friend Mrs. Gordon, whom I shall ever gratefully preserve in my memory, She has returned me your letters.
-- -- Ah! Harriot, the Marquis — but you
‘have heard it, perhaps -- -- is at London
with Violetta, who has usurped my title and — The Subject is too affecting; I must drop it.
Finding my Spirits much depressed, my 'dear friend, I took a walk to Shenkin hall: Mr. Villars and his nephew attended me. There 1 was in hopes of having them raised by lady Di; but, alas! she unknowingly added to my pain. By way of diverting lord Villars, she read aloud some sentences of a letter she had just received from an intimate friend: one was that my perfidious Melville and his lady had been introduced at Court. Think what a trial the hearing such news, with their remarks on it, was to my afflicted heart. Lord Villars said“ “was something very singular in the marquis’s affair with Miss Belmont; it was Surprising a young lady cfher birth, fine accom plishments, and apparent modesty, should
act
/
HUMANLIFE. 195
act so. -- -- He had heard her very favourably reported of -- -- -- Many thought her
innocent as to the affair of Count St. Lou -- -- -- It was very surprising altogether -- -- There seemed a mystery in it certainly.” -^ ■
Lady Di astured him “Miss Belmont was guilty; that she had it from good authority; but tsiat she stncerely pitied her, on account of her family; they had acted very cruel in surrendering her up to poverty and infamy. -- -- Now, indeed, nobody
knew where she was, but imagined ' at France, as Count de St. Lou was gone there after her, ”
Little did any of them imagine the unhappy object was before them. My palpitation was so great I could scarce conceal it, and was ready to saint; but, having a hat on, and fortunately being by a window, which I leaned out of, I escaped their notice.
Lady Di and Miss Shenkin returned with us to dinner. As we were sitting down to table, a cold sweat seized me, with a faintness, which obliged me to retire to the next room. Lord Villars, finding I stopped there, came to me : I waved rny hand for him to return, and take no notice, but he exclaimed, “Good God! my dear,
K 2 my
96
my lovely Mils Howard, what is the matter?” applying some drops as he spoke-
-- -- - “are very ill -- -- let me call for
help.”
.1 grew better in a Sew minutes, and desired him to return, telling him I would Soon Sollow; but I could not persuade him to leave me, theresore returned to the room with him. He informed them he had Sound me not well. Mr. Villars kindly excused my Sitting at table, and his lordship handed me Some hartshorn jelly from the desert. They luckily attributed my illness to walking So much, the day being warm.
Lady Di rather Spitefully rallied me on his lordship’s Singular attention and anxi -- ety. I answered her Ladyship serioiioy, that she was unacquainted with his humanity, whence alone it proceeded.
Lord Villars offering to attend them home in the coach, lady Di Said peevishly.
No, no, we won’t deprive your Lorsh ship of your new employment, for Howard will want her nurse.”
Instead ot renewing his offer he gave her a look of contempt, and Suffered his uncle to hand her to the carriage.
After
 . 197
After she was gone, he seemed in a reverie, out of which I drew him by saying, lady Di gave her wit full scope, without meaning to offend; that, for my part I forgave her, and hoped he would do the same.
“Ah! Miss Howard, ” returned he,, “your heavenly disposition is well known to me : I can easily forgive her as to myself, but I can’t bear she should treat you with insolence;; always Suffer more for my friends than rny Self.”
Mr. Villars entered Smiling. “Welli nephew, can you bear existence under the dilpleasure of lady Di? miss Howard, I shall be very angry with you, in turn, if you derogate from the opinion I have held of you, and endeavour, to inveigle lord Villars.”
“Ah! be ashired, my worthy, kind benefactor, ” returned I, “that I would' sooner die than be guilty of such treachery, had I beauty to encourage me to attempt it. I hope you have a better opinion of me.”
“You don’t vindlcate^yourfelf, Harry said he in raillery.
“There is no occasion, my dear uncle. I am certain you will never alter your opinion of Miss Howard, or myself, from
any
/
p8
anything her Ladyship may insinuate, or. I would quit the place immediately, sooner than So worthy an object should be deprived of your protection.”
Mr. Villars, with tears of pleasure in his eyes, said“ “am not sorry, my dear Villars, lady Di has displayed her Solly, since she has been the means of your uttering such sentiments;; I am sure Silena forgives her.”
To continue in the friendship of those we esteem is very pleasing. I forgot my affliction, and Soon recovered.
The night is far advanced, and Cynthia with her pallid rays has silvered o’er the ocean. How beautisul does the distant Scene appear! The silence that reigns creates a Solemnity in the imagination. A star darting from its orbit reminds one of immortality, when the spark divine which animates us shoots from a weight of oppression to peace, tranquillity, and joy. But, adieu! tired Nature requires repose; it is in vain to contend against it: life cannot be continued without refreshment by steep, and how like grovelling insects are most of our lives spent.
Silena Howard.
I
Lady
 . 159
Lady Di Horton to Madame St. Clare: -
I
Ely fium place..
Onfufion seize her! May the smallpox make her horrible to view, and her temper more sour than a neglected old maid! May all the plagues that can befall woman attend her, till she awaken my pity, and that will not be while I ejtift! Shall such a stupid, inanimate thing as Howard rival lady Di Horton I Oh! let it not be said, St. Clare; the idea drives me to distraction — A wretch unworthy notice, that I extended the favour of my Seeming friendship to; and truly, because she was Singled out by a woman of fashion, she must take it into her head to attempt being a fine lady — could not possibly undergo a short walk without immense fatigue
-- -- must be fainting, in order to have
Villars press her hand, - and sigli over her. Oh, revenge! revenge 1 come with thy dire train, and gratify my vengeance on her! Assist me, dear St. Clare, for passion
overclouds
i
30
/
overcloi(ds my genius. So sudden and unexpected a discovery of Villars’ passion for Howard made it difficult for me to rein in the tempest of my Soul, and I Said Some things, St, Clare, I now wish unsaid : but dissimulation and art shall be my guides for the future; my words shall be as oil or honey, while I prepare a storm shall overwhelm her. As for that angel Villars,, whom I detest myself for still adoring, I must endeavour to get into his favour again, which will I suppose take time to accomplish, for I put the dear creature out of humour with me by calling him howard’s nurse. To be Sure, he deserved it. But, adieu! St. Clare, I must not waste my time in writing, but in meditating mischief on the devoted Silena. Assist, with thy advice, thy faithful friend
t
Diana Howard.
P
. /
Mss
%
LIFE. 201
Miss Meynel to Miss Howard.
dublie
A 4
Fortunate planet presides over me at' thisjuncture : Silena, pray Heaven it may continue its influence till I arrive safe at; London. Yes, my dear girl, joy to my soul! I am recalled from banislimenf, thanks to the lickly Slate of poor cousin’s heart. It seems he has fallen in love with some Donna or Signora abroad, therefore lord and lady Lorton judge that my weaker charms may make their appearance, and prattle Sometimes rouse him from his sighing reveries; for their darling, according to the intelligence we have received, sighs bitterly — walks with his arms folded in each other — shakes his head at feeling a void where there should be a heart — and is guilty of all the diftradions which unhappy lovers sail into. Now I am from my very soul sorry for him and them : you. know I have not a flinty heart; but I am sure I shall laugh at his dumb show. J am
K 5 quite
THF mutability OF
quite charmed with your friend Villars; if he had not offered. to settle you with two other lovers, I should have nominated him a little bit more than friend; for there are few men if any, Silena, that are fond of your Platonic fchetties. don’t be 0ngry • to peak as I think is my motto.
______tho’ I am partial to lively beings, I
have not patience with lady Di, because she is of a malevolent cast. Cheerfulness and innocence ever should be joined, says your most affectionate
/
Harriot Meynell.
1
V
/
Lord
\
 . 20s
¥.
4
Villars to lord'du'iitckit.
0
'Elyjium place]
I AM amazed at my own stupidity,
Charles, in having been so long exploring what might easily haie occurred long since, and what all circumstances combine together to prove pall a doubt, which is, that the lovely Howard is in reality the unfortunate Marchioness of Melville. re pe
ruse some of ray former letters -- -- -- observe
her fear of being known, and her owning an irrevocable engagement; to which add my having jusl now learned that Miss Belmont is niece to Lady N -- -- -- -- -- -- --, (which
particulars correspond well with Such a Supposition,) and I think you will coincide with me in a firm pershafion of it. Lovely, angelic creature! Uncommon misfortunes, indeed, she has experienced; no wonder she lamented her fate so bitterly at Laurel grove, when just become a victim to such a plot of villainy. It is to me amazing that she has brought her mind to
such
/

f
►A
such composure as it appears at present to enjoy. What fortitude she must be mif trefsof to fink so calmly into a dependent State, and what barbarians must her relations be to Suffer it! Where is the reason in Supposing her guilty Would an object So lovely, insthe bloom of life, withdraw herself from admiration, and the man she was thought to intrigue with, if she was not innocent, Duncan Oh! no, it is against all conclusions to imagine it. But, as file appeared so very unhappy when she thought 1 knew her, I will still appear ignorant, to save her pain, and tell no one but thee, Charles, of it. Oh! that I had power to restore the reputation and honour of her my soul adores! With what rapture would I fly to the extremity of the universe to complete it! What a consummate villain must Melville be to take advantage of a private marriage, and use with cruelty so charming a creature 1 Oh! Charles, I cannot tell thee how my heart bleeds for her! how great my distress is, at finding she can never be mine! and how unresolved and unwilling I am to leave this
place! — I cannot quit it’ -- What, forego
all opportunities of gazing at her lovely form, and listening to her heavenly voice! — — But, oh 1 my Duncan, I must leave
her —
 ,
her — it is criminal to stay adoring her as I do — another’s wife! Love shall not overpower my principles of honour, which you swear I carry to a romantic height. I must: depart — If there is a chance of conquering, absence must effect it; for while I gaze, still deeper finks the dart. However, you may write to me again before I leave Elysium place, and administer balm, if you can, Duncan, to the afflicted mincl of your friend
Villars
/
%
S. It would be to no purpose to impart
my discovery to my uncle, as she would accept of nothing. i’m sure, independent
of her attending Mrs. Villars.
m
t
%
/
t
ms
36
I \
/
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.'
Ik
ely(ium~place.
I ' ■..
HAVE been waiting two pods, my dearest: Harriot, in hopes of hearing you were safe arrived in Berkeley square, and flatter myself that before I conclude this epistle I shall not meet with a third disappointment. Your safety, my dearest friend, is now nearest my heart: a continuance of happiness and that vivacity which is interwoven in your disposition, and is admirable because it is joined with the best of hearts, is my constant wish.
Lady Di is so very condescending and humble to Lord Villars and myself since the behaviour I mentioned, that I know not what to make of it. His lordship is very much altered too, and I think Seems in the Same situation you describe your cousin, though he conceals it before Mr. Villars, but when alone with me he Scarce Speaks, He writes often, and has received many letters lately. Indeed I should pity him much, is I knew he was
unsuccessful
HUMANLIFE. fio r
unsuccessful in love, as I think him deserving of happiness— — wish he would confide in me, for speaking of the object of his affection might alleviate the pangs of absence a little.
At last, my dear friend, a letter frorri you is arrived, which has, as you judged, surprised me much. It has afforded me both pleasure and pain to find your cousin is the person who has left a tender impression on your heart ever since the masquerade— — to hear there is a mutual affection, and pain ^ I fear you have both much anxiety and trouble to undergo before you can arrive at the completion of your wishes. It is said women in general believe in fate, especially. with respect to marriage; those who are pre deftinarians would not scruple to assert that a match will certainly take place between you and your cousin; for though Lord and Lady Lorton had been very careful to divide you, yet a frolic brought your cousin in secret with a friend to Dublin, where in disgnise he became a captive
to your charms -- -- -- afterwards blinded
his parents by a feigned passion, by which
means
o8 THE mutarrr.itv np
means you was brought to his defirlng eyes again. Upon my word, Harriot, it
forms a pretty story -- -- -- 1 must rally you
a little -- -- yet I shall still be in pain for
you. If you both act not with great discretion, you must infallibly be separated-
-- -- prudent and wife, my dearest
friend.
Lady Di and Mrs. Villars have been exhausting their mirth on me; however, I had the gentlemen on my fide. You must know they caught me reading the Lessons for the day. Her ladyship asking me what I was poring over that old book for, I .aniwefed^it was my constant cusi
tom. -- -- -- She laughed immoderately. -- -- -- -- -
They forced me downstairs with them, and Lady Di related my folly, as she termed it, to the gentlemen. I said, with a serious accent, that I never should be ashamed of doing what I ought, for I thought it a duty incumbent on every one, if they did not attend daily prayers at church : even then we were too forgetful of what Scripture contained; for if we would but guide ourselves by the inestimable rules therein laid before us, we should not have so many follies to answer for.
“Lard! child, what nonsense!” exclaimed her ladyship.
“If
 . 209
“If it is nonsense, my lady, weakness. is more pardonable than vice, and you are welcome to condemn me for my folly.”
Lord Villars and his uncle agreed my arguments were just.
Mrs. Villars said, “To be sure, as Howard says, you know there is no harm in it — Is there, Mr. Villars .?Ha 1 ha!' ha! ”
Lady Di, finding herself not supported in her ill timed mirth, though she did not seem satisfied, desisted from further raillery.
Ah! my dear Harriot, it is for want of a more frequent perusal of Floly Writ that our modern sine ladies so often err. They allege, when they are willing to excuse their neglect, that time is wanting. They should blush still more at that excuse, when so much of their time is dedicated to pleasure and folly, and they will not allow one half hour to reflect on a future state, and improve those morals which Pleasure so vitiates. Devoted to that alluring goddess, their eager pursuit of her increases, till unhappily plunged into vices, at first little thought of, all morality quits them, and they avoid reflection, and are lost.
My
#
\
lo
My ever dear parents (hail to their revered memory!) early taught me the custom I still observe, and a confidence in God; whereby I have been enabled to undergo, with I hope tolerable resignation, the misfortunes which have befallen me : and the comfort I have frequently experiehced from passages of Scripture convinced me of the utility and profitable nefs of my practice.
Reading and music divide most of our time, especially on evenings when free from company. Lord Villars says he shall leave this place with regret, as he never spent his time Ib much to his satisfaction; which lean perceive affords Mr, Villars no small pleashre.
Inform me of your procedures, my dear Harriot.
Yours affectionately,
sil'ena> Howard.
t.
Lord.
HUMANLIFE. zit
/
Lord Villars to Lord Duncan.
Elyfium place.
V
J. OUR history surprised me much, Charles: by the account you give of your cousin, she is worthy of your regard. May you both enjoy many years of happiness together! for I make no doubt of lord and lady lorton’s bestowing felicity on their only fon; they never will deny him the woman of his choice, especially so near a relation. You are too timid, Duncan, and let your fears counterbalance all probability. Oh! that the adorable
Silena was so near my hopes! -- -- -- But I,
alas, am cut off for ever!
My uncle insists upon my making longer stay. I have consented, Charles. It is with readiness we comply with what coincides with our wishes., But I must inform thee of a short conversation that I have just had with the charmer of my soul.
It happened, that I was sitting alone, sh absorbed in my own melancholy ideas that
I con.
.
t2
I continued filent sometime, and perhaps I might give vent to sighs unknown to myself, She awaked me from this fitisation by her ever enchanting voice: “Mr. Villars informs me, ” said she gracefully, “it was with difficulty he persuaded your Lordship to prolong your Stay here; 1 am sure if he thought compliance to his wishes afforded you pain, he would be Sar from desiring ir. Your thoughifulness of late makes me think your inclination is else wshere : excuse the liberty I take with your Lordship; but, indeed, is you place confidence in Mr. Villars, it would alleviate that uneasiness of mind which Seems to have taken possession of you.”
“It would only afford him a participation of my anxiety, ” answered I, “without his being able to alleviate it in the least, my dear Miss Howard; for which reason I choose to remain silent.”
Your Lordship is the best judge, ” skid she, modestly showing her head; “I Sincerely wish you happiness“
“Miss Howard! -- -- -- -1 wisli it
was in your power to bestow it -- -- -- But
you cannot -- -- -- and, spite of your indulgence,
I must be wretched, ” said I, with a sigh.
“Wretched I”
1 —
 . 213
“Wretched I” returned she, growing pale.
“Yes, Miss Howard, wretched! -- -- Can you think -- -- -- But I must be filent.”
“My Lord, ” exclaimed she, with a look of the greatest consternation, pity, and, I may almosl Say, tendernesk Oh! Duncan, perhaps vanity may be now too predominant, but I think — yes, I am certain — she does not hate me.
We both remained filent. My eyes Spoke sentiments which my heart condemned them for, without being able to repel them. In this critical juncture Mrs. Villars entered, and I retired to write to thee.
If I should find reason to flatter myself, that miss Howard would return my love, were it not for the principles by which she is actuated, it would only add to my pain : on the other hand, was she a person of looser Sentiments, my regard for her would cease; Since, though her beauty attracts my admiration, it is her virtue rivets my affection.
I know not how to depart from this place, nor how to Slay in it, torn as I am by contending passions. Ten thousand platonic Schemes arise, which reason discountenances,
0
14
countenances. She is another’s wife I —
Ah! there lies the horrid reflection. -- -1
must fly -- -- it is only by flight I can preserve
propriety, and avoid betraying how very dear She is to me. My will is to act as a man of honour, but — Oh! Charles, I am bewildered.
Clandon and Clairville, who have been absent on a visit Some, time, are just returned. Poor Clairville! how I pity him! His disappointment visibly hurts him.
A certain work ^ I have been lately perusing, exalts instinct above reason;; notion, commonly adopted, would soon indeed level us with brutee. The author says it should be “the immediately impelling principle of action.” Now, it is certain, by obeying this impelling principle, and discarding reason, many enormous crimes have been committed; which is a strong proof that instinct should not be our guide but when accompanied by reason.
Was I to Sollow the impulse of instinct, I should immediately sty to the arms of
my
* A Comparitste View of the State and Faculties of Man with those of the Brute Creation, By
Dr. -- -- -- -- -
1
 . 215
my adorable Silena; but reason checks that impulse, and tells me I should err. Oh! Duncan, a month since you experienced the torments of a hopeless passion, therefore know how to pity the unfortunate
\
VI L L a rs.
/
Lady Di hortom to Madame St. Clare,
Shenkin Hall.
W HEN last I wrote, St. Clare, my
bosom was similar to the tremendous ocean, whose foaming billows when enraged would fain dash against the atmoff phere. I imprecated everything around ^
me -- -- -- upbraided Heaven itself— — to
conceal my tempest from observing eyes, was tortured past description. For some days I plotted, contrived, resolved, and unresolved, unnumbered plans. My intention was to make Clandon a copartner, but he was absent then. At last I soothed
Silena
1(5
Silena and that charming fellow Villars admirably, Joy to my heart, St. Clare, I now have no need of forcing him to love
me — The business is done -- -- -- -- -- He comes
here frequently wuthoutsthe family, and
yesterday called me his dear Lady Di -- -- -- -
Oh! how my heart rebounded, and joy sparkled in my eyes! I have attentively viewed his behaviour to Howard; he speaks to her as usual, but I really believe, St Clare, what the girl said was true, “Compassion only excited his attention to her” the day I was distracted with jealousy. She is a poor, unmeaning, enthusiastic creature; how could I ever fear her!
I now give a loose to my mirth on the folly and stupidity of the objects around., Mrs. Shenkin is the premier. Yesterday she introduced me to a cousin of the seventh generation, There were another two whose great great grandfathers were sirst coufins. Poor woman! her standard for aman of lense is, that he understands genealogy better than any man in the country.
AM Then a Mrs. Fliiellen (a neighbour, who iis reckoned an artful woman in the line of intelligence) comes in, St. Clare, shrugging her shoulders as if she had virtues to
reform
 . z17
rerorm the age, and in a solemn tone, anci with an artful leer of her eyes (which upon these occasions she turns to the very corners,) cries, Well! I have been at
Mrs. A — -- -- -- ’s, and having heard, you '
know, about her niece, I hinted at the imprudence of the young women of these days — what a thing it was they turned so gay, and so forth. At last she said her
niece was well at Mr. W -- -- -- ’s, and sh
was surprised people took liberties by mentioning her name in a way they should not: upon which, you know, (shrugging up her shoulders) I said, Ah! the world would
often blaze false reports. -- You know it
was no business of mine, since she said nothing. -- -- -1 wonder she can think people
are Slupid and blind — But I never say anything when folks are so shy. Lord plefs me! (lifting up her eyes) how can people actfo imprudent!”
Now, you must know, St. Clare, this bit of scandal was all a falsity. these old devils, who have been intriguing in their younger days, with their hypocritical fandtisication, won’t let the real virtuous a lone, or maintain the character they merit; which I vow, St. Clare, is a great liardsliip.
vol. I. L ‘, She
i8
She was talking of the frailty of a young couple the other day, when to provoke her, I asked, If envying their joys made sher publish them though perhaps she had bellowed intimacies the parties themselves ■were unacquainted with.
She coloured. “Indeed, my Lady, (drawing up her head) I repeat only what 1 am told.”
Howard was present“ “but, Mrs. Fluellen, we should not always believe What we are told, if it is to the prejudice of the party, ” said Mrs. Piety.
Ah 1 Miss, young people are apt to be incredulous, because they are unacquainted with the wickedness of the world : when you have lived longer, and are older, you will know better.”
“■ I hope not, ” returned Piety; I should be sorry to increase in gloom and dislike to my fellow-creatures : if we have an ill opinion of the world in general, we never can be tolerably easy while in it. I would never have a woman accused of a deviation from virtue, till there are very convincing proofs of it; a blalled character is hard to be retrieved.”
“Aye, Miss, but you are young — you will know better. — Aye, aye, ” returned Wisdom again.
In
 I F E. ais
t
In the midst of this edifying confab, enters a ’fquire or two half drunk; “Zounds! you women are always talking scandal; can’t you let the poor girls alohe to follow inftinfl f * Nature points it out to them -- D— — it, Till lay a bottle
of claret, three parts out of four you have been Saying are abominable lies.
-- -- My head aches confoundedly — How
many quarts of ale do you think I drank
last night • eight, faith -- -- But Dick
was drunk in a trice. — ^i’m d — n’d dry — • do order me some negus, my dear Mrs. Shenkin.”
“Lord!” said Mrs. Fluellen, what an unquenchable thirsl you men have f
-- -- Ough! -- -- -- Fie upon you! -- -- -- But
for women to drink, Oh! it is abominable. There is Miss O -- -- -- -- drinks four
glasses of Wine Sometimes after supper— —! shocking!” (shrugging up her shoulders.)
“Dear Mrs. Fluellen, don’t fet me
down for a beallly creature -- but, ’pon
honour, I can drink five when I am a la mort, and go free from elevation to bed, ’' said I.
h 2 Lord!
I
* The brutal part of mankind adopt Dr. principle.
i
lo
“Lord! Lady Di, Your Ladyship
jokes.”
“Zounds! what a pother you make !” said the’fquire; “why, 'Mrs. Fluellen, ni lay odds in your favour, for i’ll be — • if I don’t think you a hypocrite.”
I don’t know, ” said she, colouring, “what should give you such an opinion of
me. Cot plefs me! — drink! — -- -- -- -- -- -- --
O -- -- -- -- -- -- lithe
oh! she gave was a!moil: an hour long, St. Clare; and the gentlemen gave ssuch hideous yells of laughter, that 1 was absolutely obliged to Hop my ears.
“Got plefs me I” (an expression much in use in this country) said Mrs, Shenkin, “you wrong Mrs. Fluellen, for I never can get her to drink one glass', she is so ab ilemous.”
“Ah! Cot forbid I should be otherwise— — no; its a sign he does not knew me.”
“Well, .zounds [ to make it up, old genius, Fil tell thee news: One of my bell hounds died this morning; and another thing is, Mrs Toby is at last going to be married to the old parlbn.”
“Well, really you surprise me !”
“Nay, don’t mourn for poor Rover, we shall all follow.’’
. J, •
 . 221
“Aye, aye, but Mrs. Toby going to be married — Got plefs me!”
“Nay, wonders will never cease” ”
he, “for -- -- what was it I vas going to
say -- -- Oh — ay — humph !”
“Got plefs me, what,. Mr. Morgan
“Why, that you are going to be married to John Jones, lord gwyn’s ft e ward.”
“Lord plefs me, how can people talk so scandalously of one — Surely they dare not say such a thing of me !”
“Of you L Zounds I why shouldi you escape.?.? won’t let others alone.”
“Got plefs me! O -- -- -- h!” !” she,
with a ftirug and quakerish groan of the spirit, quitting the room, -
Morgan setup. what with justice may ' be termed a horfe laugh,. Wounds!” said he, “L thought I wmld give the old
gossip a rebound. -- -- Now for a glass of
brandy,, and we’ll away to price’s, where we are to dine. Come, Dick.”
Dick was of a bashsul disposition, St. Clare, and could only laugh, and say “Yes” or “No.” But, adieu! there’s enough of country conversation, wshich differs as much from that of the polite world as the fun in its most transcendent glory from
C an dl
22
candle in a turnip; there is a welchfimi le for you.
As for old Shenkin, his forte lies in forcing bumpers down the throats of his male visitants; and he is what is here termed an honest: fellow, because he swallows half pints without being fustbcated. Here is plenty of such honest fellows; if thou art for one, St, Clare, doubt not of a good recommendation from thy most sincere friend
Diana Hortoh.
>«»
• •
%
from
%
 . 223
From the Same to the Same.
\
Shenkin Hall.
_ _
i ON honour, St. Clare, this dame' Fluellen is an original. She would form an admirable character, was she but known to our modern arislophanes. She absolutely affords me much diversion, and is continually here; foi am not at a loss for amusement. Fortunately she is not acquainted with the fabulous history of gods and goddesses, or I vow, St. Glare, I firmly believe she would fancy herself Minerva, so excellent an opinion has she of her own wisdom and sagacity. But novels, child, and pretty love fcenes, which are
light reading, she dotes on -- -- -- They fuit
her tasle — She feasts on them in private
-- -- They fliev/ the way of life so, and
are so edifying!” -- -- -- Edifying!” Sr.
Clare: ha! ha! inflaming the passions of a woman of feventy four. Edifying! — Haha! ha! she’s droll, ’pon honour. Then she enters into the spirit of them,,
and
14
♦ t
and bemoans the fate of the heroine, who is undoubtedly a proyligy of virtue; crying with a sigh, “Poor thing, she went thro’ a great deal: it’s very natural, is’n’t ir, lady Di ?” “Oh, yes, very in sir active.”
1 mean, St. Clare, in the art of love, they show young ladies how to proceed with their lovers. Then to it she sits again vfith more eagerness than many a girl of fifteen, and treble the attention she bellows on her prayers.
I absolutely think, St. Clare, Nature designed this hag for a tutorefs, for she idolises the power of commanding. If any one is going out at a door the same time as herself, she says, with a Spiteful authoritative leer and half whisper, (pushing them at the same time as a hind would a
pig out of a stye)) — go along! -- -- assis
no one knew how to walk without bidding but herself. I turned short round the other day, and in a childish tone said,
May 1 go now, Madam?” She was rather confused, but “the leopard cannot change its shots.” Then at breakfasl she tells Miss Shenkin to take the napkin on
her lap -- -- to sit nearer the table -- and
‘‘ take care, Miss Shenkin, you had better cut that toasl in two, you will find it
handier to put to your mouth.” Absolutely
 .
lately fact, St. Clare. Upon which shen» kin, who is a good-natured creature, bursfs out a laughing, and tells her she was taught all that twenty years ago. “Oh, I only spoke, because I thought you would grease yourself” ” Wisdom, tossing her head. Her manner of speaking makes it so laughable and ridiculous, together with her little eyes, which are turned to the corners in a manner prollitutes Seek for prey, and are continually emitting spleen; She is frequently talking of days of yore, when she was at London, what was going forward among people of fashion — hovr careful lord and lady Columbus, whom
she was with, were of her -- -- -- She never
walked the Streets alone, not she, such care was taken of her; and she went here, and she went there — At lasl, St. Clare, ’pon honour, Mrs. Shenkin told me, as a secret, Fluellen had been Abigail to lady Columbus. - Ridiculous fool, to boast so. As my stay here will not belong, i will not lose. diversion, by offending her, in contradicting her own report of greatness. Let the wretch boast on. Every now and then she is in a fit of feigned grief, which slime widows are liable to — bemoaning the loss of her friend, her dear friend — Oh 1 she can never be happy -- -- -- She fufferesh
L 5 ^ ah!
\
a/rtui: 1v/f TIT A t TT T’T'V r
^ ■■ ■■ mm ^ •* tmirnm ^ mm •• mm ^90 ^
I
/
ah! she suffered what no one ever did —. Oh! her dear friend, she could have wished to have died with him. For sometime I thought it was an old lover, and asked her who he was, what was his name ** my dear Mr. Fhiellen, to be lure; do you think I could lament the loss of anybody elfe so } — No, God knows.” Now, really, St Clare; I think she has been a woman of intrigue, from that very ctrcumstance of bestowing the title of friend so lavishly on her husband, as if she was ashamed of the latter appellation. A male friend conveys an extensive idea, generally made use of by miftresses, but Seldom by wives., When she takes it into her head to be sorrowful, she commends herself exceedingly for her attention to him in bis last moments, as if no woman but herself ever bore affection to a husband, and yielded him all the comfort he was capable of at that period. Her manner marie me doubt the truth of her altertion. Upon inquiry, I found that she had spent very little time with him, and what she had he thought too much, as she had given him fussicient cause to dislike her before his last sickness— — very sight of her was hateful to him, poor man! she is really a genius in bypocrify, St, Clare, and
a de
  I F E. 227
a delightful retailer of news, therefore fit to live in this country. There is not a day passes but she brings information of maids being with child, or marriages of her own inventing, fomebody’s mortality, or goats breaking their necks by falls from the mountains; so that you may imagine she keeps us in continual amaze. What a delightful companion in the country 1 Then we have charming diversion with Morgan and her, for the ’fquire has taken it into his head to contradict and torment; her, which sets her a grinning, and leering, for she always does so when angry; a sure sign of malevolence within, St. Clare. Yesterday Shenkin and myself found it impossible to conceal our risibility at a Icene that passed between them. Mrs. Fluellen came sirsl, and related several anecdotes while we Sat at work : after which Morgan entered; and informed us he had jusl parted with old Mrs. Jones, who desired her compliments to us.
Oh, ” says Fluellen, “Mrs. Jones,
of -- -- -- -” (nodding her head at us
by way of rebuke to him for saying old.)
“Why, zounds, ” skid he, “she’s as old as you; and it’s time to call her so, '
that
*
•'
8 THE MUTABTT.TTY OF
that she may be dislinguished from her daughter in law.
“O Lord! aye, aye; as to myself \ myself old, but it’s vulgar
to distinguish ladies in that manner. — -- -
Aye, aye, as to myself, God knows, i’m
old enough -- -- -- -- Yes, i’m old, '* leering
at us.
“’sblood, ” said he, do you setup for a reformer of mannerswhat a pother you make about old age by G. —; d I be liev’’e you have a willing inclination to be young, which makes you so envious and given to scandal; but I mull tell you, old Duchess, that you shall not have me in your list of victims without smarting for it
-- -- Zounds, Madam,. i’ll prosecute you
for fcandal.’^
“I defy you! -- -- -- -- -- 1 defy you !^
said she, grinning, and edging on her seat, t
D -- -- -- mn your grins and your defiance,
” said he, still more provoked at her, “How dare you say I have designs
on my friend Jack green’s wise -- -- -- that
file suffers me to take liberties, and if Jack died I should marry her? Zounds, Madam, it’s an insult on my honour to suppose I would attempt debauching my friend’s wise, and a blast on her virtue
whic\v
 . 225
which time may never retrieve, besides the ill consequence attending its coming to her hushand’s ears, if he was not well convinced of my integrity, arid acquainted with the author of the vile detraction.”
He happened to be sober, St. Clare, which made him talk so well; but while haranguing took a glass or two of wine from the sideboard.
She all the time held her fore singer up to his face, and grinning uttered, wish the mosl malicious countenance ever seen, ‘‘ I defy you! — I defy you !” •
Shenkin and I burst out a laiigbing, ' and Howard, who had entered in the beginning of the fray, exclaimed, Good
God!” with a sort of horror.
“Zounds, the woman’s mad, ” returned Morgan. “Defy me! Will you defy the law I for, since you provoke
me. i’ll prosecute you, by -- -- -- --. Mrs.
Davies says she is willing to make oath you told her every syllable I have now mentioned.”
Fluellen changed colour when he named his author, but still teased him with her
_ 4
favourite words.
Howard sat as if upon thorns, but continued filent,
fluellen’s
>
on THE mtlta PHT.TTV 017
fluellen’s irritating manner provoked Morgan exceedingly. “Sblood, you old harridan, you may defy your friend the devil, if you will, ” said he, “but i’ll make you 'for the future not so fond of retailing made news.” So saying, he bowed to us, and retired.
She retained the same words till he departed, St. Clare, and then burst; into a loud hollow laugh.
I was resolved not to let it drop So, therefore began with “Well, Mrs, fiu elien, what will you do.?
“Ha! ha! ha! I defy him, my lady.” Ah, but my dear Mrs. Fluellen, if you said what he asserted, ’pon honour he may give you a little trouble; ”
“Well, never mind, my lady — ^ — I scorn him : aye, aye, he can do me no harm.” So saying, she took herself away laughing, and we have not seen her Since.
Howard sat in amaze at her, and seemed shocked to meet with such a character, in life.
My sweet Villars then entered with more company, and another conversation ensued. Villars is very attentive to me, and I am happy. Oh, I forgot to tell thee, St. Clare, that Lord Clandon
has
/
  I F E. 23!
has made proposals for Shenkin (or rather her fortune, which he Stands much in need of) : the old folks are mightily pieased at it, and Shenkin is quite elevated with the idea of being a Lady, but (till flirts with all that comes in her way.
ciandon’s design on Howard Seems not extindl, but what Scheme he has in train I know not. Clairville sighs like a Sorlorn lover, and tells me he intends leaving this country with Lord Clandon, ' as he cannot prevail on the charming miss Howard to listen to him. Thus is
the world here situated, St. Clares
I am quite tired with Scribbling, therefore
for the present adieu!
✓
A
, Th ine sincerely,
9
i
Di hortosh
Miss
•f
THF luttt ABH.TTV OR
/
0
0
Miss Howard' to Miss Meynel.
Elyfium place.
1%
AM extremely deprelted. in spirits, my ddar Harriot, from an incident that has happened in this neighbourhood, which musl hurt every feeling mind. What .evils spring from Detraction! mosl of the ladies of this country are votaries to that goddess, and continually bow to her sway. They affect piety, and repeat holy ejaculations, at the very time they are offending the Deity, by Slandering their neighbours, and depriving them of reputation, happiness, nay, almost: life. It is a serious. and melancholy consideration, and the divines here should frequently expose this vice, with all its horrid consequences.
But let me inform you, my dear friend, of the cause of this serious reflection. There often visits at Mrs, shenkin’s an old lady, named Mrs, Fluellen, who is esteemed a happy retailer of news, and has cunning to fathom secrets. From
this
  I F E.
this quality, she is called a sensible, artful woman. Lady Di has drawn a droll caricatiira of her, wish she following motto :
Tis secret trutlisl fadioin with my eyes.
And guilt unknown to others I funnife.”
I must confess, Flarriot, she had something in her manner that at the first inter view gave me a disgust to her; and, without being skilled in physiognomy, I soon read her character. She is overbearing ia company, from her fancied superior wisdom, ’tho at the same time ftie will shrug up her shoulders, and pretend to be very humble. Every nov and then she broaches a French word, with I remember they used to say so when I was at London; giving herself numerous airs about her grandeur when she was there. Mr. Villars inform ed me, when I mentioned it, that she had been waiting woman to some people of fashion. Now. no honest employment is to be despised;; gentlewomen of good families have been reduced to it, and treated with respect in their places; but it is, a very great folly for people to affect to be greater than they are. Had she been filent, we, perhaps, should have been ignorant
\
0
34
norant of her servitude. For some years she had been in this country, fully employed in reciting news, and frequently inventing it.
In this neighbourhood likewise reside a couple who were happy. Mr. Green is a very agreeable man, but, like his countrymen, rather too fond of his bottle. Mrs. Green is a very amiable, sensible young woman, of an extreme delicate constitution, and remarkably fond of her husband. Her filler, Miss Smith, resides with them. This Mr. Green had a very intimate friend, named Morgan, from whom he was scarce a day divided. Out of affection to her husband, Mrs. Green paid all possible attention to his friend, which Mr. Green seemed much pleased with, till Mrs. Fluellen, like a malevolent fiend, came and blasted all their joys. She formed ideas of her own what might be, and then went and imparted them to Mrs. Davies as facts, whose house she was just leaving when Mr. Green entered it. He said he had some private business with her, and desired he might go home with her. She complied, it seems. Mr. Green then told her he had just overheard her mention something about Morgan and his wife, and insisted upon knowing particulars. She
hemmed,
 . 135
hemmed, and laughed; then acknowledged she had heard that Mrs. Green and the ’fquire were very friendly together, with Some more hints, which drove the poor man almost: distracted, though he concealed his perturbation of mind before her. The same day, jiisl after this happened, I met her at Mr. shenkin’s, where was Mr. Morgan, threatening her, for daring to utter such scandal, which was the firsl I heard of it; and shall never as long as I breathe forget Mrs. flueilen’s diabolical countenance. She would have afforded an artist;, an excellent representation of Spleen. Her manner was irritating beyond description, and ftruek me with horror.
But let me return to Mr. Green.
Miss Smith says he was gloomy, sullen, and in an uncommon agitation, all day. Her sister was very unhappy, as file had never seen him in that way before. They silently retired to their respective chambers.
When Miss Smith came down in the morning, she saw Mr. Green on horseback, quitting the place, wuth a servant and portmanteau. Surprised exceedingly, .she went to Mrs. green’s chamber, where she found the unhappy lady senseless on the
floor.
?6
floor. She immediately called affislance, and dispatched a Servant for a physician. He arrived; and at lasf, by bleeding her, and forcing down medicines, reslored her to her fenses. She then informed her sister that Mr. Green had accused her of criminality with Mr. Morgan, and had vowed he Would never more live with, or ever see her again; that she had wept and fainted, in turns, all night; and that, feeing him quit the place, her senses were again quite overpowered. The Doctor and Miss Smith endeavoured to comfort her, but in vain; she relapsed into fresh agonies, now lies delirious in a violent fever, and ’tis feared cannot recover, if Mr. Green does not speedily return.
Mr. Morgan, who, ’bating his foible of drinking, is a good sort of man, is in the greatefb anxiety imaginable, and is gone in search of his friend, hoping, if he can meet him, to bring him to reason. Mr. Shenkin has made Mrs. Fluellen prisoner in his house, and swears she shall not escape till Mr. Green returns, when she shall on her oath answer the qiieftions put to her by him. This makes great diversion for the neighbours. She cries she defies him, and threatens him at his peril to detain her. He answers, he heeds
her
 , 237
her words as wind, and leaves her locked up.
Such, my dearesl Harriot, is the fatal consequence of people indulging themc selves in defaming others. Can Mrs, Fluellen be deemed less than a murderer if the amiable Mrs. Green dies.? A woman of her years, too, who should be hourly expecting a call from hence. How shocking the idea! No wonder she disiikes the appellation of old: it is guilt that makes age dreadful.
# %
!
I have been just now informed that poor Mrs. Green, for about the Space of five minutes, regained her senses, when recollection of her misfortunes made her relapse, and the Doctor fears there is no other alternative than madness or death.
Mr. Villars tells me this is not the first couple Mrs. Fluellen has made miserable by her wicked stiggestions; that he knows a very worthy woman, who happened not to have fuoh keen sensibility as Mrs. Green, that from Such an account Suffered many years ill usage Trom her husband, though he did not leave her, but was continually suspicious, which rendered the
poor
>
3$
poor woman’s life unhappy beyond expression.
I am exceedingly affected at mrs. green’s deplorable fate, and by Mrs. villars’s permission have been Several times to see her, though it gave me great pain to behold her melancholy condition. I was in hopes to find her senses restored, that I might adminifier all the comsort and consolation I could; but, alas! I was disappointed.
Lord Villars is gone with Servants in quest of Mr. Green. I hope they will be So Sortunate as to find him besore the unhappy victirn expires. Adieu! my
Harriot.
Silena Howard.
W
I
0
A
From
HUMANLIFE. 23s
9
From the Same to the Same.
N
Elyfium place.
J HAVE the pleasing satisfaction of
informing you, my clear Harriot, that Mr. Green is returned, and his wife fill lives. Lord Villars was so fortunate as to trace him to Bristol, where he found him at an inn. The unhappy man could not avoid his Lordship, and listened to his persuasive eloquence, which at lafl made him consent to return. In the interim Mr.
Morgan arrived, and protested his innocence of the fact charged against; him, his integrity, and friendship for Mr. Green. Lord Villars said the seen became very affecting. Mr. Green entreated his friend’s pardon for having wronged him in idea, and listened to the calumny of a wretch unworthy to live. He wept exceedingly at hearing the melancholy account of his wife; and after they had all taken refreshment, they fet out as fast: as possible for greemhall. I was there when they
arrived,
V
s 0

arrived. Mrs. Green was in a delirious state, and we knew not whether to introduce her husband or not; but the Doctor said it perhaps might be the only means of recalling her from that Slate. Mr. Green was in unspeakable ^gony from the thoughts of being the cause of her desperate situation. He entered; she immediately knew him, gave a violent Sliriek, and fell into faintings which lasted two hours. The Doctor then gave her something to compose her; she slept a little, and waked more tranquil, but spoke so low as scarcely to be heard. She asked us if
Mr. Green was not come -- -- -- she thought
she had seen him. By degrees we acknowledged he was in the house, and he ventured up flairs again, where he on his knees entreated her pardon. She begged he would mention it no more, as, if he was convinced of her innocence, she was happy. After feeing her thus restored to peace of mind took my leave, and lord Villars attended me home.
The following day Mr. Shenkin insisled on Mr. green’s coming before him to question Mrs. Fluellen; but that gentleman would not comply, as the sight of her, he (aid, would be horrible to him. However, Mr. Morgan went, and, with Mr.
Shenkin,
  I F E. 241
Shenkin, insilled upon her producing the author of her intelligence. They threatened her with a prosecution, and at last Co alarmed her with the fear of it, that ftie confcffed it was only her own suspicion gave birth to that infamous insinuation. Mr. Shenkin then insisted she should give a written acknowledgment that the whole she had said of Mr. Morgan and Mrs. Green was a falsity of her own invention, that their characters might be cleared to the world. She refilled at first, and said she would not make herself appear so black for all the foolish Justices in Wales.. Mr. Shenkin was enraged, and threatened her for daring to insult a man of his con feqiience and dignity. Morgan then begged justice Shenkin to compose himfelsh and let the wretch go; for he would prosecute her, and make her produce what hundreds she had, to pay for defamashn. This made her lower her note again. She agreed to write what they desired, and declared she would leave the vile country for ever. At last she was released, and is actually removing her furniture to Ibme other part of the world. Mrs. Green is still in a very languid state, but is out of danger they think, and ’tis said that Miss Smith and Mr, Morgan are to be united, vol. I. M which
»
[Z
which I am glad to hear, as it will be an additional security to that gentleman’s and Mr. green’s friendship.
Lord Clandon is now By the consent of her parents addressing Miss Shenkin; yet still he has the effrontery, when a convenient opportunity offers, to continue insulting me., As I hope it will be but for a short duration, my utmost; endeavours are exerted to bear it as patiently as I can, and avoid as much as postible affording him opportunities.
My Spirits are much oppressed lately; I find not the tranquillity I expected here: but time, I hope, will restore it, my beloved Harriot, and grant you the felicity you deserve. Many happy years may
you be blessed, whatever is the fate of
'Your unalterable friendj
i
Silena Howard..
Lady Di Horton to Madame St. Clar»,
Shenkin Hall.
O N honour, St. Clare, old Fluellen
h^s been in a dreadful scrape, by letting
her
HUMANLIFE. 24^
her tongue run too glib on people she had' no manner of business with. From it, a Mr. Green here grew jealous of his wish
-- -- left her- -- the poor woman had
absolutely like to have died; the confe quenceof which was, Shenkin, like a ninny, to show his authority, confined the old sorceress, as he called her; and most charming entertainment had I with theiri altercation. Fluellen was with us when news came Mrs. Green was expiring; (from some scandal that had been imparted to her husband concerning her, he had
left her) -- -- There it stopped;; Mr.
Shenkin had jush heard it from Morgan,, and entered in a delightful rage, Sn Clare.
There, Mrs. Fluellen! -- -- -- there- -- -- --
up his hands);; -- Fine doings of
yours -- -- -- fine doings by Got. I thought
what would come of your prattling and tattling, and now it’s poor Mrs. Green you’ve killed with it.” '
“I killed her! — I !-^ -- -- Got pless me,
Mr. Shenkin, F wonder to hear you talk
So! -- -- -1! -- -- -- Ha! ha! ha -- -- -- Poor
man !”
“Pore man! How dare you apuse me ' so i’ll convince you, tho’, i’m a juslice of the Peas, and i’ll detain you in my house safe, for I swear you shall be tucked
M z up
H
up if poor Mrs, Green dies by your wicked diabolical tongue. Oh! it’s an evil member with you !”
Detain nv, at your peril, Mr. Justice.
Ha! ha! ha! -- -- -- Me!! — can you
do to me.? — I defy you !”
“By Got, Madam, you shall not defy
me with impunity -- -- Soin — — in, ” said
he, pushing her into miss shenkin’s bedchamber.
She cried, grinning, “Unhand me, Mr. Justice— — know I can prosecute you for detaining me prisoner“
“aye, Mrs. make lies, ” said he, locking her in, and taking the key; “you may now repent of your sins at leisure— — me, do you.?”
“Yes, I do, Mr. Justice” ” she, laughing, and bawling through the keyhole, in a hollow tone; “Detain me if you dare.”
We descended to the parlour, St. Clare, and he followed.
I am tired of repeating the story, but must inform thee Mrs. Green is better —
her husband returned -- -- -- Fluellen made
concession, and is gone, we hear, with her goods and chattels, to Ludlow. Now really her lies were abominable, because they answered no, end; mere malice prepense.
A creature to steal a lover from
one.
n u ivx rx IN ju i r CI 2: 45
1 ^ 1
kjll\0y yjk c*ljjf v71 w11c4u x\m/1 lJi40
excuse to plead, you know, St. Clare; but I have no patience with the old harridan,. for garrulity’s sake, to forge idle news to dillurb the tranquillity of an, innocent couple. I was going to drink oblivion to her memory, but, ’pon honour, I should then deprive myself of much mirth by frequently recalling her to mind.
Clandon is retailing, his whole Stock of fine Speeches on Shenkin, who gives herself a multilude of airs; and Howard is
confined to the house by a cold, -- -- But i
see my dear Villars approaching, therefore must bid thee a hearty adieu, my dear St. Clare.
V
tour’s, &c.’
Di Horton.
Lord Villars to Lord Duncan.
HE pursuit of happiness, which is, ’ according to Pope, “our being’s end and aim, ” lures us on through life: our expectations of it in the region we at present are, varies at different periods of
M s our
.6
our existence, and orten when we imagine ourselves approaching it, the phantom is in reality farthest from us.
I thought, Duncan, some months since, that a total separation from Lady Villars would lay the foundation of my felicity, but the event has destroyed that illusive hope; I became a captive to the lovely Silena before I had regained my liberty, and there are so many infiiperable obstacles at present to my possession of her, on which my happiness depends, that it is at a very distant day, if ever, that I can flatter myself with that event.
To lull that flirt lady Di horton’s suspicions of my passion for the adorable Miss Howard, 1 have lately become very obsequious to her ladyship, but without avowing any particular esteem for her. It is very easy, Duncan, to make a woman of her stamp imagine that you have designs on her without feigning a passion — • Tder own vanity betrays her; and for the fliorttime she or I shall remain here, she may be easily deceived. I do it to preserve my charmer from the mischief her dadyship’s revenge might otherwise bring on her, Dumont, who is very gallant with Lady di’s wonsan, informed me sometime since, through that channel of her ladyfliip’s dilposision,
Miss
K
 . 247
TTT ' 1 1. l I lf
ivjuio 1 ju^vvaiv* liao «. cuiu aay
being caught in a heavy shower one'day coming from a neighbour’s, but I hope no fever will ensue— — sky’s she is well — Lovers fear the worst:.
We were sitting alone yesterday evening, when I entreated her to take something warm at night: file was much depressed in spirits, and answered with a sigh and tear, that she was obliged to me for my kind advice, but it was of very little signisication what became of her. Then, rising from her seat, she walked up and down the room in seeming anxiety of mind.
I vent and seized her lovely hand, Duncan; “Ah! my dear, my amiable miss Ho ward, rend not my heart by so bitter a reflection, ” said I; “my existence is interwoven in yours, and whatever afflictions you have I must: partake of : impart them to your Villars, he will strive all in his power to alleviate your distress. My esteem, my respect, my regard, for you, is more than I can express;; your friendship is all I demand in return — it is ail I can hope for.”
She withdrevr her hand, and surveyed me with the keenest penetration.
“Oh! forgive me my amiable friend, ’* continued I; “never more will I offend by a farther acknowledgement of my hopeless pastion — It was involuntary — Say'you will
.not
/
.8
not retute your trienciinip to nim wno would forfeit his life to preserve yours.”
“I must own, my lord, you have exceedingly surprised me by Such a declaration, but the idea I have imbibed of your rectitude of sentiment makes me hope you will banish every sensation but those of friendship for me, from your breast, when I confess, what I must entreat you to conceal, that I am already a wife. Misfortunes compelled me to be separated from my husband— — that is not to my present purpose;; I wish, and mean, by this declaration, is, to convince your lordship that a further pursuit of the unhappy object before you will be criminal, and oblige her to Seek shelter elsewhere.”
Ah! Charles, I dared not avow that I before knew her condition, or had any o there notion of her misfortunes than what she herself pleased to hint. — For Some time I remained speechless and immoveable. I observed her steal looks of pity at me, and heave heartfelt Sighs. At last I with difficulty made shift to utter, “■ Yes, madam, your will shall be obeyed, I will forget I ever had any Sentiment but friendship for you — but will you not permit me to alleviate your present anxiety
“It was only a retrospect of the past gave
me a Slight return of Sorrow, my lord -- -- --
But, ”
HUMANLIFE. 249
But, ” said she, by way of putting an end to the conversation“ “your lordship favour me ISAR as to read‘ a few poems out of this new book which Mr. Villars has just received from London * I took it with reverence from her hand, and luckily or unluckily opened it, and read as follows:
ELEGY.
What torture In the breast is pent, ’
When Hope withdraws her pleasing sway j Reason, her substitute, in vain is sent
To rescue from Despair its destined prey.
Death will o’ercome w’hat living vas my foe Vanquish all pain, and triumph o’er desire??
Atropos, approach, and end my woe.
Subdue the tyrant Love — expel his fit*..
The lovely Delia o’er rny filent grave
May then with friendly tears lament my fate; Lament the victim that (lie could not save,
Or mitigate in life his wretched state.”
I could not avoid reading it with a peculiar emphasis, as it was So Suitable to my state of mind at that juncture. My agitation made it difficult for me to proceed. miss Howard observed it; and, rising hastily, skid Mrs. Villars called, and immediately quitted the room.
My reflections were very gloomy ones; they turned on the villainy of Melville,
who
o
who could deprive lo angelic a creature or liberty, ruin her fame, then entirely neglect her, without hope of redress, or prospect of happier days, except death should snatch him hence, and fet her free; but, alas! that hope must be distant, as he is so young; a man.
It is impossible for me to remain here and not ossfendsher — I cannot conceal my sentiments— — must fly, and devote myself to misery. Oh! Duncan, you must comfort your almost: despairing friend
Villars.
Miss hov/ard ta Miss Meynel.
Pmmawr,
VV E have been these three weeks returning visits. The country is in many parts worthy the attention of a land
fcape painter -- -- the variety of prospects
beautiful indeed. We found a sincere welcome and affectionate reception everywhere
-- -- -- Hospitality is a pleasing virtue
with its helpmate Discretion; without that guide it frequently proves the ruin of
many. I have met with so much civility
in
H TT M A M T. T F F. orr
in this country, it would be ungrateful in me to di (com mend it. Lady Di Horton will carry a very unfavourable idea of its inhabitants with her to England, as she will not be persuaded but all the ladies are actuated by the same principles as those she met at the town she visited To condemn the people of a whole country for the sake of a very few individuals is ungenerous and narrow minded; but her Ladyship will not be convinced, and Strikes me filent by some flighty speech.
The gentleman and lady of this mansion are a very amiable couple: Mr,
Price has great genius and taste for improving his estate, which affords him both
amusement and profit. Wc ictuiii liuiiic
in two days, my dear Harriot. Great preparations are making for Miss shenkin’s wedding. Lord Villars intends quitting this country before the consummation of it, which Lady Di Horton is mudi displeased at. I hope — yet I must be silent at present.
The winter is approaching very fast — the fallen leaves are fcatered around, and convey gloomy ideas to a mind already too much attuned to melancholy observations. Oh! my Harriot, forgive me; I cannot erase my misfortunes from remembrance -- -- they occur frequently, when
with
h a falliner tear I sinhiner whisher to myself,
Alas! how tedious is life to the unhappy!
In our way hither we dined at a gentleman’s who is a celebrated antiloquift. He was at war with every sentence that was jttered. Lord Villars admired the fituati jn of his house; he immediately replied,
‘ it was the worsl in the whole country.” His Lordship said he could not help dif isring in opinion from him: ‘‘ O, your Lordship is no judge then, ” answered he rudely. Lord Villars bowed. It seems to De that man’s only happiness to contradict. Very person he meets with. What a irange miscrabte <^i/position! and what a
rrmst hlr wise lead!
I forgot, my dearest Harriot, in my ast, to congratulate you on your intimacy vith the worthy Mrs. Gordon. I knew you would think yourself happy in her friend.
hip and she in yours. Adieu!
• 0
\
Silena Howard.
J
I
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. <
%
..0 Cy. ■. V • ».• —
-55-. .'*• ■' - ■
^ i ■ ' ■* ' ■” ‘..U’. ' -
S' A. ■..,. *.
.... .■*
CAA
*. ^ -■>
ara.. -- ' \
- : j., i ^
r’ ' i. ', ."H'
■•'. : '~v
THE ■ '■
_ - T j
M U T A B I L I T Y
ro
F
 ,
f
B “W • ^
“.
■: * ir*
I 1.
? ' VOL. IL
A
p ja ^
/ efa. C V
f A r ■
C JF \ ^■'J
FA
■ ■ ' -
■ i". ". \ - -

•* ■•■'.. 'I J .« ■
; ' '-/’•• •'■ .' -- S.' '. ■ -- V •
. ■ - ■ ' ^ ■ ■
y i'" ^ -? • '-
: ^ .- '\ v!v^'* *
d ’
9
^ c.. •. ■ : ^ *
', • • V
’
U '. ^
THE
MU T ABILITY
O F
 ;
OR
MEMOIRS
OP
AD EL AIDE, Marchioness of Melville:
By a lady.
i
VOL. II
DUBLIN;
Printed for S. Price, W. slea1"er, W. Whitestone, W. Watson, D.cham
BERLAINE, J. hoey, J. williams, J.
Potts, W. Colles, G. Burnet, T. Walker, C Jenkin, E. Cross, L White, J. Exshaw, j Beatty.
M, DCC, LXX VJI.
9
I
4
THE
MUTA B ILITY
O F
 , c
«
^ ^ -« — :
Miss Howard D atiyi Meynel.'
Elyfium pldci
jm[y pen trembles in my hand, Har riot — I am going to confess my involuntary guilt. Oh! were it not in my opinion a breach in that friendship whicl has ever subsisted between us, I wouh sooner die than avow what must humi i hate me in your eyes, and what make! me despicable in my own. Lord Villan — — Can you not guesk the rest, Har ^ riot, and Spare me the pain of a recital : : vol. II B —
r
0'

I esleem him too much — Ah! Harriot, it was more than friendship made me so much admire his virtues, but it
-/ J
was his amiable qualifications, first caused it.. His tenderness— — friendship for
me -- -- -- Ahi why was I so long blind to
his and my own misery I — I should at first have quitted Elysium Place — but how covild I before I perceived the danger? When Mr. Clairville and others made offers of love, I heard them with horror, knowing myself a wife; but my guilty heart received with pleasure every assiduity of Lord Villar?, without re ilecting on the criminality, till by broken hints he avowed more than friendship then beheld the pi cci[.'ice before me, and, to cut him off from hope, told him 1 vas already married. .He seemed not much surprised at the news; but, in great anxiety of mind, promised never more tooffendbya further declaration. His behaviour increased my unfortunate esteem. While we were on our little tour he kept his word, though to appearance fie was very unhappy. We returned, and he .resolved to leave us. Had he jiot taken this resolution, I was deter
'*
mined .to quit Mrs. Villars, though I might not easily find another retreat so suitable, independent af iiis Lordship.
It
 . 5
If he returns next summer, I must fly, let what will be the consequence;; is the only remedy for us both. Ah! Harriot, the night before his departure, when'we were left alone, with •what delicacy and tenderness did he bid me a final adieu! *‘I am going to leae you. Madam, ” said he, “because I am convinced it gives pain to your generous and feeling heart to behold the unhappiness you cannot prevent; your friendship is all I can ever expect: or desire, and that I hope you will not deny me at a distance from you; it will be my only consolation in the dreary vale of affliction which my future days must be spent in — A sentiment ib pure cannot offend heaven. Let me entreat likewise. Madam, that if my service or interest can at any future period be of use to you, or any friend of yours, you will command them. — Will you not grant me your pity and friendship” said he, in the most affecting accents.
Oh! my dear Harriot, how extremely wretched was your friend! It was with the greatest: difficulty imaginable I made any answer. Cruel duty imposed severity, blit we were going to part for ever; might it not relax a little fhen 1
“Alas! ray Lord, ” returned I, “if
B z my

my pity and friendship are of any avail, you have them. My sincere wishes and prayers will be for a restoration of that peace of mind you .fay is fled. I doubt not but time., and the numerous superior objects you will meet with in polite .circles, will entirely eradicate the slight impression you received in your rural visit, and leave only a friendship, which I shall, be honoured by.”
“.Ah'! Madam, ” said he, “you are ■ignorant of your power; it is the charms of your mind I .admire, similar ones I cannot meet with.amidst folly .and dissipation— — charms, heightened by art, cannot seduce me; ’tis Nature I admire, and a soul replete with virtue and goodness— — esteem founded on these,, never be diminished.”
The melancholy air which he delivered his .sentiments in, unguarded me; spite ■of all caution., I shed tears, and entreated him to forget, me.
“Amiable friend, ” said he, taking my hand, nin.'that I must disobey you.”
At that crisis Lady Di Horton and Miss Shenkin enteresh Her Ladyship rallied him on his serious looks, and invited him to visit her in Grofvenor street.
1 saw him not the ensuing morning, as I determined to Ipare him and myself
the
 . 5
the embarrassment of taking leave before Mr. and Mrs. Villars, who might • easily have perceived our distress.
It is with greater horror that I now reflect on my union with the Marquis; but yet there would have been another infurmountable bar, for you know my opinion concerning divorces, my dear Harriot: therefore, while Lady Villars lives, were I Sree, I would not accept of
his lordship’s hand.
But why do I reason in this criminal manner Am I not melville’s wife? and shall I, like him, persidiousiy transfer my love to another.? — Oh! Harriot, niy bosom is in a perpetual warfare — I am constantly on my knees imploring offended Heaven for peace cf mind; for resolution to banish from my thoughts the object wiiich at present has an undue share in them. — Pity me, Harriot for give me.' — I strive against a passion my
reason condemns, what can I do more ^ — Oh! I am wretched; all my missor^ tunes, reviving, crowd upon my mind, and almost overwhelm me! If Melville had proved constant, my esteem would have continued for him, and this affliction would never have overtaken me.
Ah! no, I palliate in vain, I vvas a stranger to love till I knew Lord Villars;
B 3 my
THE MUTABIT.TTY OP'
my regard for Melville sprung only from a dutiful and grateful friendship. —! what a wretch am I upon the earth! — D ivine, omnipotent Power, preserve my senses; pardon my murmuring; let not an insignificant mortal repine at thy dif pensations, but endue me with patience and fortitude to submit to them, till, in thy good time, it shall seem fit to thee to end my misery and life together. — Oh! Flarriot, how sensibly the least deviation from the path of rectitude must affect a heart unwilling to err! — It wounds, indeed, very deeply, that of your agonised, self condemned
Silena Howard.
Howard to Mss Meynel.
Blyjlum place.
Jl he violent perturbation of mind under which I wrote last to you, my dear Harriot, (thanks to that Being who listens to the ardent petitions of contrite mortals,) has almost subsided to a calm. Nevertheless, I must confess, there still remains too much tendej concern annexed to the remembrance of Lord Villars. Ah! Harriot, I can never, I fear, wholly annihilate it: but one thing I must, entreat

HUMANLIFE. 7
t
treat you to comply with; that is, never to mention him in your letters to me. As you say he is the intimate friend of your cousin, I have reason to fear feeing his name often, left it should prove a means of increasing ray unhappiness and guilt. I hear of him too frequently as it is, from Mr. Villars; but I am determined to avoid that, or thinking of him, as much as in my power lies. Was I to give way to reflection on his many amiable qualities, I should only be working my ov/n misery during existence, as I must never See him more.
I have been boasting of a calm, my dear friend; but a very Small indulgence of this Sort would again hurry me into distraction. This is the last letter you shall receive on a Subject which yields nothing but uneasiness, and renders me culpable in mine own eyes. However, you will yourself See Lord Villars, and find LI ow worthy he is of every person’s esteem — You will tell me— —! no — you must not tell me anything — you must not mention him to me. Alas! how incoherent I am } Pity me, Harriot. Why does not reason reassume her sway.?.? — destiny! — But I must lay aside my pen; for at present I find,
B 4 in
’ rxj t7 tv/tttnra dtt t't'v r XL
in spite of me, it will be employed on no other subject. Oh! Harriot -- -- --
Miss shenkin’s fet dements are almost finished, and Lord Clandon has the assurance to tell me he marries her fifteen hundred a year. A friend of his lord ship is expected to attend the wedding Lady Di Horton wants it over much. I perceive that she is now tired of the country. Fler partiality for me is much lessened : but Miss Shenkin wants me to quit Mrs. Villars to live with her. You may be certain, for many reasons, my dear friend, I denied her.
Mrs. Green is now almost recovered, and we have had the surprising news that Mrs. Fluellen is married to a young curate at the place she went to. The account of it she wrote herself to a cousin in this country. She will now, I fupi pore, be heartily punished for her iniquities.
Adieu! my dearest Harriot. It is my constant vdsh that Lord and Lady Lorton may be convinced how worthy you are to fix their son’s happiness. I should imagine, that is he ventured to ask their conient he would not meet with a refusal — But you must both be better
j udges
t4 TT : cf A M T. 1 t7 F.. n
judges of the cafe, as you are on the spot, and well acquainted with their dispositions— — the fun of bliss ever attend you, unobfcured by those clouds which, with very few intervals, have been constantly pouring down woes on
the devoted head of
Silena Howard!
Lady Di Horton o Madame St. CL are.'
sbenkin hall
THE
account of your amour wuth Silvio came in good time; for, ’pon honour, I was quite a la mon. The lovely Villars is fled to the beau monde, and I' vow I was almost tempted to infringe the laws decorum has prefer!bed to our sex, and fly with him — But shenkin’s confounded wedding was another impediment. You know, as it is to be consummated So Soon, it would have been very ill-bred to depart. Villars quitted me with great respect, and promised to visit me at London as Soon as he should hear of my arrival there; but I have still Some Suspicion, St. Clare, of his liking Howard. She, too, has been quite in the dumps since his departure. Yet,. why did he leave her, if 'that was the
b5.; case.?
•«1
o THE MUTABILITV OP
*
cafe? — I vow, St. Clare, 1 know not what to think of it — If I was convinced it was really so, most certainly I would contrive some method of displacing her : but perhaps that might be worse; for now she will be far enough from him for some months, and 1 shall have an opportunity of completing my triumph. — If I am disappointed in my design, I will not fail to send some knight errant to wreak my revenge on her. don’t you think that will be the. best plan, St. Clare? Yet, as you said in a former letter, I can’t think such an insipid can have gained advantage over my superior and brilliant charms. No, no; my vanity and friendly mirror convince me you are right.'
I have had two or three ’fquires here dying Cox my Ladyship, and Clandon begins to be very gallant but he is a fool, and I should lose my reputation by flirting with him. He tells me a very intimate friend of his will arrive soon to see him shackled, and that he is an elegant. Sensible young Sellow; So I have Some chance of keeping up my Spirits with him during my stay in this hideous place. The wind blows — horrible storms Succeed. I vow, St. Clare, I would not remain here the winter to become miftress
of
 . II
of the principality, and receive due homage, as sovereign, for ever. — Oh! I could never forego the delights of the enchanting metropolis; the constant attendance of Boreas, and the continual wrath of Neptune, during the winter months, would make one always anticipating death; and who would think of that spectre in the bloom of youth and beauty?
. Apropos; it is the custom among the vulgar hottentots of this country — the cottagers I mean — when they imagine any of their kindred of friends expiring (which by their ignorance may often be supposed when not really so) — to turn them upon their left fide, in order to send them the easier out of the world, as they define it; and, hastily jerking away the pillow or bolster, they let the dying perfon’s head fall Suddenly and forcibly on the bedstead; by which means the sick folks make their exit a little sooner perhaps than Nature intended : a rare expedient, St. Clare, for a young fellow to send on old one out of the world whom he is to become heir to.
What do you think I Old Fluellen has fastened on some young curate for life. Only think of being tied to such a harridan till death doth them part for I vow, St. Clare, I believe she will
live
f •
1
A
live to reckon a hundred. To be sure there was fascination in his eyes that made her forget to weep after “her dear friend.” I told you, St. Clare, she was fonder of novels than prayer books: behold the consequence!! the vulgar adage is, marriage and hanging are controlled by desliny.
Shenkin paints herself higher than an Italian Singer; but Clandon wants her fortune; foi suppose, let her act as she will, he will not Sue for a divorce.
I had a letter from town not long since, which mentioned that Melville begins to disagree with his present Lady, who turns out a virago. You are so full of Silvio, that you told me no news in you last.
Adieu! St. Clare. In my next you will find an account of the wedding, and Something of our removal towards you. Till when, and ever, I remain
your’s
Di Horton.
* S
mjs
J
H TT M A N T. T F F.. is
✓
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.
Ely sum Place.
W„ r. dear Harriot, will you
write to me of Lord Villars, when you know how necessary it is I should forget him i— — you tell me “it is only this time you intend doing it, as you thought I should expect your opinion of him — That you will acquit me from blame in not being able to withoid my friendship from so worthy an object ’’ If we were both at liberty, indeed, it would be excusable;; as it is, my dear friend, the idea of him is not to be cherished without my contracting a sense of guilt. Oh! do not encourage me to think myself innocent. You cannot — you will not — you know it is criminaf; — only at present Slrive to soothe my mind to peace. Kind friend! May your wishes prevail! But, ah! Harriot, I fear it is not here they will be accomplished — I too frequently hear of the amiable Lord, from his uncle Mr. Villars, to be able to forget him; his darling nephew is his constant topic. Think what I must suffer;; sometimes, Hear that to recover
my
0
.
\
my tranquillity I must leave this friendly manfioh, and seek it in another country.
I have heard from Lady Di that the Marquis and Violetta begin to be un happyj and that she is striving for the mastery. She will find herself mistaken. The Marquis, should he once dislike her, will not easily be regained : he will not, I am sure, by capricious tyranny; tho’ this takes effect: on some violent tempers sooner than a milder conduct. She may, perhaps, be brought to repent of the injury she has done me. But what then! I can draw no ray of hope from it. The Marquis has plunged me too deep in infamy ever to extricate me without dishonouring himself. Ah! Melville, she who was the occasion of thy cruelty to me, may now prove a tormentor to thyself; and in some unhappy moments thou mayest perhaps wish for the gentle Adelaide again, whom thou hast taken such pains to dilcard, and render miserable. Providence often orders it so, that what we imagine will make for our good here, often proves our greatest bane. Melville thought he could not exist without Violetta : he possessed her, and now she proves a plague to that existence. How jvvst the punishment for
his
W TT M A NT T. T t7 F
his iifage of me! — But I forgive him — I pity his infatuation— —
was sent for by Mrs. Villars, who informed me that we must; dress to go and dine at Mr. shenkin’s, in honour of the stranger who is to pay his compliments as groomfman futuriis. The post will be going off in my absence; for which reason I will close my letter, wishing you a speedy attainment of happiness with your Duncan.
Silena Howard.
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel. -
ejyjium place.
E N we arrived at Shenkin hall, Mr. Clairville flew to assist us in alighting from the carriage, and conducted us to the drawing-room. “Ah! Miss Howard, ” said he, “this stranger must infallibly fall a victim to your charms; perhaps, too, from his superior merit, he may be more successful than myself“
“will convince you. Sir, of your mistake in both points, ” returned I.
We could say no more before Mrs.
Villars
i THE MIT.DABTT.TTY OT7
Villars entered the room, and we followed.
A gentleman sprung forwards — Oh! Harriot, what was my surprise and horror at feeing the very Mr. Nugent who had insulted me at Nice.
“By Heaven, ” exclaimed he, “my adorable Miss Bel” ^ -- Howard” ”
terrupted I, to prevent, if possible, his mentioning my maiden name.
He took the hint, imagining there was some mystery, and rejoined, “How long have you been in this country my lovely Miss— — — — —
Lady Di Horton observed what passed, and looked astonished, as did Mr. Clairville. I was in great agitation of mind, expecting every moment he would betray me. He continued obsequious, and seated himself by me.
“You seem to be old acquaintance, ” said her Ladyship ironically — “’pon honour, it was lucky you met here.”
“I swear, my Lady, ” returned he, “I esteem it a very great happiness: :. Miss- -- -- -- Howard will, perhaps,
refuse the acknowledgment of a. former acquaintance.”
» By no means, Sir; old friends always retain the place with me they ever liadj and you will be still entitled to the
Same
 . in
same reception I gave yon when I w’as happy in having my friend alive to protect me.” I looked at him, at the same time, with a meaning, that he might, learn, from what said, that I would not accept of any address from him, though I feared provoking him, lest he should discover me.
He bowed thanks, and whispered Lord Clandon, wdio soon after proposed walking before dinner. His Lordship escorted Lady Di, Mr. Clairville Miss Shenkin, and Mr. Nugent fell to my lot.
They w’alked before us, and Lord Clandon and Miss Shenkin drawing their companions attention from Mr. Nugent and myself, the latter began with, “I desired my friend, if possible, to indulge, me with a private conversation with you, my charming Miss Belmont, that 1 might receive instructions how to proceed, during my stay here, in answering the interrogations which will be put to me concerning our Sormer acquaintance; Sori find they are ignorant of your affair with the Marquis. Ah! miss Belmont, how could you use me with Such Severity and cruelty! — But let me hope you will now relax, and make your adorer happy —
My
;
My purse shall be at your command — I
will present you a cart blanche“
“me, Sir, to interrupt your proceeding; I am still virtuous; the possession of empires should never allure me to the vicious flep you propose; but I can’t now so much blame you for your unworthy sentiments of me, as I am deserted by my husband, family, and friends. A state of dependance is what I am now obliged to submit to, and were I known to be the person who claims Melville, as her husband, I should be deprived even of that, should be discountenanced everywhere, should become a prey to want. In the most solemn manner, appealing to Heaven, I vow that I am the real and lawful wife of the Marquis of Melville, and that I am as unpolluted by the Count de St. Lou as yourself. If you would take time for reflection, Mr. Nugent, you must be convinced of my innocence. — My relations know not where I am — Was my mind disposed for intrigue, I am young undoubtedly, and therefore need not be at a loss for an abode with some lover who would maintain me according to my wishes — But I prefer virtue, poverty, or servitude, to Splendid vice.” I then informed him in what manner I was introduced to the
Villars
 . lo
Villars’ family, and of their kind treatment of me. “I have found a safe asylum, Sir, ” continued I, “but you have it in your power, by broaching the secrets I wish to be concealed, to effect: my discharge, and to fmk me into fresh troubles: notwithstanding which, be assured, Mr. Nugent, I shall never listen to your addrelfes, or any other man’s, while the Marquis lives. And if you intend to revenge my rejection' of your criminal proposal, do it forthwith, that I may speedily know the worst“
“! Miss Belmont, ” returned he, “you are sensible of your power over me: I swear I pity you extremely, and affure you, however violent my passion, I will never betray you, my sweet creature — even should you continue inflexibly unkind.”
By this time Lady Di was quite out of patience; fly had marked Nugent as her victim, and would no longer be withheld from him. She approached to ask his opinion of the place. Mr. Clairville likewise seemed unhappy, and ess caped to me from Miss Shenkin. “My prognostication was true, Miss Howard, ’* said he; “Mr. Nugent has the advantage of me by a prior acquaintance — ^
But
)
But if your happiness is the consequence I ought not to remonslrate.”
Be assured, Sir, ” returned' I, “you are exceedingly deceived. My. friendship for you is superior to that I have for Mr. Nugent. Our acquaintance, in the days of my prosperity, was very Slight; only his manner of expressing himself makes an observer imagine more then in reality fubfists.”
“There is no other alternative tham for me to believe you, Madam; but” — (he paused— — was not your name when he knew you.”
'“It was not, Sir, ” returned I, blushing. “To avoid disgracing my relations, when I was reduced to my present situation, I thought it proper to take another name.”
He bowed, saying, ‘‘ Oh! that you would permit a man who loves you beyond expression once more to change your name, and place you in a more elevated situation.. not equal to your merit.”
“Let me entreat you, Mr. Clairville, ” said I, “to desist from importuning what I cannot grant — what I must ever deny. Why will you persevere in making yourself and me unhappy ?”
hi
 . 21
“Oh! miss Howard, ” Said he, sighing, “must I then ever Sue in vain ?”
Nugent turned round, and joined us, to the visible displeasure of Lady Di. We returned to the house, where; after tea, vve formed a concert to conclude the evening. There was one wanting to make it harmonious. Oh! my Harriot, you may guess whom I mean. If I had not observed it, Mrs. Villars would have reminded me, by Saying her nephew .Diphiir was wanting; to which she Subjoined, as usual, a laugh.
Mr. .Nugent astced if Mr. Orphus was near.af hand, and could be sent for.
“Ah! Lord, no, ” returned she; “ha! ha! ha! I wish he was; but poor Lord 'Villars is as far off as smoky London. — Ha! ha! I call him Orphus because you know the god called soused to excel every one.”
“Oh I I beg pardon, Madam, ” said he, sheering at her gravely — ‘‘ I did not know where Orpheus resided.”
The wedding is to be celebrated in a week’s time; soon after which all the visitants will take their departure. I hope Mr. Nugent will leave the country without betraying me, as it will not be
easy
2
easy for me to gain such another asylum without a Strong recommendation.
I remain.
My dear Harriot,
Your moll Sincere friend,
Silena Howard.
\
iksyr Howard to Meynel.
Elyfium place.
jr. Nugent continues to be trou blesome, notwithstanding the fixed dis dain with which I have rejected his libidinous Suit. Ah! my Harriot, how obstinate the heart that premeditates mis chies.? There is no ppssibilily of turning it from its purpose. To heighten my iineafiness, Nugent declares, that, if I will not comply with his wishes, he will iio longer conceal my history, but entertain Lady Di with a disclosure of it, who is very desirous to know who I am. Not to be under obligations to an infamous fellow, who so anxiously endeavours to plunge me in guilt, I told him that he was at liberty to act in that respect as he pleased, and should Mrs Villars dismiss me, upon hearing his Story, I should Still have the consolation of bosom virtue to accompany me, while
peace
\
 . 23
peace of mind and Providence shall be my guide. His answer was well adapted to the libertinism and licentioufness of his character. Should revenge urge him to fulfil what he threatened, I don’t imagine Mr. Villars would gratify him sofar as to desert me. His great humanity would make him refiedt on my mis fortunes, and, I think, reflection would soon persuade so humane a person of my innocence; but if otherwise, I must; submit. Indeed, it will not now be so great a hardship, as I wish to banish the amiable Lord Villars from my remembrance. ‘but this is a Subject in which I must not indulge myself, my dear friend. Improper ideas should be hastily expelled. They are fatal.
We hear that the unhappy Mrs. Fluellen is at the point of death: her husband has deserted her, and conveyed her fortune with him no one knows whither. May affliction bring on repentance, and cause her to propitiate that offended Power to whom the secrets of all hearts are known.
Next week Miss shenkin’s wedding is to be celebrated. She is full of friendly professions to me, and urges me much to attend her to London. Alas! she .knows not the misfortunes I have there
already
u
already experienced, or how unfit I am for company. She is too much attached to gallantry to be long satisfied with the attendance of one who would be continually passing censure on what Jhe terras innocent amusement. She knows not the horror in which I hold her principles. Situated as I am, I have no business to meddle with her actions — I must: not say anything, Harriot — But, by nugent’s account of her, she is unworthy being even Lord ciandon’s wife.
I find warm altercations continue between Violetta and Melville. They say she is jealous of him to desperation, and vows revenge. He tells her, she had best rest at peace, or he will totally discard her. Poor Melville! Perhaps he may now wish he had been faithful to his once beloved Adelaide. — But it cannot be — His own honour will never permit him to disavow Violetta. Ah I Harriot, I must remain a fugitive, and expect only to find repose in the filent grave. There the wicked cease from troubling — there are the weary at rest.
Adieu!
Silena Howard.
Lady
 . 25
Lady Di. Horton to Madame St. Clare.
Shenkin hall.
I VOW, St. Clare, you provoke me exceedingly with your furmises. Why should you imagine my silence proceeds from being engaged in some agreeable adventure, when you know the delight of my soul, my charming Villars, is far dislant?
I have' been immersed in perplexities and troubles. — Confound this syren Howard, she makes my superior charms of no effect. Oh! I could tear her piecemeal. This Nugent is a charming fellow, but a mere blank in comparison with Villars. He would do very well for a chaperon in my lovely fellow’s absence— — tolerable figure for a dangler — and for such small purpose I had fixed him in my idea; but this creature, this Howard, it seems,
was an old acquaintance. He was in
&
raptures at the unexpected sight of her, and had like to have betrayed her hislory, which, spite of all my alluring arts, I have not yet been able to extract from him. In the interim. Patch, received a 'Ttter from George, a fellow belonging • i Villars, acquainting her his Lordship ' H been extremely ill on the road, but
C ha d
0
S
had given strict orders that it should be concealed from his uncle; and that they all knew he was in love with Miss Howard, which was the cause of his illness. You must know I compelled Patch (whose pride was above a footman) to listen to this fellow’s addresses, and correspond with him that I might hear of my adorable Villars : with great promises of reward for making her undergo such indignity, fly complied. ’pon honour, St. Clare, I am angry, with myself for still harbouring such favourable sentiments of a man who Slights my charms r but Villars is — Oh! he is engaging beyond description. I have this morning been tampering with Nugent, and listened to his passion for Howard — advised him to display her secret history, as perhaps Mrs. Villars might dismiss her, and she might be easily entrapped into a share of his — a thousand expedients might be formed to put her into his power, c— — ] for revenge on her, St. Clare.) — He seemed to listen with attention, and I pursued my advice; that, to avoid offending her intentionally, he should communicate it some evening before company, feigning to be drunk. He swore, if she would not be more favourable to him, he would comply with my advice;
burr
 . vj.
but I could not persuade him to let my curiosity into her hillory. It signifies, indeed, not much to me, if I could but get her removed from the knowledge of my Villars— — Villars — Confusion to her, he is her Villars, I think. It is a great mystery to me, too~why don’t he
marry her ?Why don’t he -- -- -- -- -- -- } I
vow, St. Clare, it’s past my divination, and I am almost distracted at the disappointment of my wishes. ’pon honour, I am on the wing to quit this place; for the days get very short, the wind roars, and with impetuous blasls Srequently threatens the demolition of this Welch caslle. The waves at a Small distance dash against the rugged rocks, and sill one with horror and the Spleen. Reallyq St. Clare, were it not for the numerous objects which are continually silling the hoiise, I should, be annihilated, or deeply absorbed in the vapours; and, with the addition of my unfortunate passion, should be almost tempted, like Sappho, to precipitate myself from some Stupendous mountain into the main. I need not travel far in this country to execute such a purpose. I was sometime since visiting a family, St. Clare, whose dwelling house was situate in a valley surrounded by mountains, mostly barren; but a few
^ C z acres
9
D 't'ttrt? a/rttnr«at)tt T'T'V TT
acres separated the house from the mountains. How those poor wretches can live there throughout the winter, in so confined and dreadful a place, is to me allo nishing. I am certain one dreary month would totally demolish me. No draw' ing room, no opera, no Pantheon, c. The idea is insupportable: Horrible, horrible, most horrible !’■
As for the men of this country, they may as well breathe here as in any other place. From dinner to different hours at night, according as they are able to bear it, they dedicate to brutal Bacchus, and are conveyed to bed by their servants, a disgrace to human nature, and the blindness of Fortune, that can shower favours on Such a crew. But why do I devote my pen in the least to these inanimates, * when Villars claims all my attention? Patch has received another letter from her admirer, which says my charming fellow is tolerably recovered, and now in London. Do, my dear St. Clare, find means to inform me concerning him; but you must be expeditious, for my stay here will be fiiort. I must execute revenge, tho’, on Howard, before I depart, to put her out of Vil
lars’s
«
H H M AN T. T F F. za
lars’s way: Nugent shall be my instrument. Adieu I
Yours, c.
drhortok.
9
*
%
mi/i Howard to Miss Mleynel,
Elyjium place.
X Ellerday, my dear Harriot, Miss Shenkin was made happy, by being put in possession of the legal title of “your Ladyship, ” and Lord Clandon, by enjoying in idea her future fortune, for at present she has only nine thousand pounds. I believe a more indifferent couple never met each other at the altar. Strange infatuation! May they never have reason to repent it. The evening was concluded with a bail, which is to be repeated again tonight. We are to attend. Mr, Nugent, V ith whom I was obliged to dance, behaved with such insolence, that I was on the brink of applying to Mr, Villars for redress;; the reflection that I must soon then be displayed as Adelaide Belmont by him, in revenge, made me re* main silent; and, as a few days will take him from me, I practised the philosophy of necessity, and determined to bear it.. Lady Di seemed pleased at detecting my
C 3 distress.
V
distress, and several times wished me joy of my conquest;; at which, I answered, he was too insignificant, and too disagreeable, to occasion joy; that disdain and abhorrence where the sentiments he excited in me, for of all earthly creatures a coxcomb was most my aversion.
“■ Oh Heavens!” said. the new made Lady Clandon, “■ is it possible that you can be displeased with the tenderness of the love in Spiring Nugent? Ah! no— — deceive us — en veriih, Silena, il ejl impoffiblev
“Indeed, my Lady, it is not impof sibie« but veritable, ” returned I.
“Ah! Howard, you still dissemble— —? come, consess to us his powersul charms have shbdued you. Il Pen Jaura rien : we will be your faithful confidents.”
“I can only repeat, what I before averred, Madam, that he is, according to my taste, a disgufting man, and that I shall See him depart with pleasure.”
We were interrupted by Some of the company, who called us to join the dancers; and thus a period was put to our little contest.
Mr. Shenkin and all the Welch gentlemen were So intoxicated upon this oc casion, that Some of the ladies clothes
received
 . st
\ '
received the effects of their inebriety, which caused great murmuring. The smell of tobacco was likewise intolerable.
I hope never to be at so disagreeable a wedding again.
But I am ordered to attend Mrs. Villars to this seen of disagreeable confusion again; therefore, for the present, adieu! my dear friend.
%
Ah! my dear Harriot, how vain the boast of philosophy and fortitude! mif fortunes, repeated misfortunes, make the pliantom fly far away, and resign us wholly to pusillanimous dejection. Mr. Nugent has enjoyed his full measure of revenge on your unhappy friend, and made her a subject for the sport of the company : but you will be anxious to hear particulars, and you .ftiall be gratified.
A numerous company were assembled, very few of the genrlemen attended the tea table, and Mr. Nugent was one of those who remained drinking in the parlour. The siali began; Mr. Clairville was my partner; it was a disagreeable seen of confusion, similar to the preceding. day. Mr. clairville’s remarks
C 4 were
2 THE MUTABTI.ITY OP
were sensible and delicate, as usual. At last supper was announced *, we repaired to it, each gentleman seated by his partner. We had been about half an hour at table, when Mr. Nugent entered, extremely intoxicated. Mr. Shenkin and ail that had Stayed below seemed in the same situation. Mr. Nugent Staggered up to me. Saying, “’pon my Soul, my lovely marchioness, I can keep your
council no longer -- -- So— — leave these
mountaineers, and return — return to my embraces. Why should you still bemoan the loss of Melville I for — for, my dear creature, I Swear I will maintain you as well as he did; and you was not So coy
to me at Nice — my charmer.”. -- -- -- -- Oh |
-- -- The greatest astonishment
imaginable was imprinted on the countenance of every one present — their eyes were all fixed on me — when Lady Di interrupted him, by saying, “Heavens! Mr. Nugent, is it possible } Is she really the misnamed marchioness of Melville, the real miss Belmont I"
“’pon my veracity, Lady Di, the very Same; and a Sweet creature she is — Nobody shall affront her — I will protect.
her -- -- She has been — aye — and still — f
still shall be mine. -- As for Count de
St. Lou, he grew sickle, and forsook her,
with
H UM AN LIFE.
with the Marquis — but I will — pos~i will be constant for ever.”
During this harangue, theconflidt within my poor tortured bosom prevented ut terance~no friendly tears came to my relief — I was the very Statue of Woe.
Various passions seemed to take possession of Mr. Clairville by turns. “Is it possible!” exclaimed he. Then again llarting up in rage, “Sir, ” said he, “you must justify your aspersions on this lady at a proper time.”
“’pon my veracity, Clairville, i’m ready to do it, if the sweet creature denies what I say to be truth.”
I at that moment resumed courage, and, rising from my seat, said“ “me entreat you, Mr. Clairville, that so unfortunate a wretch as I may not be the means of dispute or animosity. I will not, gentlemen and ladies, attempt to deny I was once the happy Adelaide Belmont, supported by tender parents, and a noble family. The Marquis of Melville, at Montpelier; would take no denial to his fuit; but, his uncle being then fur viving, he entreated the marriage ceremony might be performed in private. My dying father, ” said I, weeping, “saw our hands joinecl. I solemnly assert, before all righteous Heaven, that I am his lawful wife, and
C 5 innocent
. THE MUTABII.ITY OK
innocent of the crimes laid to my charge. As for Mr. Nugent, chance conducted him to Nice, where he shocked me with proposals which I refused with horror. ^ Chance conducted him here again, where, being enraged at me for refusing his infamous d.dires, he has, I suppose, determined on this revenge, in hopes, my valuable benefactors, to prevail with you to withdraw your protection, and leave me a prey to poverty.” ~
I could say no more~my voice faulteredo — I was on the brink of fainting — when Mr.'clairville snatched Lady di’s fmel ling bottle, and Mr. Villars bid me resume courage, that he woum protect me.
- Most of the company let down my conduct to the account of female art; and, as peoples virtues in general are less frequently listened to than their vices, I seemed to be chiefly given over, especially by the ladies. Oh! it was impossible all my friends would have deserted me, if my guilt had not been atrocious; they could therefore no longer with decorum countenance me : they were forty a woman of so good family should disgrace it.’* You may imagine, my dear Harriot, there were mnny bitter reflections at my expense. Mrs. Shenkin and some other ladies
 . 35
dies said“ “mull beg to be excused receiving me, as they could never think of taking up the cause of a woman who was openly abandoned by her whole family.”
“By Heaven!” said Mr. Clairville, ‘‘ she has more virtue and more goodness than all you ladies can boast of poss feffing among you. Do you think, if she was actuated by such abandoned principles, that she would have been the humble companion of any insolent lady? No! She might at any time enjoy splendour and infamy — Her lovely form” —
“I swear, Clairville, ” interrupted Nugent, “you are a noble fellow for thus — This vindication of my sweet girl reflects honour upon your generosity“
“” said Mr. Villars, “at present she is under my protection, and shall not be insulted. If she has been guilty, she is to be commended for her reformation, and if innocent, unfortunate indeed Her refusal of Mr. Clairville shows a nobleness of soul, and is a proof of her innocence. Many women by private marriages have been made miserable, by uniting with villains— — may be a victim — her family may be extremely blameable in deferring her, as they have done, and obliging her to a life of dependence — therefore, since she
has
? THE MUTABILITY OP
has no friends lefr, I shall think it my duty, as a Christian, to protect her, spite of the censure of misjudging people.” Then turning to a servant“ “so obliging as to order my carriage, ” said he; “she shall no longer intrude on a company who in her prosperity would have thought themselves honoured by receiving her.”
Mr. Villars’ speech struck an awe opon all present, and for a few moments silenced their severity;; we could hear Lady Clandon and a few others, before we departed, saying“ “innocent, indeed! — The old fellow’s mistress, I suppose.” We were informed the carriage was ready, when Mr. Clairville conducted Mrs. Villars, and Mr. Villars your friend, into it, the former gentleman wishing us a good night. A total silence prevailed till we entered the parlour here I passed the interval in tears. Mrs. Villars broke silence with “Well, I declare, Silena, this is a strange story; upon my word, it’s very comical that I should have a Marchioness for my companion.”
“Cease!! tormenting her, ” cried .Mr. Villars, rousing himself from a reverie. — “1 wish, Miss Belmont, you had not so carefully concealed your story from
my
 . st
my knowledge. I must believe you innocent, from the virtuous sentiments you have displayed since your arrival here. — ’tis strange!! — by all your family !”
I recollected, my dear Harriot, that fortunately your packet of letters was still with me. I therefore proffered them for his perusal, and acquainted him with my accidentally meeting Mrs. Gordon. He accepted them, assured me he would still protect me, and begged I would endeavour to rest after the new perturbation my spirits had undergone,
Mrs. Villars said“ “do, poor thing; they have teizcd you sadly.”
I retired tp my solitary chamber, and have passed the night hitherto in reciting the fresh mortification I have undergone Yet how thankful I should be to Providence that my benefadtofs do not condemn me! I have a safe asylum still, let that encourage me not to despond, nor to despair — rather let it incite a ray of hope to illumine my dejected heart, and dispel the grief that is now too predominant upon it. Afflictions are messengers sent from Heaven to wean us from indulging too much the joys of the world. I will endeavour to think them such
•
As
8
As the posl Lets off early in the morning, I shall close my letter, and very soon write to you again; till when, my dear friend, and at all times, 1 am your affectionate
silbna Howard.
ladydjk Horton to Madame St. Clare.
Shenkin hall
MOST delightful execution, ’pon ho%iir, St. Clare — The fair hypocrite is displayed in the very light I could wish— — proves to be the identical mock marchioness who made Such eclat at Paris, and was disgraced at london~miss Belmont I mean, St. Clare. I played ray cards well with Nugent, and, by 'distributing hopes and Sears to him, at last, for his imaginary benefit, made him Submit to my desire. The time of his departure drawing nigh, he resolved, as the only means of getting her into his power, to disgrace her here: therefore, pretending to be drunk, at the time that he was in Sact Sober, he entered in the midst of the strange concourse of beings assembled on account of clandon’s wedding, and addressed her by her title. I must own, St, Clare, it Surprised even
me
HTTM A N LIFE.
»
me a little to find who she was, and the whole circle of females pronounced her guilty immediately; but did Villars took compassion on her, and made her withdraw : after which sentence was passed on her for being his mistress. But, however, St. Clare, I am happy; as I know the charming Villars, with his refined sentiments, will now, if possible, banish her from his love fick heart. Besides, there are other schemes forming to make him hate her: but adieu! St. Clare; in a week’s time we shall meet; then thou shalt know all the secret purposes of
Your
Di ANA Horton,
s
*
♦
0
X
Miss
»
• »
•»

THF MTTT A BIT TTV Orr
>
Miss Howard to Miss Meynel.
Elyfium place.
HP
X HE morning succeeding the conclusion of my last letter to, you, I went early into the parlour, where I found Mr. Villars alone, with my packet of letters lying on the table by him. He arose, and presented them to me: “I am convinced of your innocence, Madam, ” said he; “these papers are the effusions of virtuous sentiments, and I cannot express how Strong my wishes are that you had met with a happier fate.” “We must resign to the will of Heaven, Sir, ” returned I. “If you and Mrs. Villars continue your approbation, it is all I can now hope.”
“Can nothing be done for yon. Madam i*~suppofe I write to Lady N —
on the Earl of Walters V- -- -- -
“kind Sir, think not of it — attempt it not” — said I, weeping — “their hearts are against me.”
“s^ange !• — Strange !” repeated he. “Something should be attempted.”
Mrs. Villars entered. “Well! how, are you today, my poor girl .•‘ — Mufti
call
 . 41
<
call you Silena, Miss Belmont, or my Lady — Indeed, I think you should have the latter title, as it is your right — Should not she, Mr. Villars ?”
“No, no, my dear, ” said he haslily; “I will give you the reason why, when vve are alone, and I have time to explain it to you.” He then rang the bell for the servants to attend breakfast, and desired her not before them to resume that subject.
In the midst: of breakfast, a servant entered with great marks of terror. Mr. Villars demanded the reason“
“Lord, Sir, doings! Owen the ploughman is just come in, and says one of Mr. clairville’s people told him that as how his master had fought with Mr. Nugent this morning, and thaf one of them or both were dead; and he says. Madam, (nodding his head at me) you was the cause.”
“Good God grant it may not be true!” uttered I, with inexpressible terror, and fell into violent tremblings.
Mr. Villars begged me not to be alarmed; and Mrs. Villars gave me her smelling bottle, when the door opened, and Mr. Clairville entered.
“I am
0

^ I am extremely happy to See you at this juncture, ” Said Mr. Villars, “as we have just received news which alarmed us on your account. — Was it true I Did you encounter Mr. Nugent this morning V
“We did meet, my dear Sir, but were interrupted before anything happened. His insolence and malevolence againsl this lady, who is So deserving of a happier fortune, provoked me beyond measure; but I was not permitted to chastise him as he deserved. I have insisted upon his quitting my house for ever. The day after tomorrow, it seems, 'they all fet off for London.”
“I should have been very unhappy, indeed, ” skid I, curtfying, “if any misfortune, Sir, had happened to you on my account — ■doubly So, as I look on duelling as premeditated murder. Life is the gift of Heaven, and the duellist, by destroying his own or the person he encounters, offends Heaven highly. The consequence ensuing is too dreadful to reflect on.”
“In pity, spare me, ” interrupted Mr. dairville. “I always myself abhorred that practice; but nugent’s villainous aspersions against virtue in distress over powered all former objections. — I wished
to
H TT M A tsj T. T F F. a
to chastise him: we met; he irritated me still more; and, while on the brink of fate, Lord Clandon and his servant in ter posed” ”
returned him thanks for his friendship, and told him I hoped his passion would never get dominion over his rea shn again, and incite him to commit, so rash an action.
A week has now elapsed since this affair happened. Lord Clandon, his Lady, cc. are gone out of the country without taking leave of Mr. Villars, Mrs. Villars, indeed, would go to shen kin hall to bid adieu to Lady Clandon, and fulfilled her intention without acquainting Mr. Villars, or he would not have permitted her, as he Said their behaviour to me was an affront to him, since he chose to protect me. I can perceive great alteration in Mrs. villars’s behaviour to me since that visit. I hope she will soon return to her former good nature, otherwise I am determined not to remain here. Adieu! my dearest Harriot.
4
Miss
1.4.
Mss Howard to Afi/5 Meynel.
’ #
Vlyjium place.
A
tjllas! my beloved Harriot, the evil deiliny which has of late attended your friend still persecutes and compels her to quit this once agreeable retreat! — Where, or with whom, will she next find a shelter Cruel, cruel friends! — why will you permit me thus continually to be the Sport of sortuneah! Harriot, I am unhappy — very unhappy indeed! — but I must nor, will not, repine : time VI ill reconcile me to my Sat.
Mr. vihars’s humanity and friendship for me prompted him to write a letter to his nephew full of encomiums on my behaviour since I had been in his family, and in Strong colours painted my innocence. This letter he ordered Lord Vil
A
lass to show Lady N -- -- --, and use the
most powersul arguments to restore me to her Savour, or to allow an annual stipend to preserve a woman of ray Samily, her own sifter’s child, from a state of dependency. IS his Lordship could not move her compassion, Mr. Villars desired he would go to Lord Walters, and See what could be done with him.
Lord
H TT M A NT T. T F F av
Lord Villars readily complied with his iincle’s requell, but they all agreed in the same answer, and, enraged, Said, “I had chosen infamy and a dependent state, therefore might enjoy it; for they would give themselves no further trouble about me — They did not doubt but in time Mr. Villars would discover my hypocrisy.” Thus am I still deserted. Mr. Villars, when he received Lord \illars’ letter, communicated the contents to me. I had scarce returned ‘him thanks for his kind endeavours of furthering my happiness, when Mrs. Villars rushed into the room, “Fine doings! — fine doings! indeed, Mr. Villars I — A man of your years to keep a mistress under the same roof with your wife! — Fie! Mr. Villars — Yes, Lady Di told me it was So, and Mrs. Jones, and Mrs. Davies, and Mrs Morgan, and Mrs. Owen, and Mrs. Else; aye, and I believe it to be true, cruel, cruel mans otherwise you would never 'let a woman stay here who has been So insamous, and her own relations despife her for her wickedness. — Here nobody will come and See me on her account, and Sol must live at home as if I was as guilty a wretch as herself — Fie! Mr. %hllars! — fie! fie upon it!”
Mr.
{.6
Mr. Villars surveyed her with the greatesl surprise imaginable, and afterwards informed me he never knew her resent anything before, and was very sorry on my account. — But to return :
I fell at her feet weeping, for though I knew she had been instigated by others to this behaviour, knew her simplicity, yet the epithet she bestowed on me was So shocking I could not avoid being .Sensibly wounded. “Let me entreat, worthy madam, ” Said I, “you will be calm : the many favours I have received from you I acknowledge, and it will never be in fny power to repay them; yet you wrong Mr. Villars, - — you wrong me; I Solemnly vow to Heaven 1 am as Sree from the charge brought against me as yourself. — What can I say? — I am one of the most unfortunate of women — I have no home, — no asylum— — friends! Mr. Clairville addresses me, but I am a wife, the Marquis of melville’s wise, therefore am not at liberty. Was I the infamous creature you believe me, Madam, I might reside with him; but I burn with indignation at the thought.~i will quit your house this moment. Madam, if it will afford you ease— — I will.” — - “O Lord! no, by no means, — no, no, by no means; you may stay a few days.
Are
H TT M A M T. T F F
Are you really innocent — Well! I do’nt know, it’s very comical; but indeed Lady Di, Mrs. Owen, and I can’t tell how many, told me you was too great with Mr. Villars; — but, however, if you are innocent, you know I ca’nt live like a hermitefs, for. they think you guilty and will not see you.”
“Very true, Madam, ” returned I; “a few days will drive me from your sight for ever.”
“I am amazed, Mrs. Villars, to See you act in this manner” said he; “where is your usual good nature f — where your accustomed humanity? — You have surprised me beyond measure, by your barbarous behaviour to Miss Howard, while” — —
“Let me beg, my kind benefactor, interrupted I, “that a stop may be put to any disagreement on my account. Mrs. Villars’ opinion of me is that of the world in general, — she is not to blame. I will depart, with per million, in a few days. May I, Madam, (to Mrs. Villars) Stay three or Sour days ?”
“Ah! child, ” said she laughing, “as many weeks if you will. Lords Mr. Villars, I donst mind; but indeed people talk : Jia, ha, ha, (looking at him) indeed
people talk, Mr. Villars.” —
I with
Ak THR MITT A BTT.TTY OF
I withdrew to my chamber, and left them together. At dinner she behaved as usual, and soon after retired.
Mr. Villars then addressed me, “Since the gentry around had taken such an unfavourable opinion of me, he would consent to my departure, as he thought it would conduce more to my peace of mind, ” then generously oftered to settle one hundred a year on me, that I might reside in some place till my friends could be persuaded of my innocence, or till Some event proved more Savourable. You may be Sure, my dear Harriot, I resused this noble offer; in fny critical Situation it could not consistently be accepted. I gave my reasons: be granted they were good but entreated, that is at any time I was distressed for money, I would command his purse. He then laid the sollow ing plan, which is to be adopted.
At Bath resides a gentlewoman, who was Sormerly housekeeper to his Sather: being advanced in years, w ith the help of her friends she Settled hersels in a house, and gets a comfortable livelihood by taking boarders. As she has a great respect: for Mr. Villars, and is happy to oblige him, he advises me to go to her with his recommendation, and remain
.with
\ I
f
I
H TT lu A N I. IF F.
with her till I get a suitable place; as she has an extensive acquaintance, he doubts not but she will procure me one soon. He has written to her, my dear Harriot, and desired she would send a chaise to meet me at— — — the turnpike, to which place he intends himself to conduct; me, thereby to prevent his servants having any opportunity of asking questions of the hired postilions, or any one know • ing where I arn going; a caution very necessary that I may not be further exposed. He likewise has advised me to change my name again, as many from this country come to Bath, and perhaps might prevent my advancement in any family. This screening myself under fictitious names carries fiich an air of guilt, it wounds me sensibly; but my unhappy, my melancholy situation requires it, for if known, who would receive me. Avelini, the name I bore with
Lady N -- -- -- is the one I have nov fixed
on, and which Mrs. White is to receive me by. tomorrow I quit this place 'i Mrs. Villars seems rather in spirits at my departure. I find every one but Mr. Villars and Mr. Clairville Still think me guilty. I have desired the former not to inform the latter where I am going; the reason is obvious. He is a vxrthv man,
D n d
0
o THE MUTABILITY OK
t
and I sincerely wish him happy. The kind Mrs. Gordon will bellow a recommendation on me when 1 need it. I have wrote a full account to her; Mr. Villars has done the same. My spirits are exceedingly depressed.
Ah, my friend, when shall I be at peace!, Cruel Melville! I am sometimes almost tempted to fly to London, and at his feet implore him, at least, to shield me from the dependance on a cruel unfeeling world, and to allow, me Some trifle to wear away my days in solitude; but that idea is quickly dispelled, after thinking on the barbarity he has practised on me : he would only add to it, and spurn me from him. Oh! my dear Harriot! ho w do I persecute you V ith a tedious recital of my misfortunes, — why would you participate them? Why should I wound so susceptible a heart.? Alas! I am every way unhappy. — I must lay aside my pen to relieve both you and your unfortunate ~ — c.
mj/s avtuni to Mss Meynel.
✓
i
Bath.
I
J HAVE been here a week, my dear Harriot, and am quite charmed with Mrs.
white’s
 .
white’s tender and affectionate behaviour. She speaks with great warmth In Mr. villars’s praise, who was chiefly the means of Settling her here. ' Finding me much dejected on my arrival, she Strove with the most courteous ossicioufnefs to amuse me. Efforts so laudable deserved reward : I endeavoured to appear composed. Her house was quite empty, but last night there arrived a lady called Mrs. Colmore, with a man and maid servants;; has taken a house in this neighbourhood, to which she intends going soon: : health being very indifferent, she has sent previously to have it properly aired. She has been a widow, it seems, three years, and, though a middle-aged woman, has given herself up to retirement ever Since the death of her husband. Mrs. White, who is very anxious to serve me, spoke to her in my behalf in hopes she might recommend me to some of her friends. She said she was not fond of ad initting strangers, but she would be glad of my company to tea, with Mrs. White phis afternoon, then she Should be a judge whether I honoured her recortirridr» darion. vse are.going to her, my dear friend, therefore will postpone concluding this epistle, till I can inform you the result of the visit.
D s I return.
I
fe THE MITTABTT TTY OF
I return, much pleased with Mrs. col more, my Harriot. She is a woman of elegant appearance, about five and thirty but has the looks of an invalid. She did me the honour to approve, and said she would make it her businefs to inquire out an agreeable establishment form; likewise entreated! would give her my company constantly, while at Mrs. white’s, for that, being affected with lowness of spirits, she did not choose to be quite, alone if she could avoid it. She blamed herself much for rebelling So against Providence, in giving way to griesfor a misfortune which was unavoidable, but she hoped time would restore her to reason and religion. ~ I am very sorry to find, my dear Harriot, that Lord Lorton proposes Lady
Emma L -- -- -- -- -- for your cousin, but you
need be under no apprehensions about a change in his heart; the object he is attached to is too amiable ever to be eradicated from thence. Perhaps in the end it may be a means of your uncle’s consenting to your union, especially when he finds how strongly i^ord Duncan is attached to
you.
04
«
 ;
you. That such may be the consequence will be the constant prayer of your
Louisa Avelini.
Miss Avelini to Miss Meynel.
burton hill
V
i OU will be surprised at the date, my dear Harriot; but I am now happily fettled with Mrs. Colmore. I was constantly with her at Mrs. white’s. A day or two before we left Bath, she invited me to reside with her, declaring, she had thoughts of it from the first time she saw me, but was willing to be better acquainted before she made proposals;; — a further acquaintance had improved her approbation into real friendship, and she should think herself happy if I would comply. I offered to give her a direction to Mrs. Gordon, but she smiled, and said a character was unnecessary;; I ssiould have one of her, if I chose to write for it. You may be sure I declined it for fear of offending; but yet I should be glad to be acquainted with her family, for she is quite a stranger to Mrs. White.. However, I am not in a situation to be
D 3 nice,
«
I THF M HT A RTT.TT V HP
nice, and her manner bespeaks her a woman of birth and breeding.
Burton hill is situated about five or six miles from Bath. Mrs, Colmore seldom ventures out but in a carriage, and then quite shut up, for she fancies every breeze - brings death with it. Poor woman! it is from her extreme sensibility she is thus susceptible of a foctness even inibccoming a vvcrnan. She frequently weeps, and recites anecdotes of her dear Mr. Colmore, till she is in hyflericks. It is a great nstsfortune thus to lose the command of reason;; one cannot help beholding such marks of her tenderness with admiration. When in tolerable spirits file is extremely agreeable, and naturally of a lively disposition. I sincerely wish she may soon get the better of her griefs. Adieu, my dear friend; I hope to hear more pleasing news from you soon.
Yours,
Louisa Avelini.
I
Lord
H TT M A N T. T F K. rr
%
Lord Villars to Lord Duncan.
Bath.
0 H! I could execrate all womankind, Duncan. There is no cure for my disappointment and affliction. — I have been deceived by a phantom that took the form of virtue to allure me, and now ray eyes are open to her perfidy. — — - Strange feelings! strange infatuation! Oh, Charles! from henceforward life will be more intolerable, more infuppdrtable than ever. —
1 shall never meet with a woman who can put on the semblance of an angel as she did, or jri reality have the charms she parentlfpokekcd. — Why did I credit her I ' — How coiildi imagine her friends would all desert her, if she vvas not iimvorthv their countenance? Why were my senses so easily captivated by her beauteous form, and those refined Sentiments which delicacy itsels appeared to inspire? Lady Di Horton attacked my heart without dis guise, but her known levity made it disclaim her : I resused to visit her in London, though she by repeated messages requested it. My Soul was absorbed by the deceitsul, too lovely Silena, — Avelini, or whatever appellation she chuses now to
D 4 take,
5
take; for she changes her name as often as her abode. To be the dupe of an infamous woman! -- -- -- Oh! Charles, I shall
go dislracted. ^my Uncle too.was so egre gioussy deceived in her, he recommended her to the worthy Mrs. White at this ace, and under the feal of secrecy informed me of it. Willing again to behold the idol of my heart, immediately on re cfipt of his letter I repaired hither, resolv ing to take care, when she heard of a proper place, to inquire minutely into the character of the family, ci came to Mrs. v/hite’s, who, poor good woman! with joy informed me, the amiable Miss Avelini was happily fettled with a lady at Burton hill. That Mrs. Colmore
4
had lodged with her, by which means they became acquainted, and were as intimate as if known to each other a hundred years. She thought they must have been a little acquainted before too, she said, though neither would own it. Miss had talked much of being careful to whom she went, but neither she or Mrs. Colmore inquired after each others character (well planned you see, Charles): they soon went off to Burton Hill, and the dear young Lady, she said, was very grateful to her, for her kindness, as she rerrned k.
I found
U TT h/f A XT T T rr F rh
I found Mrs. Colmore was an entire stranger in the neighbourhood, and determined to pay them a visit next day en passant, with a message from Mrs. Gordon, that I might reconnoitre a little, and learn something of this ftranger’s family.
I returned to the inn, where I heard voices next room to me. Listening, I could hear these expressions; Lovely creature! after so many months absence I shall be hardly able to command my senses at the fight.” Then something followed I could not hear: after which, “Be sure, said he, those fellows have the .carriage ready at half past ten; she promised faithfully not to disappoint me, and without fail would be at the garden gate by eleven. — My dear ver neule, order supper immediately.' How little did I expect such happiness— — thought every moment an age in cruel absence!” Verneule'departed, and all was filent.
I imagined it was some happy loveir arrived at the period of his wishes. My different fate, condemned to drag on through life a hopeless passion, introduced gloomy reflections; and I retired to bed not at all disposed for sleep. When Dumont attended me in the
D ^ morninnt.
? THE mittabttssty OF
morning, ^ I inquired if he knew who had been in possession 'of the next room to that in which I slipped the preceding evening.
Fie answered he was ignorant who it was. -
Curiosity was rather predominant; I ordered him to bid the Landlord attend me, that 1 might gain information.
My commands were obeyed; my landlord entered. I began my interrogations, and was almost petrified with the account he gave. It run thus. Count St. Lou was the person I overheard. 7 mrs. Colmore is a woman of ill fame, whom Nugent consented to maintain jas a woman of fasliion in retirement, to countenance Miss Avelini, who would not otherwise risk the loss of her reputation, but was willing privately to be his mislrefs; therefore he was to pafs for colmore’s nephew : but Count St. Lou coming to Ba till, some letters passed, and she consented to go off with him. They actually did go last night, and left her companion and lover enraged at being thus deserted So ended his detail of this infamous affair. The same news was communicated to Mrs. White; and Nugent, out of revenge, has published that Miss Avelini as no other than the feigned Marchioness
rr TT tv/r A KT T 1 n F ro
nefs of Melville, and has escaped from him to her old love.
Infamous beyond belief as I find her to be, I cannot eradicate her from my heart. How powerful is genuine love! Philosophy cannot subdue, Reason cannot repel it.
I abhor her vices, but adore her in the fimilitilde she appeared firsl to my foon wondering eyes. Let me hear from you, my friend. Happy Duncan! the woman of your choice is deserving of it. You need never blush for confessing your passion. She has beauty, sense,, virtue. Never fear, Charles; your father must own the Solidity of your judgement in a partner for lise — no trivial afskir, my' friend, in' this dissipated age, which is hashly advancing to the luxurious Slate that proved the downsall of Rome. But the present agitated Situation of my mind disqualifies me for moralising. I can only add, I am
Your unsortunate
. /
Villars.
4
From
4
I
io
Prom the Same to the Same.
Bath,
i’ri f
WAS extremely displeased, my dear Charles, at your levity in the beginning of your last concerning the charming Avelini, thinking you was feriousiy advising me to gain her for a mistress— — more so, as you are well acquainted with my sentiments: : a ray of hope dawned when you informed me of your harriot’s distress upon the news in town of her adelaide’s elopement, and further, the note she honoured me with in favour of her friend. ' but then I reflected that she might have imposed on your lovely cousin, and was still miserable. To be thoroughly convinced, I resolved to take your advice, and, if possible, bribe the truth from Colmore. Nugent is gone to London; Mrs. Colmore is to follow in a few days; I therefore waited on her, told her my name; Said, for particular reasons, 1 should be glad to know how long she had known Miss Avelini, c. then, putting on a gay air, offered to reward her for her intelligence.
“Why, my Lord, as to that part of the story” ” she, “it’s of little purpose > if you wish to see her, I can
inform
 . sit
Inform you where she now is, ”
“Where
“Oh! the premium — the premium, my Lord.”
“What is your demand ?”
“Why, Nugent has used my rather feurvily, therefore i’ve done with him — Let me fee~excufe me now, my Lord,
I musl consider a little. -- tomorrow
morning I shall be at Bath, and without fail will call and settle this affair with your Lordship — You may be assured I will not disappoint you, for my own fake.”
I depended on her word, and am now, Duncan, in immediate expectation of her arrival.
\
Colmore disappointed me, and Sent me word particular businefs prevented her — that she could not find time to Speak to me for three days. I supposed she had Sent to consult her agent, theresore went to Burton Hill, but she positively would not See me. She has now Sent word that she will come in hals an hour. She is better than her word — She is arrived.
I am
THE MUTA rtt.ity of
i
I am happy and miserable by turns — I must immediately fly to cth^f^iies of my angelic Adelaide ~what a devil is
Lady Di? -- -- -- But I Ishi So incoherent,
Charles, thou wilt think me mad. Let me write methodically, if I can.
Colmore entered, with a letter in her hand, and anger in her contenance. “Nugent has flung me finely, indeed, ” Said she; “but I will be revenged on hirn. For fifty pieces, my Lord, I will inform you of everything concerning Miss Avelini.”
“Why, if is uncertain whether I shall gain by your information; twenty is all I will give, ” said I, carelessly.
She agreed to it, and proceeded.
“T think I may depend on your honour, my Lord, for payment; theresore I will begin — The history of my lise, or connexions, besore this affair with Mr. Nugent, will not answer the present purpose to recite. He came to me about the time miss Avelini first went to Bath, and, laying out the plan which has beeri put into practice, desiied I would execute it, to get her into his power, whom otherwise he could not make comply
with
H TT M A NT T. T F R.
i
!
with his wishes. As I had been an acs

tress, I could personate any character, therefore he fixed on me for an assistant, and if i/ishcceeded would give me two hundred pounds. I agreed to it; Burton hill was taken, and I prepared to fet out, when I received a note from a lady of fashion, a frierid pf Nugent, desiring to speak to me before I went. Much surprised at the invitation, I immediately complied with it. She received me with a friendly shake by the hand.
‘ I am acquainted with the business you
are going upon, my dear Mrs- -- -- -- -- -- --, *
she; ‘ but may I place confidence in you, for I have a favour to lequesl V “You may certainly command anything, Madam, ” said I, “not inconsistent with my friend nugent’s arrangement.”
‘ Mankind deceive us, my dear Mrs.
-- -- said she, with a smile, ‘ and vve
should, in turn, deceive them. Will you — will you, ’ repeated she, looking at me fbedfaslly, ‘ enter into my plan — May! place confidence in you.? — You shall not go unrewarded, and the nobleman in whose cause I would engage your services, i’m sure, is very generous.”
“Oh! Madam, you may depend on my secrecy and obedience, ” returned I.
“In
4
“In short, my Lord, after a few more promises of compliance, she unbosomed herself. Her scheme was to the following effect: :
“Being unaquainted herself with Coriiit St. Lou, and wanting, for particular reasons, to put Miss Avelini into his power again, who had once been has mistress, she begged I would wait on him with an information of the scheme Nugent had in train, and tell him, if he still wished for the possession of Miss Belmont, to be at or near Bath in readiness, where, for a handsome gratuity, I would surrender her up to him.
“I waited on the Count, who was in raptures when I informed him of my kind intention, and promised to reward me. Returning, with stn account of my success to the lady, she presented me a hundred pound note, and entreated I would conceal her knowledg of this affair from every one. You know the manner I got her into my power. Count St Lou was at a loss for a house in some
N
retired place to convey her to: on inquiry, I found that— — was not at too great a distance, and had been uninhabited many years on account of an idle report of its being visited by apparitions. I persuaded him to desire the
loan
 . SF
loan of it from the owner, vifio would with great pleasure surrender it for a time, in hopes of its regaining credit. He happily succeeded, my Lord, and
sent servants there to wait his arrival.
• %
In the mean time, he remained at Bath incog, two or three days before nugent’s arrival at Burton Hill. I talked to Miss Belmont of a nephew I expected, of whom my pretended Mr. Colmore was very fond. She happened to be in my .dressing-room when he came, and I sent for her down. The agony she experienced at sight of him was visible, but I overlooked it; and he, seemingly to carry on the deceit, addressed her as an entire Slranger. She soon found means to withdraw. I followed her to her chamber, and found her in tears. Counterfeiting surprise, I demanded the reason; she would not answer; when, affecting to be moved with her dislrefs, I on my knees entreated her pardon; owned that I had long had an illicit amour with Mr. Nugent, and was subservient to his pleasures; that to oblige him I had got her into my power, but that her amiable manner and innocence had made me repent of it; therefore, if she would absolve me in the eyes of Mr. Nugent from being privy to her escape, 1 would
that
THF. mtttabtr.tty OF
that night fet her free. She returned me thanks with tears of joy and a thousand blessings. I then told her I would writ to Bath, and order a poft chaise to be at the garden gate at eleven at night to convey her to Mrs. white’s. It is impossible to express what gratitude she displayed. I then wrote to Count St. Lou, who came at the appointed period, but rode at a distance on horseback till he Should find a convenient opportunity to enter the chaise aster she was in it I made her write a note, as if to me, and leave it on her table, informing me she had decyphered my character, and happily found means to escape from mint and Mr. nugen.t’'s power. Accordingly the next morning, when Mr. Nugent anc I had got to the parlour for breakfast a Servant was Sent to miss avelini’s room wfio returned, asserting she was not there I then made my colleague go up witl me, and we found the note on the table which he read, to his very great mortisi cation. He stamped, raved, and blamec me for not taking greater care. New came from some country fellows the] saw Miss Avelini go off with Count St Lou from Burton'hill. Some of th count’s servants, in parting from the inn had divulged it, and thus it became pub
lie
 . 67
lie. Out of revenge for his disappointment, Nugent exposed her as much as possible. Giving me a hundred pound note, he left me, swearing, that, as has scheme had mifearried, he would pay me no more. You came; I then wrote to know if he would pay the other hundred. He positively refused;; for his mean behaviour, I was determined to gratify your Lordship.” Thus ended this infamous woman’s narration.
“Pray, Mrs: Colmore, was not this lady of fashion Lady Di Horton Said I.
“Oh! my Lord, ” Said she, “I mull not expose a lady of quality — she bound me to secresy — But my hopes from her are at an end — It was her Ladyship, indeed.” “Diabolical woman !” exclaimed I.
“Ha! ha! ha” Said she; “a little innocent friendship for St. Lou, and perhaps too great a tendrejje for Nugent. “
“Very true, ” returned I, Seeming to credit her. “I am obliged to you, Mrs. Colmore, for information. — You think, then, I may certainly find miss Belmont
at -- -- Park“
“certainly, ” Said she.
aster paying her the destined Sum, she departed, to pursue her infamous practises, and I sat down to write to thee, Charles. I have ordered my carriage
and
68
4
and servants to be ready. If possible, I will in disguise see the lovely Adelaide, and know from her own lips if she will trull herself under my protection back to Mrs. white’s. — 'I have ten thousand unspeakable anxieties concerning her — Wlio knows- -- -- -- adieu 1
Yours,
Villars.
’ w>k
jt/yr Avelini to Miss Meynel.
Bath,
r
L T is irnppffible to express my sensibility' ' your kindness to me, my dear Harriot. Your interpositions in/^my favout to the Vv'orthy Lord Villars have had the desired effect, and I am reslored in my innocence to Mrs. White again. Lliave Suffered much for putting myseis under the protection of a Stranger; it will make me more cautious for the Suture., The insamous Colmore acted her part with Such adroitness, that I had no Suspicion of her not being the person she pretended. Besides, I had no idea that any man would give himself So much trouble and expense to ruin the innocence of an
unfortunate
4
M a M A N LI FE. 6o
V
.infortunate young woman. Before Mr. Nugent arrived, she talked of a nephew,
)f whom she was in daily expectation. Good God! my Harriot, how greatly was [ shocked when it proved to be Nugent! ft^rtfully pretending to conceal his knowledge of me from Colmore, he addressed me as a ft ranger. I trembled exceedingly, and withdrew to my chamber;, there I burst into a flood of tears, and concluded that my protection from Mrs. Colmore was at an end. In the midst of my anxiety she entered — seemed surprised at ^ finding me weeping — then changed her tone, and at my feet demanded pardon for having inveigled me. With well feigned tears she lamented having become a victim to her unhappy passion for Mr. Nugent.; owned that, rather than bear the unspeakable misery of losing sight of him for ever, she had sofar debased herself as to be the pander of his intrigues with others; but that my artless and innocent manner struck her so much, she would run the hazard of displeasing her dear Nugent for ever, should it come to his
knowiedge, rather than injure me. -- -- -- -1
with eagerness seized hold of the first hint of escaping, and asked her if I could not .go that night. She said, yes.; that she would write letters to Bath, and order a
chaise
oath MUTABILITY OF
chaise for me at eleven at night; but (he
had one favour to beg, which was, that I
would write a note, and leave it behind me.
importing I had found means to escape,
and happily should be out of her power
before that reached her hands. Such a «
note would, she said, exculpate her in the eyes of her darling Nugent. I complied, and wrote the billet. Night advanced: I was in great anxiety, left Nugent should detect us; but, with her^consent, complaining of a headache, I kept my room. Luckily I brought but a Sew clothes from Bath. She told me I might pack them in my portmanteau, and take them with me. At eleven o’clock we carried it. with us into the garden, and, going to the back gate, Sound a chaise in waiting. She Sent one of the men to fetch my luggage from the garden : and a man wrapped up in a great coat, on horse baclc, came to her. It was So very dark, I could not distinguish his Features. He whispered her, and seemed to put something into her hand. She then turned to me, “This is the tnan of the inn, who is owner of the chaise” ” she; “I could depend on him, therefore begged he would come to see yoa safe, in cafe you should be pursued.” “1 am much obliged to both you and him, ” returned 1; “may you end your days in
virtue
 . 71
virtue and happiness: : will find, Madam, there is no happiness independent of virtue.” She thanked me, and, pressing my hand, said she would hasten back to Mr. Nugent, and keep him in converfa tion.~away she flew.
I got into the chaise. It was very disagreeable to travel alone on so dark a night, but the Snortnefs of the way made' me dispel fear. The horses seemed to fly: the time 1 thought must be elapsed that we might have got to Bath — I grew uneasy— — chaise stopped in a bye road, and a gentleman, descending from a horse, entered it — I cried out in terror~the postilions heeded not, but went on as hard as possible — I imagined it was Nugent, therefore began to upbraid him, and entreat that he would fet me free, when I immediately knew him to be Count St, Lou it almost overpowered my Senses“
“ever adorable adelaidetelmont, recover your fear and surprise” ” he;
it is not Nugent, it is your faithful St.’ Lou, who still adores you, and has by colmore’s means rescued you from that
man’s power.”
“And whither are you conducting me, ray Lord ?” said I.
“To a faf^pl ace, my charmer, where I hope you will listen to roy vows —
vows,
h2
vows, Adelaide, which are founded on esleem and honour. You surely cannot condemn me, lovely Miss Belmont; your friends approve my fuit; and, notwithstanding your affair with Melville, I am still willing to give you my name and
fortune.”
Being so unhappily situated, my dear Harriot, for once, contrary to my conscience, I endeavoured to make use of dissimulation. “Why, my Lord, ” returned I, “did you not at Mrs. white’s make me acquainted with the continuance of your favourable sentiments.? Did you imagine I could only be gained by force f Alas! you do not yet know me; I can never be compelled to give my hand: add not another wound to my fame; you only heighten my resentment. Time, and your endeavours when I was ray own mistress, might have performed wonders.”
“Ah! Madam, forgive me, ” returned he; “I dare not trust you; a few hours will convey us to our destined abode, and there I hope to retrieve all; you will accept my hand and become Countess St. Lou. — I dare not trust you from my sight; indeed, my angel, I dare not.”
“Neither will I proceed further, ” returned I, striving to open the chaise door.
He
 . 73
He prevented it, and held me fast: : I struggled, when fear, anxiety, and horror increasing, I fainted.
As soon as I recovered my senses, it was daylight, and I found we were in a small park; the chaise almost stew, and we arrived at a small castle, whose very looks denounced the miferiesof despair: : assisted me out of the chaise, and we entered a hall of immense height and proportionate gloom, which conveyed an additional horror to the soul. We were received in a parlour not more calculated to cheat the spirits, by a woman who seemed to officiate as a housekeeper; she brought tea and coffee immediately, and said she had prepared w'ell aired beds. I insisted that I would not retire to any chamber — on my knees entreated the Count to let me depart, and said I w'oiild then receive his visits at Mrs. white’s; I said anything, in short, that I might deliver myself from his power; but in vain. Being quite exhausted, he and the woman urged me to take Some refreshment. At last I complied, in hopes of keeping the family up, to escape from hig presence. I at length agreed to retire to a chamber, where, after locking myself in, I in my clothes threw' mysels on the bed to rest my wearied limbs. At' three
E in
ria THE MUTABILITY'OF
in the afternoon the woman came to beg I would rise to dinner. I told her I didnot choose any, — she answered, that the Count insisted on my coming down, or he would come to my chamber, to avoid which, I was obliged to acquiesce. My soul was in agonies — Could it be otherwise?? was in the power of an infamous man, and had no means to extricate myself, nor any friend that I knew who was able to relieve me. i shed tears all the time he was dining, and though he tried all in his power to make me taste Some of the delicacies he had provided, I took only a bit of bread and half a glass of wine, after which I begged leave to retire, but was not permitted. He then made use of the most forcible arguments to persuade me to accept his hand. I assured him, in the most solemn manner, I could not bellow: myself on him, as I was wise to Melville. He said, granting that to be the cafe, the Marquis had deserted me; — I could not prove my marriage, therefore it would be the wisest method to accept his offer, as such a measure bid fair for re eftablishing ray character, and putting a period to ray misfortunes. Ah! my dear friend, haw. poignantly did I suffer while this conversation continued— — last he grew impatient,
 .
patient, and said he would make himself master of my person, if I would not consent to be his wife; adding, he could not live without me. My terror increased ~ locked myself in my room at night, and, not daring to undress, I threw myself on the bed,, and pasted the night in prayers, tears, and misery unspeakable. The days he forced me to stay with him, and all means of escaping were impossible. Often I iised to sit an hour at a time without answering him. Pen and ink one day being on the table, I marked down the following reflection, which then obtruded itself:
‘‘ Harkl the shrill trumpet Sounds! Our God appears triumphant, and his effulgence makes Nature shrink. Myriads of angelsdiover round his throne, — the elements in flames confess his power; ~ the terrestrial globe dissolves, and Sinners Sain would flee from his dirpleafure. Warned by that faithful monitor, imperial conscience, they anticipate their doom, and trace with shame the retrospect of their past; conduct The virtuous with ecstasy behold his glory, while he receives them to eternal bliss and never fadingjoys. Why then should deceitful wicked pleasures allure our hearts, and tempt them from the way that leads to happiness and
E 2 Heaven?
-76 THE MUTAETI.ITV OF
Heaven? Oh! why forego all heavenly hopes and wander thus astray Though narrow is the path the virtuous tread, yet easy the ascent to willing minds who will by grace and faith be led. To them who strive for mastery, a calm tranquillity succeeds, spite of misfortune’s dire train of woe. Flappy earnest: of sublime eternal joys! Who then wmuld fink in earthly fading pleasure i Who grasp a moment’s bliss for misery eternal
I had wrojte thus Sar when the Count siiatched the paper from me. “Pardon me, miss Belmont, ” Said he, “I must peruse the effects of your pen.”
“The Subject is too Serious to claim YOU attention, my Lord, ” returned
I
aster having read it. “Cm a woman of your sense, my lovely Miss Belmont, ” Said he gravely, ‘‘ be really so fascinated by priestcraft, and place faith on revealed religion ‘‘ Does your Lordship acknowledge the existence of a God?” returned I warmly“
“certainly, Miss Belmont; but a Superior Being who bestowed passions on us, would never punish us for making use .of those pkafures Nature points out.”
You
HITMAN T. T F F. n
m T
You had better made use of the word inftinfl, my Lord; for vice levels mankind with brutes. Do you approve rapine and murder as pleafiires, which Nature (as you term it) points out to mankind
“Oh! horrible, Madam! No, certainly, Nature never points that out; it is madness causes the execution of it.”
‘‘ So the vices your Lordship has no taste for, you term madness. Ah! my Lord, how you deceive yourself! The premeditated murderer proceeds as calmly on with his design, as does your Lordship endeavour to effect my ruin.”
His opinion on revealed religion is too shocking to repeat, my dear Harriot, — I entreated him to drop the subject;; was with difficulty I could prevail: the inspired writings he rejected entirely, and called them tales to amuse children and weak minds. ^
Tasked him if he thought it inconsistent with Omnipotence to perform the miracles contained in Scripture.
He agreed it was not, but that a Superior Being would not degrade himsels So much, as to be Samiliar with man in his present state, and di Sallowed the divinity
E 3 of
t
%
^8 THE MITT A BILITY OF
<
of our Saviour; and likewise the whole Scripture.
I asked him, “Why, as he believed in a God, he should think it inconsistent that power should reveal himself to man, and point out the means of adoring and pleasing him, with proper laws to bind Society ?”
Such a revelatioff’ he again said“ “unnecessary; that nature and instinct were undoubtedly designed our guides, and felf prefervatton would make us convinced laws were rieceffary to general order.’*
'“Ah! my Lord, but though felf prefervation after the fall, might convince man laws were necessary; yet, without so divine a lawgiver, Such wise ones could not have been instituted.”
“Well, well, ” said he, “my lovely Miss Belmont, you are rather hard on me; perhaps if you would receive my hand, you might gain a convert.” He pursued the hateful subject of his passion. Thus in wretchedness did I spend my days at, ......park.
I had one evening retired to my chamber at ten o’clock, under a pretence of illness, and sat enjoying gloomy reflections, when Molly the chamber maid entered
 . 70
( i
tered with joy in her countenance. Looking behind her, to be certain nobody was near, she exclaimed, “Upon my word. Madam, there is a woman below can tell fortunes purely, — you can’t think what things she has told me: I am to be very rich, and married in half a year; and she begged me to tell you, that for a bit of silver she will tell you everything that ever did or can happen to you. Do, Madam, try her; indeed she does it cleverly.
I could scarce tetain my countenance at the girl’s earnestness, and with a smile told her, that I expected no'promising futurity in this world; therefore would dispense with the good woman’s attendance. Molly was disconcerted and retired, but soon returned, and begged she might introduce the woman, who was very urgent to see me: As most of the strolling tribe are very artful, and addicted to what they are pleased to call gallantry, and still more to that idol, gold, a ray of hope entered my benighted heart, on, the fuggestion, that bribery might effect my escape. ‘‘ Let her approach, Molly, ” returned I with a smile. “Yes, Madam” said she, “but you must not be afeavd of being alone with her, for she does not disclose her skill before any
E 4 witnesses.
f
oath mutability OF
witnesses. She muff have you all to herself -
“! very well, ” returned I, “but be sure to remain in the next room.”
The Sybil soon after appeared, Molly retiicd, and an awkward courtesy succeeded from the Oracle. I was surprised to find she remained Silent, as those people are very voluble, and therefore began to question her how long she had pursued her present vocation. A voice, not altogether unknown to me, answered“ “time, Madam; but do you wish your present situation to undergo an alteration? Perhaps I may prognosticate some disagreeable events which lie concealed in the womb of time. — You wish not to be separated from Count St. Lou — his views are honourablehe will marry you ?” “I cannot marry him, good woman” returned I, “as I am already married; were I not, his principles and sentiments are not calculated to raise any esteem in my breast.”
“Ah! Madam, ” said she, “will you permit me to display your future fate?”
'“It is out of your power, ” good woman, ” returned I; “the mysteries of futurity are hid from all human foresight! Shall feeble mortals then pretend to fa
thorr
 . 8r
thorn them? It was not for such a purpose I permitted you to enter my apartment. I was well convinced your associates have art fussicient to delude weak minds. — I am an unwilling prisoner here, ” said I, weeping; “a longer stay may be of fatal confecjuence, as I am in the hands of a man who disregards all laws,, divine and human. asliil; me, dear good woman, in escaping, and I will recom pence you with ten guineas. What say you V
“Ah! Madam, ” returned ftie, “my life shall Sbe spent in your service ~ me;, — I am not what I seem.” “You are not, ” said I; — “Who are you then ?” I stared hard at her, and bringing the candle nearer, found, to my great surprise, it was Lord Villars.
“Is it possible!” exclaimed I in the greatest palpitation imaginable — “Is it really Lord Villars I see V
“It is, Madam; pardon my disguise; it was necessary for me to intrude into your pre fence to be certain whether a release would be agreeable to you, and to concert means for your escape. Mrs. White came to * ^ « with me, and is
there waiting at the Inn, to know the result of my visit, and return back with
E 5 you
0.. t‘xjtra/ftt*t'at?tttt‘'vrkc>
you to Bath if our stratagem succeeds, as I thought a woman of reputation being with you Would he eligible. I have not time to difclose more at present” ” he. “How shall we proceed, Madam I ”
“My Lord” said I, “it is many miles from * * * *; by what means did you reach me V
“On hoisseback, Madam; Dumont waits with the horses at the outside of the gate now.”
‘‘ Is it impossible, my Lord, for me to go with you tonight” returned I“ “credulity may be easily caught, and there is no one elfe to fear.”
We then concerted that Molly should be called, and desired secretly to attend us to the end of the park, where we were to dig for a pot of money and jewels, which was to be divided among us.
The girl, who was quite as weak as we could wish, readily consented. At twelve o’clock, after locking my chamber, we descended through a fubterraneoiis passage attend ed by the girl to the park; — to carry on the farce, we took a spade with us; it was extremely cold, but we walked fast, till at last we faw’ Dumont
with
tttttv/taxt T TTTT?
with the horses. How our hearts bounded!
“Now, Molly, ” said Lord Villars,
“take your choice; you must; either be left tied to this gate, or go behind this
man to -- -- -- --, where you shall receive five
guineas for your trouble.’.’
“Oh! Lord, ” said she, trembling, for god’s sake let me go wdth you, for I shall be killed if I remain here.” Accordingly she was seated behind Dumont, and I behind Lord Villars; we galloped as fast as possible to -- -- -- -- : Molly
begged to remain with me, and entered the house with Dumont, while my Lord threw aside his disguise.
Mrs. White received me with the greatest joy, and heartily congratulated me on ray escape. Lord Villars then entered. We took some refreshment, and retired to rest.
The next day we arrived at Bath. Words were insussicient to express my gratitude to Mrs. White and to Lord Villars, especially the latter, who behaved ' in a very delicate manner. Ah! Harriot, it is necessary for my peace of mind to be ever banished from his presence. I in treated, as a favour, he would visit Mrs. ' White seldom as possible while I remained there; as the world had already too
rnnrfi
4
much apparent reason to misjudge my conduct from my misfortunes. He assured me, however unhappy such an absence must make him, he would comply with it; and he keeps his word. How Sew of his Sex are equal to Such Severe trials of principle under similar circumstances !■ — Surely it cannot be criminal in me to say this! — I should be ungrateful not to acknowledge his merit; Mrs. White does all in her power to exculpate me from the seeming guilt of my flight with the Count. The people here divide in parties on my account; some imagine me innocent, Some otherwise: : as [ think it will be prejudicial to this worthy woman for me to remain with her, I am determined soon to quit Bath. My intention is to board for three or four months at some farm, that I may if possible regain my tranquillity. By that time, perhaps, Violetta and Melville may be parted : if So, I will throw myself at his feet, and entreat him to save me for the future from dependence. If he will not listen to me, I must again seek for a suitable retreat.
I intend, in this rural concealment, to take the name of Mont; it is part of my maiden name, therefore I have a right to it: and, as I have been unfortunate in
pasting
H UM AN LIFE. 8c
for a single woman, J will acknowledge having a husband abroad, who has left me rather distressed— — story similar to my real fate. Adieu! my beloved friend; 1 will write soon again : at present I must lay down the pen; and I suppose you are weary of reading my long epistlc, therefore again farewell.
Miss Avelini to Miss Meynel.
Bath.
Jl Omorrow, my ever dear Harriot, I quit the kind, the tender Mrs. White; and half an hour since I took a final leave of the too amiable Lord Villars. My tears still flow' — pardon my guilty confession — they are the tears of friendship — the tears
of -- -- -. Oh! Harriot, it is necessary,
highly necessary, we should part for ever — Absence will alleviate our mutual distress, and put a period to an esteem which interviews would heighten. I will write no more on the subject— — him my memory — never name him — and, lest I should being grateful, become guilty of ingratitude. The solitary journey of life, which, if calculated by years, to me, who am but young, must be of long duration, seems dreadful. Alas! Harriot, I must
lay
86
lay aside my pen — Why will you claim a wretch’s correspondence, who can only throw a gloom upon your happier destiny!
I am going, my dear Harriot, to a friend of Mrs. white’s, who resides at
Howel wood, in -- -- -- -- shire. Her name
is Hall. Her husband farms a small es tate of his own. She is a very amiable woman, lam told, and has often wished for an agreeable boarder, as company, the place being very solitary (the more suitable to my wishes). Mrs. White wrote, to ask her if she continued in the same mind, and spoke in favour of me. She soon returned^an answer, that she should be very happy to receive me: Thither I am going my dear friend, under the appellation of Mrs. Mont.
Perhaps it may be an improper scheme to exhaust part of my very small remains; but next summer I must endeavour either to address the marquis’s compassion, or through the inquiries of this family introduce myself somewhere. What will become of me 1 My spirits are oppressed beyoiad expression. When will my misfortunes arrive at a period! Lord Villars’ complaints, too, have affected me muck Though he derived no hopes from my friendship, he said, he would cherish me
in his remembrance. Oh! ' let him be
happy
HUMANLIFE. 87
happy, righteous Heaven! — let him obliterate from his memory the unhappy wretch that at present is doomed to dis turb his peace — let him believe me unworthy esleem — anything, sooner than be thus wretched! Entreat Lord Duncan to use all the power he is master of to make his friend forget me. It is criminal for us not to strive against a passion that must offend Heaven. Oh! I will tear him from my heart, or die in the attempt. Adieu!
Lori/villars to Lori Duncan.
Bath.
JL H E lovely Adelaide has left me,
Duncan, almost in a state of distraction. The more reason I find to admire her, the more miserable I am. She has lest me to drag on a miserable existence in endless banishment. besore her departure, I went to wish her happiness. I could not command my passion— — could not help ' uttering complaints at my unhappy Sat — I could not help Saying I adored her, hopeless as I knew it to be, and expected only in return a friendship, which the most rigid virtue could not condemn — that my Sentiments for her were Sounded on the
purity
88
purity of her manners, and caused an es teem never to be erased“
“my Lord, ” answered she, blushing, and the tears Standing in her lovely eyes, “why will you permit your reason to be so overpowered by a sentiment, which if encouraged, must render you culpable I — Forget me, my Lord — my misfortunes have been sufficiently numerous already without undergoing still more~the reflection of a perfon’s being urihappy on my account, to whom I am under such obligations, must embitter the little share of tranquillity I might
otherwise enjoy -- -- Promise me that you
will obliterate from your memory her whose prayers shall always be for your happiness, it will afford me the greatest pleasure that 1 can in my present circumstances feel.”
My answer was, Charles, “that I was sorry she requested the only thing I found impossible to grant — that I could not allow it a deviation from the path of rectitude to esteem one so amiable — my friendship for her must continue to the period of my existence.”
She was extremely affected; entreated me to leave her; and, if possible, comply with her request — her last request. She hoped we should never meet more i
and
HUMANLIFE. 8o
and that absence, and a more agreeable object, would Six ray happiness. So saying, she hastily retired — she forsook me for ever.
The distraction, the pangs, the horror; I experienced, imagine if you can, Charles Dreadful — Dreadful! indeed!
lam going to London — Yet what shall I do there, Duncan? — The hurry and dssiipation going forwards there is hateful to me — I cannot plunge into folly. I come, Charles, to pour out my affliction in thy friendly bosom— — sometimes hear from your beloved Harriot the situation and health of her too amiable and unfortunate friend. Adieu! In three days I shall see you.
'Villars.
Mrs. Mont to Miss Meynel.
howel jvood.
X HIS house, my dear Harriot, is So Situated, that it increases the gloom which I was fondly persuaded it would in some measure remove; yet peaceful minds might approve it. It stands at the entrance of a wood several miles long; pleasant meadows, with a pretty rivulet, mix in the prospect; but Howel wood is
my
?o
s,
my favourite walk — there I enjoy a lux uiy of sorrow— — I mieditate on the folly and guilt of not resigning myself with Submission and chearsulness to the dispensation of Providence. I hope the combat will end, as I wish, in a humble resignation to that Being who ordains all things for the wiseft purposes. How stubborn is Srail nature! how hard to be conquered by reason! and how are our two wills constantly at war with each other I
Mrs. Hall is a very agreeable sensible woman; and I think the time I shall Spend here will be passed as well as is consistent with the painsul feelings I have upon me. The parsonage house is about a mile off, which is their nearest and chies place of visiting. The clergyman, whose name is Wollar, is a very worthy man, and has a decent, good-natured, notable woman for his wise. At the Sarthest extent of this wood resides, in the Summer, a Mrs. mor daunt: Report Says she is an old lady of excellent qualities. Mrs. Hall is much with her when Mrs. Mordaunt is there, and Says my additional company will, she is persuaded, be very acceptable. If she proves as truly Sormed for friendship as my landlady Says she is, I should be very happy if we would receive me for a companion
\
\
 . pi
pani6n~but I mull not soon entertain vain hopes — Time may, however, prove more favourable than I expect — my tranquillity may be reslored — though I must: never flatter myself that I shall regain the full friendship and protection of my relations -- a thing impossible!! — —
thought! — Adieu! Harriot.~when shall I cease tiring you with my complaints I
w
Miss Meynel to Mrs. Mont.
London.
Shall I tell you news, my dear Adelaide
Lord Villars is arrived in town. The coquettes all envy you, and would with pleasure, I believe) undergo your misfortunes to be possessed of your beauty, I will add a little more: Count dif mallo, who was, it seems, almost deprived of his adventuring spirit by the grief he experienced at your escape, at last roused himself, returned to Bath, and waited on good Mrs. White before your Quixotic Villars had taken his final leave of her. It is neediest to tell you, my dear girl, what bribery, cc. the Count endeavoured to make use of to overcome that worthy creature’s integrity, and learn whither you was gone. You may be as
certain
a THE MUTAMLITY OF
certain she was proof against all his offers. He called you all the charming creatures and endearing names he could collect together in the English language; said he would do all in his power to restore yotir reputation, for he respected you more than ever, and really believed you the marquis’s wife. Finding his inquiries vain, he came flying post to London, where, as report ushers forth, he waited on your old friend Colmore — (don’t be angry~made her a handsome present, and from her got permission to make use of Lady Di horton’s name as it deserved: : which he made it his business to attend several routs, where he made public how he became acquainted with you at Paris — the rebukes you gave him — the marquis’s hnd assistance (as he then thought it) and friendship in striving to make you return his passion — the fcherne of bringing him into your bedchamber at Lord walters’s house~and the guilt of his entering into it from the flattering hope of becooiing in possession of you afterwards — his being but just put into the room when Lord Walters and the Marquis arrived at it, the latter being determined you should not undergo real violation. In short, he has Slated facts as they really were, displayed Nugent and Lady Di horton’s illicit practice
 . o?
tice, with his lafl treatment of you, and your escape. The world is wondering — Several gentlemen have been to Col mote, who has fatissied them of the uuth, and the part she acted, declaring she believed you Strictly virtuous; for which declaration Lord Villars has secretly recompensed her since. It is publicly known that he released you from St. Lou; and those ladies who admire him are jealous of you to desperation.
Lady Di Horton appears in public as ufiial~fler passion for Lord Villars is known. Notwithstanding her ashirance, she is enraged, and sighs in secret for being thus exposed. Nugent is invisible at present— — is not known where he is.
The Marquis of Melville is highly incensed against: St. Lou, who, he says, blinded by his passion for you, has been incited by your art to thus attack his character. Violetta is out of fpirits~the Marquis, it is said, is tired of her, and slights her — She rages, storms, and vows revenge — .De fears her — smiles— — are reconciled: but she is enraged much a gainst St. Lou. Thus are things situated at present.
Take courage, Adelaide; who Icnows but P rovidence may be at work in your favour? I protest all this bustle has put
94
me into spirits, because I find you have more friends than enemies, and hope shat, ' some of your relations may inquire into this affair. Villars has so good a heart, I am charmed with him. But in the midst of this seeming levity, my dear Adelaide, my heart is not at ease. My uncle torments Lord Duncan, concerning Lady Emma. To award the dreadful blow, he renews the excuse of a foreigner being mislrefs of his affections. I fear Lord Lorton begins to suspect his fon’s partiality for me, Adelaide — I think I can perceive a storm impending. Oh folly! folly! What signifies the loss of a lover another will soon succeed him. But, then, his
merit — his uncommon merit! — Oh! ridi
^ • '
culous! — What a silly creature I am.? May you, my dear creature, have more enlivening ideas in Howel wood. The first agreeable news ftiall with pleasure be imparted by
Your affectionate
Harriot Meynel.
Lord
\
I
 . 95
Lord Villars to Mrs, Mont.
♦
Madam,
Mr ..PP, DPP... hpipg I.
too much anxiety and affliction to attempt taking pen in hand, has requested me to inform you that he has losl his beloved Harriot. He imagines Lord and Lady Lorton have had her privately conveyed from hence, but he can gain no knowledge where to, and is miserable. As he sup pofes that she will not be at liberty to write to you. Madam, he thought it was necessary to acquaint you of her exile, that you might not be rendered perhaps more uneasy by imbibing a notion that she slighted you. I feel much for them both, and am Shocked to find parents so cruel as to separate two lovers who appear formed for each other. But I will say no more, as I am well convinced it will only increase the affliction of a heart so compassionate as yours. Ah! Madam, may Heaven interpose in yours and the amiable Miss mey nelst favour! May you both be happy, whatever is the fate of
Your unalterable friend.
And respectful humble servant,
Villars.
Miss
)6  .
Meynel to Mrs, Mont,
JN^OST certainly I have been conveyed away in a clandesline manner. But, alas! Adelaide, my adventure will make no figure in hislory, my ravisher and companion being an old woman. How mortifying to one’s vanity is it 1 — A (hall not even
be envied -- -- and oh, cruel, no beautiful
swain to keep up my Spirits, by putting me in remembrance of my all powerful charms. O! it was enough to plunge me in vapours and despair.
My wise uncle and aunt, God bless them 1 (though I am a little in wrath again ft them for Serving me So Scurvy a trick) at last had the wonderful Sagacity to discover their Son Charles was too Sond of their niece Harriot, which undoubtedly must be the reason of his siighting Lady Emma : — a provocation beyond endurance; therefore, while I was out one evening, had taken care to have my clothes packed up. When I came home at ten, my dear Duncan being absent, they pushed me into a coach and six, with an old woman and her maid, and away we flew aff fall as the horses could carry us. Mark though, Lady Lorton ae: qnainted me in a few words, with her reasons for thus sending

 . m
t
ing me into exile, and assured me, soon as Lord Dunchn vas married, She would receive me again to her affection. I murmured to no purpose, and was sent off as 1 told you before.
This old dame’s name is Harpur : She lives in a frightful dismal house, surrounded by yews and wallows, whose different forms recall ovid’s Metamorphoses to my ideas, and make me sometimes ready to bemoan the fate of unhappy lovers on verted into evergreens by the supposed enchantress of this dreary mansion; — a pleasant fancy to keep up my spirits for a few moments : but where this place is situated I can’t tell — what country, a secret— — Should have had an opportunity of informing you I still exist, if it had not been for a good-natured old lady that is often here. She knew the reason of my being brought hither; therefore 1 complained of my extreme unhappy situation, in being deprived of the correspondence of an old friend, a fchoolfeliow, who would be much afflictgd at not hearing from me — that I wished.. inform her I was in health.
“Well, vvcll! Miss. skid she, clapping her hand on mine, “if you will swear, mind; you must wear, that you will not
^. F write
gs
write any message to your lover, — will forward it to your friensh”
I readily promised her, Adelaide; for Since I am thus banished, I may as well try the extent of my fwainst conslancy; though I fear a little, for men have fickle hearts. I then asked her if my friend might not return an answer to me, under cover to her.
“No !” that could not be, she said, as, "if I knew, or you did, what country 1 was in, my lover might be informed of it, but that you might direct to her, under cover, to Mrs. Blondel, at London, and I should have it safe. For heaven’s sake, write soon, Adelaide, (I enclose a proper direction,) for I am almioft melanchote, in a truly dismal situation. I am continually watched or locked up, and Mrs. Harpur is a rank methodist, full of hymns and canting prayers; a proper person for a persecutor. What a disgrace to religion is their sect!! — reality a pesh to society as they disregard moral duties. Murder, theft, lying, are cancelled in their opinion by faith, ^ — a faith without repentance, which wings their slight to Heaven. — — But, my dear friend, my own affairs had very near made me forget yours. ' The very night I was cruelly snatched from my
Charles, — “Oh! fool that lam” — Weil,
that
 .
that night I vas informed Lady Di Horton had gained a new lover, a foreigner of title, who is exceedingly handsome, and whom Ihe is as much delighted with, as her once darling Villars; an object: of Such superior worth! Several furmized it would be a match; but I could not gain his appellation, as the Adonis has not appeared much in public yet; but I doubt not he will soon be well known, as she will compel him to attend her steps to gratify her vanity. Violetta and the Marquis are in turn engaged at each other — yet he has not the spirit to discard her, as it must cast so dark a cloud over his character, though most people now think hini guilty. I flatter myself time will work wonders, and that your virtue and innocence will appear with redoubled lusfre. It cannot be otherwii'e — She must weary him out; at least a new object will arise, and cause her to experience part of the torture she has inflicted on you. — He will grow weary of her arbitrary sway, and discard her.
Nugent appears again, is despised by most people, and seems at a loss which fide of the question to take. He is a coxcomb, and worthy the notice of none but those devoted to bon-ton. A sweet animal truly!
The housekeeper here is a queer old
F z creature
ICO
creature, that at present is to me unfathomable. She prays and Squeaks hymns with Mrs. Harpur, yet I think is not Sincere in her professions of me tliodifm. She is a new convert, I am told, since She came to the family., which is very lately. J fancy fiie wants to convert herself into the good graces of her mislrefs; — She talks to me of keeping the passions in subordination— — adds, that even that will have no effect, if I have not saving faith, — for faith, you must; know, Mist, the apostle says, “covers a multitude of fins.” “Good Madam, let me correct you there; it is charity he speaks in favour cf with those words”, returns your provoking friend.
You shall have a little more of them all in my next, Adelaide. By that time perhaps Charles may have a wife, tleigh ho!
Yours Sincerely,
Harriot Meynel,
Mn
H TT M A N T. T F E. lot
mix Mont to Miss Meynel.
howel lv00 d.
Doubt not one moment, my dear
Harriot, of the unalterable affection of Lord Duncan : his affliction was very great > when your escape was discovered; 'and, not being able to write himfelfi he employed Ills friend as an amanuensis : a copy of whose letter I enclose you.
Ah! Harriot, the surprise and consternation into which I was thrown bv this
•• *
news is pass: description. I wept in the sincerity of my soul at your iinhappy destiny: : I Sliil flatter myseis it will be for a very short period. Lord and. Lady Lorton will soon be sensible their fon’s heart is too firmly fixed on his cousin ever to be inconstant. Mrs. Gordon is in London, and I had the honour of hearing from her lafl night. She inforitis me Lord Duncan is quite melancholy, and, in defiance of his parents entreaties, takes not the least: notice of Lady Emma
W
when she comes there, who is rather affected at it, his said. He entreated our friend to request of me, if 1 heard from you, to inform hef, that at least he might hear of your health. She told him he must: not
F 3 flatter
102
flatter himself that I would inform him. wssiere you vas, if I was acquainted with the place. He said it would however give him great pleasure so find 1 knew the place of your residence, as he was certain I would further his happiness, and write in his favour, for that you and you only fiiould be mistress of his heart.
With such proofs of his fidelity, my dear friend, I hope you will summon resolution: : notwithstanding your disagreeable Situation, which will undoubtedly be but ofi Short duration, I beseech you to cheristi your accustomed chearsulness — I pray for your release. Ah! my dear Harriot, you cannot doubt, I am Sure you cannot, doubt of the very Sincere friendship and inviolable affection of
Your own
Adelaide.
Mss Meynel to Mrs. Mont.
Simpleton that I am, ever Since the receipt of your letter, I undergo continual anxiety, fearing my dear Charles will, by the force of his generous sympathy, bring himself into an ill state of health. Contrive somehow to inform him I am well, eonftant in my esteem for him, and happy
r31 can possibly be, absent from him; that
will
HITMAN T. I F K. ro
will at leasl relieve him for the present; though i cannot hope for happier days in store. I relapse at periods tp a Slate of derpondencc, fancy I Shall hear of his being overcome by Lord and Lady lortonv arguments, and that he will be lost to me
for ever. Such is the state of absent lo
%
Adelaide. Ridiculous! — Who would ever wish to be so situated?? hopes, fears, and various turns, of that same passion called Love, are certainly very absurd. I will weary you no more at present on that subject.
Mrs. Burton, who is housekeeper here, makes great and (according to her idea) laudable endeavours to make a convert of me. She informs me, that Mrs. Harpur, herself, and their holy' teacher, Brother Cantwell, are continually on their knees on my behalf, that I may become a partaker of the New Birth. My tongue being at all times too glib, I told her that a New Lover would be more acceptable, as I should then be in hopes of his releasing me from my prifon house. ‘
“ohj Lord, Miss” ” she, shrugging up her shoulders, “what profane
nest!” r.,.,
“my deaf Turton, ^ returned I, cajoling her, “a woman of your sense, I
am F 4
loa
am certain, can never feriously imbibe the folly of such doctrine.”
'‘folly, Miss— — bless me !” ' Nay, don’t cross ourselves, dear Burton : though it would surprise me much to behold you in that attitude, for me thodifm is nearly allied to Popery.”
“Aye, aye, Miss, you may insult our hnppy Sect, and compare it to what you please” ” stje; but I would have you to know we scorn to worship saints and images.”
o
“Nay, ray dear Burton, do you not adore Cantwell, your living Saint, and worship the portrait of the ever to be*ia
mcnted Whitfield ?”
“'We undoubtedly. Mist, revere The memory of that holy man, who was our introducer intosthe regions of bliss” ” file, “and shall ever pay honour to his doctrine, which affures us of unspeakable happiness.” -- -- -
“Independent of moral actions, ” interrupted your pert friend.
‘‘ Lord! Mist, you musl excuse my telling you that you talk 'very simply, said she — “Moral actions! Why moral
always follow the faith we
profess“
“murder a moral action ?” returned
\
I, laughing at her affected piety
w’hy
I
 . IOC
K0’
“Why, no, Miss” ” She, lowering her voice — “but faith, you know” — --
“I know jhat a sincere repentance, with faith, will obliterate crimes, Burton; but ypst know the two prisoners at “refused to repent, or confess their crimes to the ministers who attended them, though the murder they committed was plainly proved. They even went to the gallows with a lie in their mouths, and anounced that they perceived heaven’s gates open to them. Such is the baneful doctrine of predestination. The professors of it rush headlong into eternity, with all their imperfections on their heads, and a train of unrepented crimes which Heaven hath denounced vengeance againsl. Listen to me, Burton : Why, if Omnipotence resolved to form some mortals to happiness, others to eternal misery (a thought injurious to his attribute of mercy), is vengeance denounced against sin? If some unhappy wretches are doomed to misery, spite of their virtue, where the reward of their combat againsl vice f for vice is inherent in us undoubtedly, and without combating against it, and invoking the grace of God, it would certainly prevail. The Scripture affures us, that by our works we are to receive sentence from the
F 5 Book
o6
y
Book of Life, in that tremendous day when the secrets of all hearts Shall be opened. Faith undoubtedly must: be joined to our works, my dear Burton — we must depend on neither alone.”
“Aye, Miss, but you know Paul says, vessels to honour and dishonour, c“ “true, Mrs. Burton; but, if you recollect, St. Peter says, in hisepislle, that his Brother Paul wrote Some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do the other Scriptures, to their own destruction.” “Aye, aye, Miss, it is you, who have not the true saving Saith, that wrest it to your own destruction— — am sorry for you ‘ I pity you” -- -- said she, again shrugging up' her shoulders; -- -- -- - “but you
really are, I find, in a Slate of reprobation, my dear and worthy mistress. Our holy brother Cantwell, and ail our brethren on earth, can never, I fear, save you from damnation” -- -- --
( “What is that you are saying?” ?”, Dame Harpur, entering the room,
“She has only been pronouncing an anathema against me, Madam, and sending me to a strange region and country I have no desire of entering into, ” Said I, laughing.
But
HUMANLIFE. i oy
Burton coloured, and recited what had passed with acrimony. ',
“Upon my word, Miss Meynel, you are much to blame, ” said the old dame.
“Indeed, Madam, added I, “inslead of being in a state of reprobation, I think myself in a state of grace. I am born in sin, ’tis true — prone to errors — I acknowledge my faults to my Creator, and believe, by my repentance, through the mercy of God, he erafes them. Scripture convinces me fois you would give yourself the trouble, Mrs. Harpur, to ' inspect; a little further into it, instead of the Journals, visions, cof your Saint Whitfield, I think you would be convinced your present opinion is falsely founded^’
“Oh! monstrous i” exclaimed they both together. /
In short, my dear Adelaide, they\both grew so Vociferous, that I was necessitated to flop my ears, that I might hear no more of their reproaches for my free discovery of the abhorrence 1 held their tenets in.
So very gloomily situated, I took the " liberty to write to Lady Lorton,. entreating her to send me some books to alleviate the dismal hours ftie had allotted me' — that, being placed among such enthusiasts, without Some amusement I should become a prey to despair. Since my commence
men t
o8
0
ment of this epislle I have received one from her, written very affectionately. as fining me nothing but her fon’s welfare Should make her use me with Such apparent cruelty. With this letter She Sent me a number of books, on various subjects, and a letter to Mrs. Harpur, desiring her not to persecute me on account of religion; at which that pious lady lifted up her eyes, and wondered at the profligacy of this age.
Adieu! Adelaide; be not filent, out of compassion to your dolefully fituated
friend
Har RIOT Meynel.
Mss Meynel to Mrs. Mont.
Lucrative motives have disrobed Burton of her sanctity and enthusiasm. In a month’s rhyme She quits Dame Harpur. This miracle was caused by a visit from
Mrs. A -- -- -. Mrs. Harpur not being able
to walk, and I not permitted private conversation with a Stranger, Burton was ordered to perambulate with her in the gardens, cat which time, by her skill in detraction, she so ingratiated herself in the
favour of Mrs. A- -- -, the said lady
offered her double wages, and other rewards, if she would quit Mrs. Harpur, and
live
HUMANLIFE. i oq
live wi: h her. They fettled it on the spot, to both their satisfactions, and entered the house again with the unwelcome news of their negotiation to my duenna. Dreadful reproaches ensued— — A — ~ took her leave~and Burton shrugging up her shoulders, thanks Heaven she is soon to follow.
Hearing a ruflling noise in my dressing-room, I Started up, and ran thither, where I found Burton eagerly perusing a new novel Lady Lorton had sent me. By way of forcing her opinion, “Isn't that a delightful book, Burton ?” said I; “youare welcome to the perusal of it.”
“Thanks, Miss” ” she, with joy in her countenance; “indeed, fromr what I have seen of it, I like it much; thefe books are very entertaining— —
instructive.”
“Equally so with whitfield’s Journals, ” said I, by way of fathoming her, with an added smile“
“to be sure, Miss” ” she, with her usual shrug, “Mrs. Harpur is too bigoted — She almosl converted me. — Superiors, you know, have great influence over one. I often thought her wtong, but
i
no
I Said nothing~no, I said nothing, *’ said
She, turning her eyes to the corners, and seemingly applauding hen own dissimulation“
“have undergone a great many trials, Mrs. Burton, I suppose, during your lise, ” Said I gravely, as if out of compassion to her.
“Trials!, miss! aye, aye; but what fignisiies boasting of them? I have Seen a great deal indeed.”
“Have you travelled much, Mrs. Burton? I suppose this country is not your native place.”
“No; it is not, miss. Wales was the place of my birth; but marrying unfortunately at Ludlow, my perfidious husband deserted me. Thus reduced, I was obliged to stoop to fervitildev
She was prevented pursuing her narrative by a summons from Mrs. Harpur, and left me in wonderful fufpenee; for by the description you gave of Fluellen, it must be she. However, the gratification of your curiosity must be suspended till my next.
How is my dear duncan’s health I Heigho!. Are we never to meet again Is Lady Emma triumphant? Say something of him, however grating it may be to my vanity and continue to love your
Harriot Meynel.
Mrs.
t
 . Hi
40
Mrs. Mont to Mff Meynel.
\
howel ivlod
I AM very happy to find my amiable
friend, in the midst of her affliction, retains her vivacity. Heaven, my Harriot, will soon interpose in your favour. A letter from the worthy Mrs. Gordon informs me, that your lover, impatient at his parents endeavours to tear your image from his memory, has himself informed Lady Emma he never will be sacredly u nited to any other woman than bis lovely cousin. He further informed Mrs, Gordon, his intention was to write and entreat the favour of me to know the place of your banishment. She solemnly assured him I was ignorant where it was. He then insisted uppn knowing where my letters to you were directed; in that point she gratified his Lordship. I suppose Love will soon assist him to discover the place of your retreat. It is unnecessary, I hope, my dear friend, to caution you against a clandestine marriage, as your own generous sentiments, and obligations to Lady Lorton, will overthrow all his lordship’s arguments in favour of such a proceeding. Perseverance in your duty will in the end
reward
JI2
reward you, my dear friend; and I cannot help flattering mystlf time will reconcile their fon’s choice, and give you to him who is worthy of you.
If it proves in reality that Burton is the despicable Fluellen, I Shall be happy to hear that She is removed from Mrs. Harpur. She is a dangerous invader of private peace, wherever She goes. Adieu to her.
More news for you, my dear Harriot: the day preceding that in which Mrs. Gordon wrote, Lady Di Horton was in diffclubly tied to a Count Lanore, the man
mj *
whose name you could not remember.
Spring approaches, with her usual love liness. What grateful ideas to Providence does it not awake in one’s breasl i It is impossible for a real atheisl, I think toex ^isl amidll such a duller of surrounding evidences of a kind, a benevolent, and a powerful Deity.
Let but the athelft nature’s works explore.
Soon he’ll recant, in them a God adore.
'• V ■ ■.
Could blind Chance cause such order and beauty Impossible!
The nosl is setting out, and I mull bid you hastily adieu.
Adelaide.
Miss
HTTMANT T.TFK
Miss Meynel to Mrs. Mont.
An exoptation of revenge is to derogate from humanity and the finer feelings, therefore it ssiall never be indulged in the breast; of your H irriot: but this old vixen Burton, or rather h'luellen, most; certainly Should receive a treatment similar to that she bestows on others. She has been disappointed in her hopes of attending Mrs.
A -- -- -, therefore has vented her spleen in
my disfavour to ingratiate herself again in the elleem of Mrs. Harpur. Mrs. ABY some means had information of her behaviour in Wales, therefore wrote to inform her (he Should forego all thoughts of her in the capacity She had before agreed to.
Burton enraged, complained vehemently to Dame Harpur, and said she was persecuted on account of her perseverance to the true gofpel faith, and that I had treated her very ill on the same Score — offered her profane novels to read, and lipon her refusal declared I would assert the contrary to her miftress; with a great deal more malevolence not worth repeating. Mrs. Harpur gave credit to her sister in the Lord, and resused to hear my defence:
but
MA
to recompense the grief I underwent, your letter arrived. ' I coincide, my dear Adelaide, in your opinion of a clandestine marriage. The proofs of my charles’s affection will enable me to undergo my tortures with more fortitude. But why do I mention tortures, and boast of fortitude, to you, who have such a superiority over me in that point. Have you not undergone, with the. most unexampled patience, afflictions which w'oiild deprive me of reason } — I despise myself so: complaining.
Pray, if possible, amuse me with a tlier account of the Countess Lanore, who, from receiving such mortifying coolness from Lord Villars, threw herself, by way of consolation, into the arms
of this foreigner.
When, my dear Adelaide, Shall we embrace each other.? Alas! Destiny diverts herself at our expense, and toffss us
about in a strange manner.
J, '. •
• i
’ «.. f ■
y
Adieu!
'i'
'»
Harriot Meynel.
.A »
*
* 9 ^ "
mfl
I;
». * •
 . 115
\
Mrs. Gordon to Miss Meynel.
London.
TRANCE events have happened, my dear Miss Meynel. Your beloved friend is now acknowledged Marchioness of Melville, and the poor urihappy Marquis expired last night. Her relations now Surround her: but, notwithstanding their attention to her, and endeavours of arrtendment for their past cruelty, (he feels too sensibly for her unnatural hushandst death. When capable of taking pen in hand, (he will herself inform you of particulars, which I am certain will be much more pleasing and satisfactory to you than to hear it from me. I remain
My dear Miss meyneps
•
most affectionate
Sarah Gordon.
•?v.
northeast
•4
i6
She Marchioness of Melville to Mss
Meynel.
/
O W surprising, how wonderful, are the dispensations of Providence! By sudden and melancholy effects it has restored my lost famie, my fortune, and my fr’ends : yet, while paying the rightful tribute of gratitude to Heaven for this bounty, my heart melts with affliction for the early fate of my poor unfortunate Melville, who fell a victirn to his unhappy passion for the abandoned Violetta. those who are unacquainted with my disposition may perhaps laugh at the concern I cannot help visibly showing, and think me a hypocrite for mourning after a man who once used me so ill: but repentance with me obliterates all unkindness; and I sincerely wisli it had been in my power to prolong his life, that, by a longer repentance, he might have rendered himself still more acceptable to his Maker. He was my husband— — tenderness returned — I efteeraed him the same.
I was rambling with Mrs. Hall in Howel wood, when a servant on horseback approached us, and, alighting, delivered me a letter, Surprised, I demanded
 .,, y
•r
manded to whom he belonged, when he answered “■ Marquis of Mdville.”
I was {iruck dumb with aslonishment' — Mrs, Hall stared at remarking my confusion— — the fellow continued, “the Marquis is dangerously ill, Madam, as that letter will inform you.” His introduction gave me a great perturbation of spirits, and made me guess something dreadful was to follow. Mrs. hah, * observing my Situation, presented her smelling bottle; after which I made Shift to peruse the letter, which was from my aunt Walters, as follows;
‘ ‘ Mas tres cheer Dame,
IT affords me grand plaijlr that I have again the happiness of acknowledging you for my niece, and that your virtue and merit is rewarded, par jiijhce, according to its desert _ trifle evene ment has caused this alteration in the unfortunate Marquis, who has already' acknowledged you' for his lawful wife, nd, produced the certificate, drawn by Mr. Foster, which he had not destroyed; and so, fair une compensation, a will is now making, in cafe of his demise, to settle on you, and your heirs, for ever, two thousand a year and twenty thousand
ii8*th.d MUTABILITY OF
fand pounds in cash. I at the same time condole and congratulate you. Annette will attend you in the marquis’s carriage, and affure you of other particulars. I remain.
/
Ma tres cheer niece,
I
“Foujours a votre,
J. Walters.”
You perceive, by the above epistle, my dear Harriot, that my aunt has imbibed all the frippery of the French nation, and is an enemy to feeling and dismal sensations. Her letter was not at all calculated to dissipate my afflictioa and surprise. To save myself the trouble of unfolding the mystery to Mrs. Hall, I would have shown her the letter, but the mixed language it was written in would have made it to her unintelligible; therefore, in walking back to the honfe, I made shift to inform her who I really was. The good-natured creature, it seems, had heard my history, though she little imagined I was the person. She did .all in her power to comfort me and raise my spirits. Soon after we entered the house, Annette arrived, and shed tears of joy at the sight of me. “Ah! my dear
lady, ”
V
HUMANLIFE. im
lady, ” skid She, “at last you are found — Indeed I never more will part with you — Why did you cruelly forsake me, ” continued she, and not permit me to follow you in every change of your fortune V
I returned her many thanks for her tenderness, but informed her in my wandering state it would not have been possible.

“Well, my dear lady, ” said she, “no time is to be lost;; my poor master is impatiently expecting you; therefore let me pack up what trifling things you want at present, and 1 will inform your Ladyship of particulars oh our journey.”
I followed her advice, but made her take some refreshment first. Mrs. Hall insisted upon my taking some likewise before I departed. The tears fell on my taking leave : though she said she hoped my happiness was at hand.
Soon as we were seated 'in the chaise, Annette, gave me the'melancholy recital, and informed me, that the Marquis being in a violent dispute with Violetta, that furious woman ran to a closet within her bedchamber, where a poignard, richly ornamented, belonging to her late husband, hung, and snatching it off the hook, unr
sheathed
120
sheathed it — She hastily returned, and, concealing the weapon, before he was a ware, plunged it into his body, crying, “Receive the recompense of your inso lence.” Her friend, Madame St. Clare,. being in the next room, heard the Marquis groan, and her last words; upon which stie immediately ran to them, and. found him dropped on the bed, fainting, and his blood issuing like a torrent from the wound. She shrieked out, and rung theshell — Servants came, and immediately fetched some of the most e; minent surgeons, who examined his wound, and found it was mortal, and he could live buta fetv days at most. When the victim returned to his senses, he desired that Violetta might. be secured as his murderefs, confelted to the surgeons and people present that she was not his lawful wise, for that Adelaidi Belmont only had a right to that ti tie, and desired my relations might be'/ent for, that he might clear my innocence, and acknowledge his own guilt, before his death, as some recompense. Accordingly, Lord
and Lady Walters, the Duke of -- -- -- -- --,
and my other Friends, attended. Count St. Lou was likewise sent for, who declared the truth of having been put into my bedchamber, c. Proper measures were taken ro convince the world of my innocence

H; T T M A M 1.1 F F. S 3 1
cence, and a will formed in my favour; but he was very unhappy at not knowing where I was, that he might once more see me, and entreat forgiveness. This strange news soon spread, and arrived to the hearing of my worthy friend Mrs. Gordon, who immediately sent to inform Lady Walters of my address. She communicated the welcome inrelligence to my poor Melville, who instantly sent for me. In the mean time, Violetta, finding her character destroyed, and her crime of murder detected, swallowed a draught that soon put a period to her fife. Thus ended annette’s dreadful intelligence.
We travelled hard, and I arrrived a t London much fatigued, dispirited, and unfit for the scene I was soon to undergo. Lady Walters I'eceived me, “Ah! my dear niece, ” said ftie, “forgive me, forgive me! — I was deceived as to your supposed guilt; but take courage, the poor Marquis is dying. How fortunate it is he acknowledges, you in these solemn moments for his lawful wife~you will now be restored to everything you wish~mir/v mon Dieu! how I run on, and forget it’s northeast, ceffary for you to take something after your Satigue — Do, ma cheer Lady Melville,
G be
122
be seated— — degrees we must inform the Marquis of your arrival.”
Some'wine, cakes, c. were handed to me, while I Sat aftoniftied at her strange inattention to so melancholy an event. I begged Annette not to leave me. At last I was summoned to my poor unfortunate Melville. To express the grief Ifelt when I beheld him is impossible.
“Can you forgive me, sweet Adelaide, for my past cruelty dnd injustice said he, in a faint voice.
“My dear Melville, ” returded I, kisi. sing his hand, and bathing it with my tears, “term it not so harshly — it was the fickleness of youth — most sincerely do 1 forget everything past, and wish you as fervently your health as I wish myself happiness after my long sufferings •
“are too angelic, *’ said he, embracing me“ “cculd I ever forsake such goodness— —! I am all torture at the reflection that I could abandon you —
I have deservedly received my death from the wretch who Seduced me — .Dan you forgive me } Alas! Harriot, you must excuse my relating the partieulars of this dreadful interview, and the truly distrefling ones that Succeeded.” My heart was torn past recording. He would embrace me, ask forgiveness, then fall into delirious faintings
_____________. 4
11 ivi ^1 in 1^ 1 1 1^. 14.^
V •
which in two days closed his poor unfortunate life.
/
Mrs. Gordon attended me both before his death and after it. — My innocence is cleared — my honour is restored.
Madame St. Clare, the friend of Violetta, sent several times to inquire after my health, and hoped I would not take it amiss for being so impertinent to trouble me at such a time, although She hadsheen once the friend of my enemy, but that She had a real esteem for me, and hoped before (he quitted England I would permit her to wait on me, as She had something particular to communicate.
Such a message furprzied me much My friends surrounded me, and endeavoured to soothe me — I became more composed; and a few days since, by the advice of my dear Mrs. Gordon, sent Madame St. Clare word that I would receive her whenever (he pleased;; you may guess the idea of receiving a person once a friend to the wicked Violetta! Her answer wa's,. that she would attend me, but entreated I would receive her alone. Such a request was very Singular; I imparted it to Mrs. Gordon,
124
who persisted that I Should not, for She would remain with me. I must own my ' spirits were much depreffedi had fears myself concerning her intention. The .appointed time arrived. Mrs. Gordon with me, when the name of Madame St. Clare was announced; a lady in deep mourning entered, and displayed the well-known features of my old acquaintance and foe Mademoiselle Albe. — Her face was pale as death — her looks denoted horror and distraction.
“Is it possible Do I really see 'Mademoiselle Albe said I.
“You do, much wronged friend, ” returned she“ “will not further injure you — Will you not trust yourself alone with me? — Yet, alas! I deserve the
most cruel suspicions you can form of
rnci
“This friend. Madam, ” * said I, “is accjuainted with all my concerns; but if you have anything relating to yourself to communicate, which you chuse She Should not Iiear, I will entreat her to retire.”
“Oh, no, no, ” answered she, with wildness, “it is time my guilt Should be displayed to the world in its proper colours. I am going to quit England, and
retire to, a nunnery for life : but resolved,
before
 .
before my departure, to acquaint you with my own and my infamous friend violetta’s history. That done — your forgiveness bestowed on an unhappy wretch ~ I quit the world for ever.”
She seated herself on a couch by me, and began as follows:
“A disposition to coquetry is certainly peculiaiiy innate to Some more tham others *, at least I judge So from myself, as I recollect that f was inclined to t’jat vice at a very early period. 1 was Sond' of admiration, and, alas!; unhappily became too Soon mv own mistress. Several'
* ^
lovers became staves to’ my charms at Montpelier; I deluded them by turns' wirh hopes which 1 never intended to fulstll; was gay, stuttering, and mistress of my heart, till the Marquis of Melville arrived': to him Sate determined’! should surrender. P made use of all my arts to ensnare him; common gallantry was all I received in return for my heart; and your arrival put a period to the hope I had imbibed of being able in time to Subdue him. Flowever, my passion for him being So violent, I determined to miss no opportunity of being in his dear company; though it was frequent stabs to my soul to perceive his assiduity to you. I torrhented you with my compa
G s
26
ny, for the marquis’s sake, tho’i knew it was disagreeable to you both. However, I kept my lovers as usual, by way of cordial for the anxiety I underwent on the marquis’s account. The news then Was spread of his intended departure for N ice, which drove me almosl distracted, and from my extreme perturbation of mind caused a Sever, in which you know j was So imprudent as to entreat him to attend me, which he, as I then thought, cruelly refused. You came— — is need iess to recite the conversation that ensued. My pride, jealousy, c. drove me to desperation almost, but in my cooler moments I could not help approving your advice of trying the effects of absence, and the gay amusements of Paris, though 1 had very little hope of being the better for it. I could not resolve to go, and kept house till after your departure to Nice. I then went to Madame d.dran’s,
y "
to endeavour to discover where you was gone, but could not. However, chance brought me acquainted with it, and I wrote an anonymous letter to Mr. Ancram, in hopes of his preventing the Marquis marrying you, but soon after had the extreme mortification to hear the old gentleman was dead, and your marriage consummated. I ran to Madame
‘ d’oran’s,
 . ia
/
d.dran’s, where I had the news confirmed, and in that moment of fury vowed revenge on you both, which I determined if possible to put in practice, as a compensation for the insult he had paid to my Slighted charms. I immediately went to Paris, and there got acquainted with Violetta. Her vivacity charmed me : we formed a friendship. She came in laughing one day, ‘ Albe, 1 have a rare scheme of preferment for you, ’ said she, ‘ it has just entered my head — Will you venture to marry an old man, who I am certain cannot live above half a year ^ and you then Will be mislrefs of sooo louis dorsa year for life “I should be mad to refuse such a settlement” ” I, “if I could get it; the only man I loved is married, therefore now I donst care what sort of wuetch I have for a husband, folie has wealth.” * Charming girl!’ returned she; ‘ quite to rny mind; for, faith, Albe, it is love unrestrained I am for, not dull matrimonial flames — A husband is only of use to preserve one’s reputation. I lured Guadicci to marry me, for the sake of his wealth; after which I had lovers in plenty. Fie entertained them, and soon complaisantly took his departure to the territory of worms, to my inexpressible ioy; for I began, to be
G 4 heartily
28
heartily weary of dissembling affection for him. Here I have found none worthy of bartering my liberty for, therefore will range like the bee. -- -- -- But to the purpose,
my dear Albe; this old Monlieur St. Clare was hnshand to' a hster of gna dicci’s, w}iom< he buried some years since. He saw you at my house once, and feeras to admire you vastly. This morning he shoke of you in high terms, which made this thought pop into my head. He is near o, therefore if you can endure him for a few months, do, my dear Albe, for your own sake; we may take our pleasure, and leave him to nap in the chimney corner.^’ “The libertinism she had displayed in her conversation did not altogether please mc; though so inclined to coquetry and admiration, I was not in fact criminal. However, the offer she had made me caused me to drop further ressection on her conduct, and I readily entered into the scheme she had planned for me of becoming St. clare’s wife. That very afternoon I was invited to meet him at her house, and by all the art I was mistress of strove to heighten the affection he had begun to entertain for me. He departed very happy — He begged to visit me — I complied — In a week’s time we were married; a fortnight after which
he
H TT M A M LIFE. iq
he was taken off in an apoplexy, and left rnearich widow, and my liberty. Melville Still adhered to my heart — I resolved, if possible, to revenge myself on him and you. Soon after, you both arrived at Paris. Violetta informed me of it. To keep up appearances, I went not into public. She Said the Marquis vas the most enchanting creature she had ever seen, and that she would put herself in his way, if possible,, to have the glory of leading him in her chains, and mortisying that wretch his wise,. with her trifling beauty. It was a charming opportunity, I thought, to execute my revenge ou you at leasl, theresore resolved if possible toassift her on with her design. My dear Violetta, returned 1; the very great obligation you have conferred on me, by putting fotplendida^ fortune in my possiessiony, will make me always your friend: I have had a slight acquaintance wuth the Marquis at Montpelier, as he‘ frequently' visited ■ a family I did there, at the time he was addressing Miss Belmont. The way you must engage him is by a seeming inattention to him,, affected? modesty. It was said. that was the scheme she practised to entrap him.” ‘thanks, my dear St. Glare, * said she;.; never fear my acting
G 5 mr
9v

my part w’ell. I had a spy over him, and find he is to be at the opera tonight with some of his countrymen. Lady Melville stays at home with her aunt, who is indisposed;; I Shall have a good opportunity of displaying myself, Sori have contrived it So as to Sit in the next box with Madame Larone.’ She sollow ed her concerted plan, and came to Sup with me in raptures of joy. *■ I have played my part well, St, Clare, ’ Said She; ‘ I turned my eyes Srequently on Melville, with all the languidnefs I could possibly throw into them : upon his eyes meeting mine, I as hastily withdrew them, with a forced blush. He observed it, and by help of one of his sviends got himsels introduced to Madame Larone, who, not being averse to gallantry, Saw what was going Sorward, and invited him, to stay in her box. I Spoke little — but the dumb eloquence continued. He paid me Several compliments. Sighed much, and pressed my hand when he led me to my chair, at which I affected to be Surprised, and hals angry. Thus, my dear Sr. Clar«, ended our interview this evening. Oh i he is an enchanting creature, worth all the pains 1 take to gain him. consound that Syren his wisej Had he not been married, I might have been the envy of
the
 .. lar
the world. But let me confider, St. Clare; you say they were married privately — no witnesses — and the old parson is dead -- -- ’fon honour
“I found what She was about.. — Aye, my dear Violetta, said I, it may not be impossible to effect what you are thinking of, if you persevere in refislance to his
wishes.” -- -- ‘'very true,"' returned she;
at least i’ll endeavour it, for he is worth fixing for life. The loss of him would drive me to desperation— — could not support it.’’ Thus encouraged, she fixed the resolution of striving toexecute her design.
They met frequently at Madame L" rone’s; after which he visited her at her own house; but I took particular care always to retire before his arrival. You may, perhaps, wonder that I did not strive to gain him for myself— — had found it itnpossible, and thought that by assisting him to gain Violetta I should in the end be asliired of his gratitiide and friendship, which might at Baste arise to desire. Such were my fentimenta then. -1 found, by her his passion loon arrived to a violent height; and, that he might not betray my past conduct to this infamous woman,, sent for him one day to my house, as if unknown to her; that I had something particular to
gommunigate
32
communicate to him. He had often heard my new name from her, and she told him he was under obligation to me for speaking in his favour, therefore he immediately complied with my request, and was extremely astonished to find in Madame St.. Clare his old perfecutrefs. I told him that absence had cured me of a passion for him that was very ill-founded, and, in recompense for the trouble I had given him,
I had done all in my power to make Violetta listen to his fuir, for which I hoped he would conceal the imprudent behaviour I had practised at Montpelier; for as Madame Guadicci was strictly virtuous, if she knew 1 had acted so imprudently, she would forego my friendship; that I sincerely wished them both happiness.. was Sorry it was now out of his power to make himself so, as be could not marry my beautiful friend, now he had owned his marriage to Miss belmoncs relations.’^
‘ Ah! but my dear Miss Albe — Madame Sr. Clare, I mean — I may disown it.
-- -- 1 will see if Adelaide — — If not, stratagem must fucceed.’
“Aye, you may try, ” returned I; ‘‘ but donh betray my past folly.”
‘ No, my dear St. Clare; your present kindness obliterates it from my memory. Adorable Violetta! She must be mine
“He
^ 4-
4
H TT iu A M T T T F' t
A
‘‘ He departed, promising not to discover to Madame Guaddicci it vvas him f had been in love with. After that, he frequently called on me, and I met him at violetta’s. He behaved as a friend; told me of his hinting to you he loved another, and his proposal, which you would not listen to. Since you would not consent, he Said, he would concert a Scheme to put St. Lou in possession of you, if he could get Violetta to promise to marry him when he disengaged himself. With Seeming reluctance she complied, and you fuffered'the completion pf his hellissi plot in London. When freed from you, he married Violetta, I asked him if he had permitted the Count to gratify his passion.? He changed colour, and Said, ‘ No, he hath taken care you should not be prostituted but by your own consent., Upon which I laughed; for though I had not parted with my virtue, I thought but lightly of it then, as Violetta had instilled her principles into me. When they came to England, I came likewise, and hired a house for myself, striving all the time to make the Marquis in turn become captive to me. I got intimate with Lady Di Horton, whom I had formerly known at Montpelier. She fell in love with Lord Villars, and finding he was gone to Wales pur Sued him there to
Mr.
lu
Mr. shenkin’s : from thence Ihe informed
me of her success or disappointment. In the mean time, the violence of violetta’s natural temper began to appear. She continued to dote on Melville, but was jealous of him to distraction. By way of consolation, he used frequently to call to me, and complain of her injustice and tyranny. I humoured him — pitied him — In short, friendship made him at last discover charms in me he had never observed before. My house, when she knew he was safe in company, was his place of resuge;. and, by yielding to his criminal desires, I became his fixed friend, asl never upbraided him is I Saw him pay attention to any other woman; Violetta had taught me skrt. I wrote to Lady Di that I had my love returned, but did not chuse to discover his name on paper. She was disappointed of her design on Villars, and came to London. I then entrusted her with the Secret; and she, to conceal me from the wrath of Violetta, permitted us to meet at her house', that by that means Violetta might suspect her rather than me. The Marquis likewise would osten commend her beauty besore Violetta, to deceive her; and she would immediately curse her in the most dreadsul manner. Lady DI concerted that Scheme which Nugent executed on
you
* H OMAN LIFE. i
you — rtlien, to make you appear more infamous, that Lord Villars might despise you, put you into Count Sr. lou’s power. Suddenly there appeared a Count Lanore, a handsome fellow, who paid his addresses to her. She was charmed with him; and, without inquiring into his character, was so foolish as to marry him. I was a few days after sitting in violetta’s dressing ^ and she was in her bedchamber, when the Marquis, after paying his compliments, passed through to her room. They were continualiy disputing, and he was so heartily weary of her, that he began to repent having sacrificed you to her, as you would have born his infidelities with patience. The report of your supposed innocence spread, and enraged her Still more. But to return. ‘ Violetta, ’ Said he, ‘ have you heard the news ?’ — What i'’ Said she. — ‘ Poor Lady Di Horton — blast the villain 1 — An impostor has married her, and conveyed her by Source to a Seat, she has in Cornwall, where she must 'end her wretched days, is Some lover does not relieve her — So charming a creature to be
Sacrificed’ — —
‘ D — mnation to her charms, * Said Violetta; ‘ it was my revenge caused her punishment. Dare she vie with me in beauty ?’
“Your
\
fs
‘ Your punishment, then, Shall Succeed, insamous woman, ’ Said the Marquis. ‘my lawful wise, Adelaide Belmont, Shall put im her claim; a friend of mine, who has the certificate of our marriage, (hall Seek her out, and make her prove it. Her goodness will pardon me. Different from thee as Heaven from Hell
‘ Furies assist me I’ Said the enraged Italian; ‘ Is this to be born ?* So Saying, She instantly fled to her closet, and hastily returned with a poignard, which she
plunged into his side. His groans alarmed me. When I entered, he was weltering in his blood. His condition Scarce gave me power to call for assistance, I was So terrified and afflicted for him. At last the Servants attended. He desired he might be Secured, and Said in a low voice to me, ‘ It' is all over with me, St. Glare; repent;, you See Justice overtakes us. My Adelaide, that angel of light, Shall have her innocence cleared. Retire“
“was going with heart selt agonies,, without taking Surther notice of Violetta, who was now become an’object of horror to me by her cruelty, when she called me back : ‘ St. Clare, ’ Said She, with rage still
strongly impressed on her countenance,. ‘ one moment turn back — hearken to the
few words I have to utter. I suppose these
fellows
 . in
fellows will permit me to speak to you in private before I am further tormented.’’ They answered, Yes; but they must first inspect the place, to see there was no dangerous instrument.. Upon, finding, none, they permitted us to enter,, and left i is alone.
“I was Just going to reprovesher for the rash deed (he had been.guilty of, when she prevented me by speaking first. ‘ I have cornpleated my revenge, St. Clare, as an affronted woman should — at least an Italian — I boast and glory in the noble custom of our country. Yes, dear as Melville was to me once, his neglect of me lately entirely ^ dislodged it; hatred succeeded, and revenge likewise— —
revenge! -- -- 1 have cornpleated it on that
sorceress Lady Di Horton. To you, St.. Clare, I have often repeated my intrigues — The feigned Lanore was once ari object of my fondest wishes— — gratified them — His wit and dexterity procured him the livelihood of a gentleman — By fools adventuring their patrimony on dice, he kept up appearances. My love eradicated, a friendship succeeded from his kind behaviour resisting upbraiding. I made him so veral handsome presents while at Paris, to support him : he gratefully, returned me thanks for it, and was of service by getting
into
f
[^8
into company with Melville, and heightening his passion for me by an exaggeration of my charms. I told you not of him, as it was unnecessary. When I perceived Mel ville’s love for me slacken, I watched the cause, and found out his frequent visits to Lady Di. To remove her, and af siss the feigned Lanore to a good fortune, I invited him hither. I knew that his beauty and alluring manner would Soon be able to overcome her indifference, and that his gratitude to me would make him comply with my desire, which was, if he got into possession, that he would remove her to cornv/all, and confine her for Isse. He promised— — to England, and took the name of Lanore — soon got acquainted with Lord B — at a gambiing table, in whose house hornet Lady Di Horton. She ■ became charmed wuth him, and they were. married. Thus, St. Clare, you see, I com pleated my revenge on her and Melville. But his daring to insult me with recalling his Adelaide cornpleated the seen— — is a facrisice — May horrors blast him in his lasl moments! As for myself, I shall quit life with pleasure: a wise father taught nie that systems of religion were only the bugbear of fools, Heaven and Hell a mere joke: it has been my firm pershafion. I have pursued pleasure to have a free range.
For
 . 13^
For that purpose I bestowed laudanum on my hated husband Guadicci, and sent him out of pain to annihilation— — a more public manner I have revenged myself on Melville — But 1 am now weary of the farce of life -- 1 wish to be nothing
“Good God !* exclaimed I, notwithstanding my past guilt, “isit possible such a wretch can exist!! — Virgin, defend me!”
‘ Wretch not me, ’ returned she — ‘ Does not your religion teach you to assist the afflicted? — But I see ’tis myself that must move for succour— — I I shall faint.’ -- -
“So saying she reached a small vial from a drawer in a cabinet, and taking a water glafs, with feme water in it, entirely emptied the drops.
‘ This will relieve my present preturba tion, ’ said she.
“I wish it may assift you to repent of your crimes, ” said I, “which years of penitence can hardly expiate.”
‘ Fool r interrupted she, ‘ two hours is the utmost I can exist. Did you think I would be the timid, liliy fool, to suffer myfels to be arraigned for murder i No My confession was for thy benefit, to teach thee how to live, and how to die.~dif« traction — Oh I I am on the rack.
I
140
“I immediately rung the bell, and sk the next room had scare strength to tell what this infamous woman had done, — that assistance might be directly applied for, — When I returned to her she was in extreme agonies — the horrors of conscience arose — “Ah !” ■ Said she, quite sran tic, — “truth beams iipom me in this dreadful i'^stant — my father deceived me!' — Oh,, horror! must I become the victim of his salse principles.? Distraction!
— Tis you have kilkd me! O tortures!
— whither am I going, St. Clare? — iliere is a hell — I feel it ahead) nark! — Guadicci! — O Melville She fell into strong convulsions, and fainted. 1 retired, shocked beyond expresnon, into the next room; — in a Sew moments Sne expired.
The Marquis was on the bed in great agony and pain. My soul was in tortures. On my knees 1 entreated his pardon for alluring him to my arms, and being the means of his becoming posseskd of the woman who was his miurderess; he was So compassionate as to Seal my pardon, and persuade me to pass the remainder of my days in penitence, adding, he Sincerely pitied me.
“I retired to my house with anguish inexpressible — immediately Sent for a
priest,
H II M A N T. I F F.. i/i t
.priest, and confessed my guilty history, who told me the only way to make my peace with heaven, was to make restitution, if possible, to you, and devote the remainder of my life to penitence and prayer, taking the holy vow. His advice I approved, it was rational. Father P — ^ — is not one of those mercenary priests which our religion are too Srecpiently disgraced by; I theresore inquired after you under my own name and at last obtained permission to acknowledge my crime, and entreat your forgiveness: willyou Seal it, Madam, by accepting these papers, ” Said Ihe, (in wdiich She 'presented me hals her fortune She wept much at my refusal called me extremely cruel; but I told her it would afford.; me greater pleasure, is she would bestow it on monsieur St. clare’s relations, as I now had, tharilc God, Sufficient for myself; that I sincerely forgave her, and should be glad to hear from the Convent she went to, that her peace of mind was restored. As she had
none of those very dreadful crimes to an
■. *
for, that Violetta was guilty of, I doubted not but repentance would conciliate her to haven, as (hr was awake to her errors. She coii'jitne‘ -- V eep exceedingly, — at last d i i' tuiiie of the unhappy marquj.j tet diamonds,
from
IA
from her pocket. “At least. Madam, ” said she“ “this, if it is only to diminish my guilt; as I am now going to be devoted to a holy spouse, all remembrance of this once loved object must be erased, and your goodness present to my memory. If my prayers can prevail, - — if the prayers of such a wretch have any efficacy, you will be completely happy. Alas 1 how unhappy was my fate to meet with Violetta, for tho’ she could not, nor indeed did, much attempt to destroy my System of faith, yet she instilled a Spirit of libertinism into me, which without knowing her I should not have had, or thought of Surrendering myself to the Marquis after your marriage. But talking in vain. Adieu, worthy Lady 'Melville; may coritinual blessings.attend you !” So Saying, she departed, and has promised do write to me Some time aster her arrival af the Convent of -- —.
Poor unhappy woman! she is worthy bs pity; she was born with strong passions, and, at too early a period of life for one of her disposition, lest to piirsue the bent of her inclination, which was admiration. It was a great mercy she did not immerge herself still deeper in guilt with Such a monitor as Violetta. The Marquis only was master of her heart and person,
 . ia?
fon, and tho’ She musl be condemned as guilty, it is not ours to judge too Severely,
I am by no means an advocate for a mb naftic lise to those of the Romish persua sion, but! think for Such as the unhappy Madame St. Clare, it is a comsortable asylum, withdraws them from the Seduction of the world, and objects which might otherwise cause a relapse more dreadsul thauv a first error. It is not every one who has resolucion alike To ’ make use of reason to prevent their again erring. Madame St. Clare at present' has continually in view the late horrible Scene, of which she was witness; she Saw guilt and atlieism its own punishment in the death of her miserable friend; the "gloom of a. convent will keep it still longer dn remembrance, and, I doubt nor, create a per Sect reformation. — Lord N — — f is confined by the gout at Laurel Grove. ' My Aunt bath written Several penitential letw ters, and intreats me to go therei to Seal her pardon, as she calls it, for lifer eriiel treatment. The world smiles on me ww, Harriot : should not that be my conclusion of her : offers. — However, - I sincerely forgive her, and intend tb wait on her soon.. ■,
Lord
/
144
Lord Duncan continues very unhappy on your account. Neither of us canby any means overcome the woman’s integrity with whom I deposit ray letters to you, or by any method Sind out your dwelling place: He is at times almost frantic; therefore, my dear Harriot need not be under any apprehension that he can indulge one inconstant, thought. To confess the truth, I am not •sorry it proves so, as a meeting between ou might overturn all your resolutions of •adhering to your duty. The powerful arguments of a favoured lover, frequently overcomes such resolutions as yours. I hope, my dear friend, you will not think me deficient in friendship for harbouring Such Sentiments; but I think perseverance in your duty will, in the end, make Lord and Lady Lorton reconciled to your wishes. 1 should indeed have been glad to enjoy the happiness osyour company, and a few days Since waited on Lady Lorton, ^ to beg she would grant that Savour, promising her I would retire with you to a distant seat of mine, where I would give her the most solemn assurance she should require, that I would keep you concealed from Lord Duncan, and that you Should not even correspond with him. Your Uncle and her Ladyship unkindly lesused
me
 TFR. iac
me, which I feared indeed would be the cafe. But let not that discourage you, my dear Harriot; bear yourself up with as much fortitude as you can, and write to me often, to amuse your lonely hours. Your many kind letters and congratulations, during my silence, claim my best thanks, dear Harriot; but you are sensible it must have afforded me the truest plea fvre. If I have given you cruel advice concerning Lord Duncan, confider it is for your welfare, and it arises from my wishes, that you should rise superior to the rest of your sex in conduct as well as in beauty : not that I doubt your propriety; but so amiable a lover as Lord Duncan is almost too aliuring to be refused, if reason is not upon guard.
Next week I intend Setting out for Laurel Grove. I have promised your lover, that when I return, I will again attempt a reconciliation comsormable to his wishes. He will not Speak to Lady Emma, and they Say she is melancholy on that account; So you alone are not unhappy.
It is reported, that the fictitious Cuont Lanore, whose real appellation is Signior Florella, keeps Lady Di under stridf confinement. Madame St. Clare informed me, she guessed it must be So, as she had
H not
t
146
not heard from her. After so tediosts a recital you will not be displeased at a respite. mrs. Gordon, who is now with me, joins in the mofl affectionate wishes; she likewise encloses a letter in mine. Adieu, my very amiable friend.
/
^ A. Melville.
Mtfs Meynel to the Marchioness of
Melville.
O you imagine, Adelaide, that your uncommon generous offer would be concealed from' my knowledge, but you vas mislaken, my good friend. Lady Lorton herself wrote me word of the surprise she underwent, when, to insure my happiness with Charles, you offered, as a small token of friendlliip for me, twenty thousand pounds, which were five •more than he was to have with Lady Emma. Tho’ she acknowledged that they both admired the nobleness of your proffered gift, and extent of affection for me, yet they could not consent that their niece should be under such great obligations to a Stranger, — besides, it would prove them mercenary, — foriune was out of the question, their word had
long
HUMANLIFE. 1^*7
long been engaged to Lord A -- -- -- - for
his daughter, and they could not, — would not retract it. She therefore wrote to acquaint me that they were positive in their resolution of marrying Lord Duncan to Lady Emma: he now indeed was become more reconciled to their commands, as he discovered it was for his emolument, both as to fortune and interest. As all hopes therefore of their consent was entirely put a period to, and Lord Duncan become insensible to his own interest, it, would be vain for me to entertain any future hope of seducing him, should you, rny dear Adelaide, find means to acquaint me of your generous intention, and enable me to purchase a husband. Such * was the contents of her very unkind epistle.
Mrs. Gordon spoke of your unbounded friend ship for me as itdeferved, and informed me your reason for not offering such a present to myself was, you knew a delicacy you acknowledged would be just, would make me refuse it, as it would make me otherwise undergo the censure of the world, who would, with Lady Lorton, say I purchased a husband. In offering it to them it was different, there was more probability of fucceding, as poverty was my crime, and they mercenary; but you find,
H 2 m y
lak THE MUTABILITY OP
my generous friend, that even that would not do — pride interposed. Your affection for me, and attention to my character and rectitude of manners, is, my dear Adelaide, adequate to your own conduct in general. I am surprised, though, you retain so firm a regard for a girl so volatile and giddy as Harriot Meynel : I can only say I am sensible of your kindness, and wish it was in my power to return it.
This Burton is now no more attentive than ever to Mrs. Harpur, and, by her extreme diligence and attention to cant v/ell’s preachment, has been enabled to make a new convert of the Gardener, who is now become regenerate~a new man
— and a saint of the household. This has
\
raised her credit with her Mistress, whom she has now almost got the entire sway of. Positively, Adelaide,, is is very provoking that I cannot Subdue this rebellious Spirit of mine, and teach it to dissemble a little; but when they altogetherjoin in thanks to the Lord for being chosen vessels, I am almost tempted to execrate them for their presumptiom Burton is still Sull of Spleen to me, being heartily vexed with herself for acknowledging her sentiments so openly to me, when she was going to quit the old Dame. I must expect no indulgence
from
H TT ivr A M T. T FT P.
from her; but she is now pretty well at ease upon that store, as she is so fixed in her mistrefs’s favour.
heigh ho! how ridiculous is it that i^ cannot obliterate Charles from my memory. He will soon, blessed with Lady Emma, entirely erase me from his— — he will not; still, if possible, I will flatter myfels that he retains the same esteem for me. — I must believe what you say, Adelaide — I will— — you are not to be informed that I am a very inconsistent creature; you have long known it. Forgive me, receive my grateful thanlis, and be as happy as my wishes can make you, and your merit deserves.
Harriot Mevnel.
'
4>
\
I *
H 3 sr
f
m
'T LT t? art T nr d T? T r r tv' rw?
(
She Marchioness of mei.ville ro ikf^
wieyhel.
.%
Laurel Grove,
J T is now a month my dar Harriot,
since I was received here with the warm
^ %
affection, and the most eondefcend ing apologies made by Lord and Lady Lorton, respecting their former treatment of me. As I am. by no means of ' an irascible disposition, you may conclude we were Soon reconciled. Lady N — — amply repays me now by her extreme kindness. The only Subject ftie displeases me upon, is the Severity She treats my poor melville*s memory with. He unfortunately had strong passions, and gave way to the enjoyment of them too much, by which at length he Sell a Sacrifice in the early part of lise.~he repented, and repaired, in Some degree, the injury he had done me, which denoted a generous dispofition. Few, guilty of the Tame error, would So nobly have conseised the Solly of their conduct, for fear of bringing a sort of odium on their memory; in private they might have repented, but not so publicly have acknowledged it. I cannot, indeed, my dear Harriot, bear to hear him
now
 . ir
now aspersed: nay, I am arr .gralitude bound to respect him, for the care hcroolc, though late, to re eftablish my character, ' and at the same time fettling so ample a " fortune to support the title he bestowed. You are sensible thefe must be my genuine sentiments. Or I should have no occa
fipn to assert them to so sincere a friend
/ *
do not pretend to say that I am inconsolable for the loss of him; that would be hypocrisy.. never having been the man of my choice : but I esteemed him while he treated me with affection, and fmcere ly commiserate his unhappy fate.. As his widow, it is really indecent to permit his' memory to be reviled in my presence, and it is what I will' always make a point to
prevent. Lord and Lady N -- -- -- -- -- -- - insist
upon my Slaying another month; the former is still confined to the house by the gout, but the neighbouring gentry visit us, and, finding me affluent both in fortune and the, favour of my Aunt, treat me with great respect; such are the maxims and policy of the world. Had I appeareds. among them' at the period of my disgrace, what a different treatment should I have. received. Oh! wcrld, world, world) world 1
I hope, my dear Harriot, ycu have o vercome all suspicion prejudicial to Lord
H 4 Duncan
<2 THE MUT abir.lty OP
Duncan, I mean by believing him capable of insicielity. Believe no reports on that point, from Lady Lorton, or those who Surround you; for, be assured by me, no man can more firmly esleem any woman, than his Loishlhip does you. 1 have had two letters since my arrival here from him, with numerous tender inquiries concerning you, entreating me to Sorward a letter from him to you. This I dare not undertake till the interdiction is withdrawn. — Persevere, however, and resign to your disagreeable situation, as the means which will convince Lord and Lady Lorton they wrong you, and that the qualities of your mind are superior to the most, splendid fortune. In one respect, they treat you with more tenderness than their darling fon, which is, by not endeavouring to unite you to some other man; at least, it is tenderness and pride incorporated. Lady Lorton thinks no one that cf late has addressed her niece worthy of her, as they had not a title equal to her ambition. Lord duncan’s perseverance will, I make no doubt, in time overpower their resolutions against his inclination; they will perceive his unhappiness increase, and yield to his w'isties. Yesterday I received a pressing invitation to Elysium Place, from my ever worthy and valuable friend, Mr. Villars, and a few
lines
HUMANLIFE. jr; i
lines frorn his Lady to the same purport. Though it would astbrd me very great pleasure to see them, yet there are reasons which render unacceptable their kind re quesl. My dear Mrs. Gordon talks of yielding to an invitation she has received from them, and tries to overcome my resolution;; affects not tb be convinced of the necessity for my obslinacy on that point; but I am certain her heart acknowledges me in the right.
Mrs. burton’s malignant difpolition is so natural to her, that I cannot help (perhaps too harshly) judging it will end but with her life. She must have some object to gratify her spleen, but she varies her object often i therefore, in turn, you may hope to be relieved. Policy and dissimulation, her own weapons, might gain her favour : a concurrence with her opinion, and bowing to her imaginary superior wisdom, the only means of gaining the name of her friend — She would be favourable to you, because you pleased her vanity — Yet it is a conduct I cannot recommend to you, my dear Harriot; and I am well persuaded you could never put it into practice.
1 am hastily summoned to attend comb
5 pany
54 the MUTABILITY OT
pany — am with reluctance obliged to quit you. Adieu!
Yours affectionately,
Adedaide Melville.
/
Miss Me Y N E L to. the Marchioness of
Melville.
j^urton’s passion for detraction o vercbmes her difembled spirit of methc difm, and proves her not a faithful sister of the Elect. Some fev/ days since ssie entered my apartment with a malevolent smile. Unaccustomed to cheerful looks from her lately, I was going to demand the cause, when her eagerness to communicate prevented me.
“Lord! Miss, What do you think V said she — “What a wicked age we live in 1 — But you must promise not to mention what I am going to tell yon, for it is not proper to be publicly acknowledged, as it would bsing a disgrace on the rest of our faithful brethren — But brother Cantwell — that very Cantwell who has been the means of laving so <¥iany foust~was last night .caught with farmer brown’s wise, who, it is Said, is with child by him. The news was brought to me ui the kitchen about an hour since; upon which that i creature
 . IF
creature Molly (I have no patience with her) fainted. When she recovered, she wept bitterly at his infidelity, and owned she was herself ih a thriving way by him — Fie upom her! My mistress called her to account for defaming that holy man,
but she swore it was truth — Hush! -- -- -- -- -
Lord! Mrs. Harpur is in the next room, ” ' whispered she— —. Miss” ” she aloud, winking at me, ** did you burr know the comfort and consolation of fol' ' the fruits of the spirit— — talking is vain.” - — — So saying she left me in the midst of a loud laugh I could not prevent on the occasion. 1 listened attentively, and found Cantwell himself was in the next room with Dame Harpur. By their conversation 1 likewise found Molly had agreed to settle another father on her child, and that farmer Brown had consented, for the sake of the Elect:, to conceal' the injury he had sustained from Cantwell, who defended his guilt to Mrs; Harpur, and convinced her that true faith was fussicient, independent of works — ■ ^ that it was holy love for his dear sisters made him act as he had done, for to make them the means of bringing more souls to salvation.” Positively, Adelaide, I have no patience to dwell longer on this subject. What a fet of infamous wretches,
to
rfi THK MITT A btt.it Y n V
to make religion a pretence for the greatest crimes!
My Spirits are much exhilerated by the account you give me of charles’s conslant affection. Men in general are Such a Set of fickle wretches, that it is dangerous to put our happiness in their power, which we do when we esteem one particularly. I have made use of a pretty delicate word, Adelaide, instead of that gross one, love — * Commend me for it. My vow witholds me from comsorting my coiisin by any mefsige, but I please mysels by thinking he from you is acquainted that 1 am in health, Spite of our Separation.
Oh I what pleasure— — what pain —
\
In thinking of an absent fwainj
What a Set of ridiculous mortals are lovers! One moment by Doubt almost plunged into despair, the next elevated by Hope. Different passions alternately Succeed each other, and make them appear the children of Folly.
Bui tonne gives me more of her company than usual, because I am the only peison here she dares mention the Srailty of Cantwell to. She is continually dwelling on that Subject, and is happy I agree with
her he is culpable. Perhaps it is the firss:
time.
 . lo
time She has with justice censured. However, Ihe has reported me more favourably to Mrs. Harpur, Sori am permitted to walk in the garden and adjoining labyrinth with her. We were walking in the latter place last night, when a very handsome young man, drelsed in taste, passed us, with a book in his hand. He bowtd refpedsully in passing. I asked Burton from whence he came — She Smiled — Said he was a man of note, but would resoive me no Surther. “Peace go with him, ’* returned I, and tempted her no more to forego a Secret she Seemed willing to retain.
I hope, my dear, generous, friendly Adelaide will let me very Soon hear Srosh her, which is the only pleasure at present can be experienced by her most affectionate
Harriot Meynel.
she Marchioness of Melville to Miss
Meynel.
Lord and Lady N -- -- -- -- are So kind as
to insist that my Stay here has been but of short duration, though it is three months Since my first arrival. I complied with my aunt’s request of continuing till his Lordship recovered, to dissipate her anxiety on his account, and if possible render
iier
ck THF; MTITABILTTY OF
her more cheerful. That excuse is over,
Lord N -- -- -- is perfectly well; and I have
an earnest: desire to pafs sometime at * Melville park, a place I have heard much admired. It would give me additional satisfaction if they would acccmpany me, but all my entreaties are not powerful enough they will not comply.
Mrs. Gordon, however, laid aside her intention of going to elysium place, and has proniised me the happiness of her company to Melville park. Ah! my dearest Harriot, could Lady Lorton be persuaded to intrust you to my care, what inexpres sible pleasure would it give me — but I must dwell no longer bn that Subject,, as you are convinced or beirg in possession of the first place in my friendship.
Lord and Lady Walters are gone tc France. I have had invitations to the
Summer residences of the Duke of -- -- -- -- -,
Lord and Lady Lovemore, cc. and returned as polite resusals as I could Srame.; I in reality chuse to be more retired during my year of mourning than I possibly could be at their houses. Next week I shall be at London Sora Sew days, while Melville park is preparing for the reception of dear
* A (eat the Marqtiis had left her, situate in’ H -- -- (hire.
m
Mrs.
 . kq
Mrs. Gordon and myself. There, undoubtedly, J Shall See Lord Duncan, and be able to inform you of his health.
Adieu .1
A. Melville.
she Marchioness of Melville mijf
Meynel '
O'. palfmaw.
1 HE melancholy Scenes' which passed here six months since are more powerfully renewed to ray remembrance by being on the spot, and determine me to seek out another house for my winter residence. This will occasion my Slay in town a little longer than I intended. I am told Lady Myntor is inclined to part with hers in grosvenor square, a situation I much approve,. and hope it will be surrendered to my wishes.
I have seen Lord Dunean, my dear Harriot, who asked me more questions about you than I could resolve. He, like all absent lovers, thinks each hour a month, each day a year.
“Fear, Hope, Despair, and Grief alternate reign,
Rack his fonss heart, and torture ev’ry vein.”
The ■
io
The account you give of yourself in your last; epistle, my dear Harriot, avows similar sensations, therefore you may the more readily credit my report.
Though I do not condemn Lord Duncan, I cannot help commiserating poor Lady Emma for being obliged to endure his scorn and inattention — a treatment disagreeable to receive, and caused by the folly of parents, who endeavour to force what will not be commanded. Lady Emma unfortunately had an attachment to your cousin; the command of her father might heighten it; vidiich must render her wretched.. She finds herself Sighted by the very man stie wished most to please, and, if poitessed of generosity, must be still more miserable at the idea of causing him do much inquietude on her account, and the ressection that if fie is compelled to wed her she must experience the most cruel indifference from him, a another postelfes his heart. .Make a comparison, my dearhar riot, between her unhappy situation and yourown — it balances in your favour~you have reason to rejoice in the affection of so eonftant a lover. My time will be taken up while 1 remain in town with different affairs I have to transact, but from Mel
viile*paisk you Sliali have a further account
of
HUMANLIFE. ifii
of Lord Duncan. Adieu! my dear friend.
A. Melville.
Mrs, Gordon to Miss Meynel.
pahmall.
Dear Miss Meynel,
Our amiable friend the Marchioness, having many little affairs to adjust, as we leave town tomorrow, and finding I was a letter in arrear to you, desired me to settle it at this period, as (he had not time herself to' inform you She has really taken Lady myntor’s house. I have Something to impart, likewise, concerning Lord Duncan; but, alas! I Sear it will rather dis trefs my dear miss Meynel.
Lord Villars this morning Sent a note to my house in B Street, purporting a desire of a private audience, to which I returned, I was ready to receive him. He came. The cause of his visit was Soon communicated. Lord Duncan had hinted to Lady Melville his deiign of an altercation with Lord and Lady Lorton, which Ihe had dissuaded him from. Lord Villars, it Seems, had done the Same to no purpose. He pursued his intention, but could by no means persuade them to consent to his desires
'T TT t7 aft t^rat?tt T'TV
A ^
fires. Finding their perseverance, as he imagined, unconquerable, he took a rtfe lution to go abroad, and, under pretence of visiting a friend in the country, packed up his clothes, and immediately repajred to. Dover, from whence he wrote to Lord Villars an account of his ill' success, and resolution of quitting England for ever, unless they would agree to his marriage with his lovely cousm. He likewise in treated his friend, at the Same time, to conceal his place of residence from every one but yourself, Lady Melville, and your present correspondent — begged to hear from him Soon, that he wtuld direct his letter by another name, enelosed to mons. B— — Rheims, acquainting him bow Lord and Lady Lorton underwent the loss of him, c— — he could not avoid reflecting on himself for causing them So much trouble, but that, on so serious a point as that of happiness or misery for .life, she could not comply with their wishes— — concluded his letter to Lord Villars with informing him he was jusf embarking for Calais, his heart occupied with the idea of his dear Harriot, whom he hoped Lady Melville would assure ol his constancy and affection. She is just entered, and Says she will write on a fev/ lines,. I resign my pen. — —
Lad]
HOMAN LIFE. 163
\
Lady Melville, to Miss Meynel.
I FLATTER myself that my dear friend will not afflict herself for the departure of her worthy lover, because it proves the extent of his affection for my amiable Harriot; and though I said everything I could to make him desist from proceeding to an open rupture with Lord and Lord and Lady Lorton, yet I cannot now be sorry for it, as I retain some hopes that the loss of his company will affect their tenderness for him, and in the end make them consent to your mutual happiness. At any, rate you should not make yourself unhappy, my dear friend, as it frees him from a wearisome persecution. Let me hear soon that you are reconciled to his departure. Time will not permit me to say more.
A. Melville;.
f
• V /
Mrs. Gordon, in Continuation.
{
YOU desire to be informed, dear Miss Meynel, concerning Lord Villars conduct in regard to Lady Melville, and if She has had an interview with him since the marquis’s death. You guessed right indeed, wlien you imagined she would be displeased.
6a THF mutabir.tty OF
ed with you if you wrote to her on that subject, for (he will not suffer me to make use of his name but as an indifferent person. His lordship, since his first knowledge of her, has behaved with such respect and propriety, notwithstanding his violent passion, that it has exceedingly surprised me, and I believe has heightened Lady melville’s esteem for him. After the marquis’s death, he sent compliments of condolence, and inquiry after her health, as a distant friend would. She changed colour, and returned the common answer. There it dropped; for he never attempted to visit her before she went to Laurel grove, or since her return: but Lord Duncan informed me he was in continual doubts and fear, lest She Should reject him when the period arrived that he might address her. He talked of her to me this morning in rapture, and entreated me, for compassion’s sake, to inform him whether I was disagreeable to her? or whether, when her year of mourning was expired, she would reject his addresses?? was necessary to conceal what little knowledge I had of her sentiments of him; therefore answered it was out of my power to o biige him.
“Alas I your friend despises me, then, ” Said he. “How wretched must I be!”
I
HUMANLIFE. 16-;
0 '
I entreated him not to cherish so unfavourable an opinion of himself, since I did not doubt but on his uncle’s account he was poffelfed of her good w'isties and friendship.
C She flattered me so once, Mrs. Gordon, ” returned he, with a sigh; but friendship alone — — Oh !” -- -- -- --
“don’t indulge Despair” ” I, with a smile“ “will unravel Lady melville’s sentiments. Take my advice, my Lord; cherish Hope till you have reason for the contrary passion.”
He bowed, thanked me for my kindness, and soon after retired.
I ventured to cell Lady Melville that his Lordship had made numerous inquiries after her — sighed much — and wished to see her, c— — = —
“my dear Mrs. Gordon, ” said she, interrupting me; “I am obliged to Lord Villars for his friendship, but muss; entreat you will speak of him to me only as of a common acquaintance. I have been, under great obligations to his worthy uncle i therefore, if at the expiration of my mourning he chooses to visit me on the footing of an acquaintance only, he is welcome; the world then cannot censure me. — I see you smile, my dear friend, ” added she i “but you are mistaken in my sentiments

ments. At present I will say no more.”
Thus our conversation ended.
It gives me great pleasure to'reflect that rwo such amiable people will in time be united, as their valuable qualifications will make themselves happy and all around them. Lady Melville has amply rewarded all those who treated her with humanity during her misfortunes, and Says she has nothing now to wish for but the enjoyment of your company, which she has been So long deprived of. You may be certain, dear Miss Meynel, that my wishes to See you are the Same, and that you are constantly in our thoughts and conversation. None can have a sincerer friendship for you than
Sarah Gordon.
f
r
N
0
% - ' ' ' ’ Si V V
>
Miss
HUMAN T.TFP • .r
%
Miss Meynell to the Marchioness of Melville,.
So poor Charles is gone to seek adventures for the sake of his Dulcinea. He is undoubtedly a constant swain;; I have still some fears, Adelaide, lest some of the ladies at Rheims Should, entrap him with their wit and vivacity i — Then adieu fidelity and Harriot. Lady Emma was Jiill ///^ — contrary to his taste — But what Signifies I If he gains a new love, I Shall regain my liberty. -- -- Then again something
whispers, What signifies liberty when the heart is tortured and enslaved??
— true, good Mr. Monitor. — Alas! Adelaide, it is very provoking for such a — lively spirit as mine to be reduced to this — heigho! — Sighing state. ^ However, according to your commands I conclude by hoping the best.
I am continually wishing to see you : but had I an opportunity to elope from hence and pay you a visit, it would be entirely withdrawing myself from Lady lorton’s protection — She would never forgive me — She would abandon me for ever, and — No, Adelaide, she shall
not
X
* i
J
bs THE MTIT ABIT.TTY OP
not have reason to blame my conduct, however unkind she treats me.
Heavens bless my dear Charles! May pleasing reflections attend his Solitary hours, is he has any, and yours likewise. Adieu i
■ Harrriot Meynel. Ld. Villars to Ld, Duncan iz/rheims,
For TUNE begins to favour thee,
Charles. Lord A — ~’s eyes are at last enlightened, and by your flight he is Sufficiently convinced that you mean not to marry his daughter. This has roused his sensibility : he is enraged with Lord Lorton, as well as yourself, for the flight Lady emma’s charms undergo. The old Marquis of, at a convenient period,
proposes for her ladyship: Lord
A -- -- seems inclined to favour him; but
L am told the poor Lady is not willing to become such a facrisice. As I visit his lordship, though so particular a friend of yours, I ventured to his house: : exclaimed much against you, and questioned me whether I thought his daughter so very undeserving a young man’s regard. I, in my answer, did Lady emma’s
charms
  I F E. i shn
charms due justice, and alleged in your defence, a prior engagement. I believe, Duncan, I may tell tell thee, without being guilty of vanity, that, had I offer‘d ed myself for a fon in law at that period, his Lordship would have favoured me as much as the Marquis of I was
united that evening to a rout at his house; which invitatien I accepted, on purpose to see how Lady Emma looked after your provoking insult to her beauty.
She coloured much at my firshaddref fing her; but recovering laerfelf, You see, my Lord, ” said she with a faint Smile, “I still exist, though Lord Duncan has insulted and deserted me.”
I vindicated your conduct, and fet it in its proper light.*’
“Lord Villars’ eloquence always deserves attention, ’” returned she, with an effected courtesy and manner I never before observed her to make use of. “Lord Duncaffs rudenels. or inattention, as you plea to term it, was indeed very visible frossi our Erst acquaintance— — certainly wa^^not guilty of much dissimulation, Tny Ibrd.;.; it was very happy for me that nty heart was likewise engaged to an object more worthy rhy regard, '*’ Said Sne (blushing, with vexation, I fuppos, Charies)~ “though, perhaps, there are
I insurmouiit
Q THF MTTTAP. TT V ni?
insurmountable diffigulties between iir, which can never be got the better of.” So saying, she hurried from me to another part of the room. From her manner it is visible her heart is wounded; but I imagine she was desirous; through rriy means, you might have reason to think your conduct gave her no pain. Poor girl 1 she is sincerely to be pitied : but I should have admired her more, if we had not endeavoured to be guilty of diffirnulation.
Lord and Lady Lorton are mhch affected at your departure, Duncan. They sent for me, and made efforts to learn where you are gone; but, according to your desire, (though I pitied their anxiety,) I concealed my knowledge of it. We had a long conversation, in which I took the liberty to recommend your interest and Miss meynel’s. To rouse their fears, too, Charles, I pointed out what ill consequences might ensue from their obstinacy; brought proofs of several young fellows in similar cafes, who, from shfappointments, gave themselves up to despair from not being permitted to enter into a virtuous connexion with the women of their choice • — afterwards relapsed into the most abandoned morals and led the most prossigate and difgracefu] lives. I dwelled on the subject, in hopes of favouring your wishes,
by
urttv/taxt T tttit
mm ^ 99 m w ^ m ■
3y awakening their fears. They did me; he honour to listen to my harangue, and when I took my leave pressfed me to visit
them often, as usual. Lord A -- -- -- -- -- ’s
ft armth has rather incensed your father, therefore I have hopes you will arrive at the completion of your wisshes.
The lovely Marchioness is gone to mel dlle park, accompanied by that friendly, worthy woman, Mrs. Gordon, who hath promised, at a proper period, to plead in my favour with the most amiable of women. Three months still have I to wait, Duncan : how has my patience been put to the trial! — But could She then be persuaded to listen to me, it would amply recompense for what I have endured. Should (he reject me— — mush not harbour the idea; it would overpower my reason. At Elysium place she Savoured me with her esteem and friendship; her eyes said more. But then that cruel conversation Ihe had with Lady Di Horton concerning divorces occurs to my memory. Should those be her real sentiments, I must still be miserable— — no, I will not think of it — it was only a transitory dispute to oppose Lady Di. Lovers reason like madmen, Charles. I will relieve thee.
Adieu!
villars.
T crt ^
172
N
f
The .marfhionefs ©S’ Melville to Miss
Mrynel.
f
Melville park.
OU guess the situation of this place from the date of my letter: it stands in a Small park; the .gardens are extensive., and well laid out, my dear Harriotbut, as I flatter myself you will soon be permitted to take a view of them, I Shall desist from a further description.
Lord A -- -- -- and your uncle are at variance,
which gives your friends hope that your return home will be the cohfequence. Ah! my dearest Harriot, how happy will be our meeting after so tedious an absence! I can never fussiciently adare the ways of Providence for having restored me to affluence and ease. Tour; dear company will complete my felicity.
There are several agreeable families Surround me, who have honoured me with their company. Mrs. Gordon and your Adelaide frequently amuse themselves by visiting the little cottages around. How pleasing is it, my dear friend, to encourage industry,! and how .charming to relieve the distreffes of those
whom
 . 173
whom illness or misfortune has brought to inevitable want 1 What a solid satisfaction is vibrated on the heart that is thus employed! How much better money and time so expended, than sums lavished on what are generally called pleasures, but are in reality vanities and fripperies of life!
The Hon. Mr. and Mrs. C -- -- -- -- have
4
favoured me with their company: their stay is never long in this neighbourhood, I am told, as they are a very polite couple, and detest: solitude. They despise my want of taste, are amazed at my mean condescension in conversing with a parcel of Hottentots, as they term the cottagers, and divert themselves exceedingly at my vulgar amusement. Adieu! my dearest friend.
9
A. Melville.
Miss Meynel to the Marchioness of
Melville.
ican scarce hold my pen for joy! That dear, benevolent, friendly Adonis, Lord Villars has by his uncommon eloquence overcome Lord and Lady lorton’s objection against my union with Charles. — — — * “My aunt owns, in her letter, it was his just reasoning made them consent. J am every moment ex
I 3 pecting
74
pecting Thomas, who is to attend me to London. Lord Duncan has been written for to return home, but you undoubtedly have been informed of it by the man who is most worthy your esleem. Forgive me, Adelaide; your year of mourning is just at its expiration, and I have long Sorbore mentioning his name. Surely, when decency permits, you will give him leave to plead his cause; his merit deserves to be rewarded by the only woman who is ca pal le of doing it. Has he not, notwithstanding the predominance of his unbounded passion for you, while your Situation made it criminal for him to acknowledge it, strove to conceal it,, and made it apparent only by die height of friendship and esteem? What man, So situated, could behave with such propriety, except himself.? Indeed, Adelaide, if by an ill timed prudery you forego happiness by joining with such a mate, I must say you deserve misery. Mrs. Gordon tells me you will not suffer her to mention his name. What can you mean by meditating cruelty? I shall insist upon a confession when we meet which I hope will be soon. Conveniently I shall arrive, as ycur friend is o shliged to leave you.
The young man I mentioned to you, that 1 met sometime since, was the husband

 . 175
band of Lady Di Horton, who came to this neighbourhood for a few days. She is in safe confinement in Cornwall, where she is likely to terminate her days.
Thomas is arrived; and, thanks to Heaven, tomorrow I leave this dreary, solitary place, and the society of Croakers. Burton is wonderful civil, and Dame Harpur not Sorry to part with her resractory charge. Adieu J my dear girl.
Harriot Meynel.
From the Same to the Same.
London.
Tlif
LVAY Amyntor is returned, and full of
joy at his parents goodness, and ecslacy at hissoreseen happiness — 1 mean what he ih hope foresees. Lord and Lady Lorton, Since they have consented to our union, are willing it Should be Soon, and all things are preparing. I intend, therefore, with my Suture guide, to pass a Sew days at Meiville paiic, by which time your mourning will be laid aside, and I shall insist upon your returning hither with us. Pot Sitively, Adelaide, you ought to countenance me by appearing at the altar, and fixing Lord Villars happiness. You are under many obligations to that Wur thy
friend
76
friend of ours — you esteem, nay you love him — How ridiculous, then, it is to render him unhappy by a peculiar fancy of your own, formed only to embitter both your lives. Ygu have paid sufficient respect to the marquis’s memory; and positively, Adelaide, if you continue obstinate in your strange whim, I Shall be almost ready to forswear your friendship, though 1 have been so much obliged to you.
Lord Villars has seen Clairville, who is exceedingly dejected at your refusing him again, and is determined to make a trial whether fait water will extinguish his flame.
Fie, fie, Adelaide, you make strange work among the men. Here is Lord M— — in the dumps, sighing after “the adorable, insensible Marchioness” ” he terms you. 1 am sometimes almost tempted to bring them with me to Melville park, where, if you continue obdurate, they may put a period to their raifery in your willow grove. If it should so happen, a monument shall be raised to their memory, recording their misfortunes, with the following epitaph :
Fair Adelaide was the cruel cause We thus fijibvei ted nature’s laws j Weary of the sffiidting pain Occasioned by her disdain,
We
HUMANLIFE., 177
We wandered here — and here you see.
We found the means ourselves to free.
Take warning, reader; gaard your heart From hopeless love, and cupid’s dart.
Notwithstanding my raillery, I Shall become serious concerning Villars as he is not an object to be trifled wuth; so prepare yourself for an altercation, if you don’t coincide with my opininion. Blessings attend you, my dear friend; forgive my freedom; and believe me always
Your affectionate
Harriot Meynel.
she Countess of waltersio the Marchig
nefs of Melville.
Paris.
Ma cheer niece,
I knew you were bigoted to the to the folly of decorum, notwithstanding all Count St. lou’s intreahes, I Sorebore writing to you in his favoiist Sooner, flattering mysels that at what you term a proper period my recommendation would be more regarded. Vous savez, ma cheer Lady Melville, que — but I forget English is most pleasing to you. — You know then, my dear niece, that the Count has a fine soltune, and long has doted on you to
distraction
78
distraction; he bids me say it was the force of that passion made him culpable — But he has often told you so, Lady Melville; I need not repeat it. — You must be long since convinced of your power over him, and, I think, if you are mistress of your senses, will not refuse so polished a young, nobleman; one whose life will be spent in endeavouring to form the happiness of yours. Lord Walters joins with me in earnest wishes for the accomplishment of this union. — The count is flying on the Wings of love to England, and I have defined him to deliver this himself to you. Adieu, ma cheer fille. Adieu.
J. Walters,
Q
The Marchioness of Melville to Mrs.
Gordon, with the foregoing enclosed,
O U will find by the enclosed, my dear Mrs. Gordon, poor Lady Walters continues as volatile as ever. What a misfortune is it, that at her time of life she will not afford some moments to reflection. The least attention at the time she wrote, must have pointed out to her the impropriety cf her recommendation.
No
 . 1)9
No one, I think, but herself, could have desired such a union.
Count St. Lou had really the audacity to bring the letter to Melville park. My servants conducted him into a parlour, and informed me a gentleman from France desired to see me, — he came from Lady Walters, and had a letter. Luckily Annette recollected there was a piece of mns^ lin and other things left littering in the room the stranger was in, and asked if she had not better remove them. 1 answered in the affirmative, and bid her remark whether she had ever seen the gentleman
a »
before, when in Paris with me. She hasted to execute my commission, and returned in the utmost ccnsternation, exclaiming,
“Count St. Lou, my Lady!” I must own, his name affected me for a few mi nntes, as it recalled some disagreeable circumstances; but recovering myself, I sent Annette to hirn with my compliments, and that if he had a letter from Lady Walters, he must deliver it to her, for I never would speak to him more, and entreated he would leave the house. Several messages past before he would take his departure, but at last finding me resolute, he was obliged to go. He has wrote to me since, which letter I would not have received had I knows its authors
but
3o
but I have dwelled too long on so disagreeable a subject.
My dear Flarriot is here, all health and spirits. Lord Duncan likewise. In a few days I shall attend them to town, to see them united beyond the power of a separation but by death. May they long enjoy the felicity they deserve!! soon as they are married. Lord and Lady Lorton will fet off with them to Myrtle Hall. By that time I hope you will be able to come to London. Adieu, my amiable friend.
Yours, ca.
Melville. Marchioness ^melvflle to Mrs,
G O R D O
Grofvenor square.
Mr dearest; Harriot yesterday became
a wife : her friend, miss Archer, attended as bride maid, and Lord Villars as groomfman; Lord Lorton, his Lady, and myself, cornpleated the company. She gave her hand with pleasure and cheerfulness, and Lord Duncan received it with inexpressible joy. The carriages were ready at the door to convey all the company but me to Myrtle Flail. I endured many reproaches
 . ii
proaches for my obstinacy, but alas! my dear friend, you know it is necessary for my repose. Since my arrival in town. Lord Villars in a manner but too well calculated to affect any woman’s heart, addressed me; his respectful pleasing manner increased that esteem and regard for him which I have long involuntarily entertained. I candidly recited my reasons for refusing him, acknowledging at the same time my friendship; and that, was he, according to my idea, at liberty to marry, he should have the preference. You may be assured, my dearest friend, he made use of the most powerful arguments to confute my opinion, but in vain; it is a point of conscience wtiich the most learned in disputation can never eradicate from my breast; It causes me great affliction to think I am the means of make ing so worthy an object unhappy; and to redress if possible his unhappiness and my own, by avoiding his presence, I am determined immediately to fet out to Laurel Grove from whence I have received so many kind invitations — there I will continue for sometime. Alas! — I cannot express my misery, dear Mrs. Gordon, — but I must not marry Lord Villars, whatever may be my partiality for him, — my God forbids it, — I dare not disobey. People
82
pie frequently justify their own misconduct by the practice of others. ^ The friends they were connected with perhaps erred: but is that any good reason for following a vicious example } But, my dear friend, we should never purfiie a multitude to do evil. Because divorces by legislative power are allowed lawful, I am not to accept the opinion of those who vindicate that law, and think so too. It is the fashion to keep mistreffes, — men appear in public with them, tho’ they have amiable deserving wives; but its being a common practice and vice of the age, does not exculpate, but rather aggravate the guilt. li centioufnefs is still a crime, tho’ the virtuous part of mankind do not treat the perpetrators of it in the manner they deserve. If vices were more discountenanced, they would not be quite so common,; at least they would be more concealed, which would be advantageous, as III example is frequently too prevalent.
As a small token of my friendship for dear Harriot, I have presented her a fet of jewels, not of value equal to my wishes,, because I knew she would not accept of what she would term too costly a present.
May
)
HUMANLIFE. 18?
0’'
May she live long to enjoy them! As for me, Heaven only knows my fate.
Adieu,
A. Melville.
Lord Villars to the Marchioness of
Melville.
It was a fussicient punishment, most amiable Lady Melville, to be excluded from addressing you, without being deprived of your presence and friendship; but every action of yours causes admiration, because it proceeds from gene rosity and benevolence — you fled thinking it necessary for my repose. Alas! Madam, tranquillity' has long taken flight from my bosom, but your presence as a
friend, and engaging conversation, would
preserve me from immerging into despair. Why! O why! lovely Lady Melville, will you persevere in So cruel a resolution } You insist that Scripture disallows a divorced person to marry, and that you must be guided by that. Forgive me, Madam, is I again allege to the contrary; from Scripture I can prove it : but you will not .be convinced, and I
dare
84.
dare not offend you further, by dwelling upon a subject you so often have commanded me to be filent on. — I will cease complaining to my friends — I will repair to some dreary solitude, and pafs my days and nights in mifery.~yet why do I, by reciting my unhappy state, affect so humane a heart, which from the most refined motives rejects me .?I am torn by contending passions, my amiable friend.
-- -- -1 admire, I adore you more than
ever, l renounce my own judgement, and adopt yours, — the next moment I disavow it: — in Short, that I am in a state of distraction, is almost certain. An obdurate farther compelled me to wed Lady Mary, whose conduct I difdpproved before She became my wife.~aftcrwardsftie be camepublicly criminal: — my idea of happiness was fixed in a family way, and there ail hopes were put a'period to — we were separated by the laws of God and man
-- -- But I again relapse— —! Lady
Melville, you almost deprive me of my reason. If you have any compassion for the wretch who writes to you, afford him one line of comsort to cheer his heart in the desponding state it at present experiences. Believe, worthy Lady Melville, that my continual wisties
are
 . 185
4
are for your happiness, and that while I exist, I Shall be
Your most respectful,
Affectionate humble Servant,,
Villars.
she Marchioness of Melville to Lord
Villars.
laureigrove,
My Lord,
{^EING of a difpositshn that disdains to conceal its sentiments, you will not be surprised if I am guilty of impropriety, in acknowledging that your letter occasioned great anxiety of mind, as I sincerely commiserate your misfortunes. It was my esteem and friendship that prompted me to avoid you. I most sincerely wish your Lordship repose and happiness: : and the absence of her who new causes your affliction, may effect it; it is the only means left in my power to re establilh your peace of mind.
My conscience dictates these sentiments, from which I dare not deviate. As this is the last letter I shall ever write upon the subject, 1 will take the liberty
to
s6
V
to quote from Holy w^’rit the portions which have fixed an opinion I shall never alter. In the tenth chapter of St. Mark, we read as follows :
“And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is ir lawful for a man to put away his wife .^ tempting him. And be answered and said unto them. What did Moses command you I And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away. And Jefiis answered and said unto them, For the liardnefs of your hearts he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning of the creation God made thesh male and female, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife and they twain shall be one flesh; so then they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together let no man put asunder. And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter : and he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife and marry another, committetbadukrey against her; and if a woman shall piit away her husband and be married to another, she cojnmitteth adultery.”
Again, in the sixteenth chapter of St.
Luke: ‘‘whofoever putteth away his wife and marrieth another, committeth
adultery;
 . 187
adultery; and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband, committeth adultery.”
These, ray Lord, conjoined, are our redeemer’s words, and are to me convincing. Such a command, I repeat, I dare not deviate from.
His Apostles preached his blessed doctrine. St. Paul says, in the 7th Chapter of his Epistle to the Romans, “The woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he liveth;; if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband: So then, if while her husband liveth she be married to another man, she shall be called an adultress; but if her husband be dead, she is Sree from that law; So that she is no aduitress, though she be married to another man.”
This proves plainly, my Lord, we liiould be dead to the old law, that is, the law of moses, concerning divorces, and, alive otherwise, be guided by the new law, viz. that of the Saviour of the world, who came to give a law unto us, and redeem us.
St. Paul likewise, in his Epistles to the Corinthians, Says, The wise is bound by the law as long, as her husband liveth j but
ir
88
I
if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to be married.’’
J
these, my Lord, are the weighty proofs which overthrow all your lordship’s arguments, consequently those of all the rest of my friends, on this Subject. I must theresore entreat to hear no more on a point wherein I am determined to remain inflexible. If it will afford you any relief, or satisfaction, to think I will never marry another, be assured of it, as none but Lord Villars can ever be firmly possessed of my utmost esteem and friendship.
When I return to Grofvenor square, I shall be proud to receive your Lordship, on public days, with the rest of my friends; but after what has passed, must be excused from admitting you, my Lord, when a lone.
I am with true esteem.
Your lordship’s obedient servant,
A. Melville.
Lady Duncan to the Marchioness of
Melville.
JL O confess the truth, Adelaide, it is
with reluctance I of late lit down to write to you. The cause is evident~my pen will always mark down the sentiments of my heart — My heart condemns your conduct
t
,  . isg
duct to Lord Villars, and I cannot forbear continually chiding you — It at the same time reminds me that I am under the greatest obligations to you on many accounts, therefore it is the height of impertinence for me to be continually tormenting and reproving you — But my gratitude and friendship, it again answers, require my interfering on a point which your happiness is so much concerned in. You are to be informed I always was a pert chit, therefore I cannot change Nature; besides, my dearee here is rather wroth about your cruelty to his inestimable friend, who is continually writing most lamentable epistles concerning his truly tragic state. — Indeed, he is in a piteous plight. Positively your opinion on divorces is very unjust, Adelaide; for in^ stance, this poor man in question.~his wife grew frisky, and dishonoured him — ' Well, you grantut proper he should gain a divorce from her — But then he must lead a solitary life, without a helpmate or companion, because she has gone astray,; so that he is to suffer all his Life for her crimes. Pray what justice can you allege in that, my obstinate friend } Lady Mary may live years, in which time Lord Villars and yourself may become victims to your
absurd whimi Oh I fie, Adelaide; for
the
\
oo
the love of us all, be more complying, for when we reflect on the consequence that may ensiie from your adherence to a false principle, we tremble for ycur destiny. Villars adores you so, that he is now, I believe, almost persuaded you are right— — you have long since deprived him of reason. What a Syren you are I
You take Scripture for your guide, a delaide; the 5th of St. Matthew Says divorces were not lawsul except in cases of Sornication : that is a strong proof a gainst you, my dear perverse one — Reflect on it, and take compassion on poor Villars.
Archer has had a letter from her Sister, who, it Seems, is in Lady emma’s confidence. Poor Lady Emma has been dan geroussy ill with a Sever, in which she was delirious, and raved incessantly on Lord
Villars. Lord A -- -- -- --, who dotes on his
daughter, desired Miss Flora Archer to question her concerning his Lordship, when she had intervals of sense. He always imagined she liked my Duncan, till then. She conseffed to Miss Flora, that she had long loved Lord Villars, and had of late entertained hopes that she was not disagreeable to him, but that the news of his being on the point of marriage with Lady Melville quite overpowered and reduced
HUMANLIFE. loi
duced hertoher present languid state. Miss
Flora informed Lord A -- -- -- -- - —, unknown
to Lady Emma, who, having heard of your refusal to Villars, has resolved to propose his daughter for him. The Marquis of — ' — - has been sometime discarded.
My .friend archer’s lover, I find, is eldest brother to the identical Capt. F— — Lady Villas was guilty oc crim. con. with. The Captain, it seems; is coming to England, but informs his brother he shall leave her Ladyship behind in Holland.
Lord Duncan desires his best respects to you, and bids me add, from him that you are a very unreasonable, cruel female. Forgive us, Adelaide, for the liberty we take in censuring your conduct;
but positively we cannot avoid it, when
• ^
we reflect what an enemy you are to your own peace of mind and happiness.
Before I conclude I must recite an anecdote concerning Lord Villars, which will increase your regard of him as well as mine. My better half here recited it to me. When Lord Villars was at college, he was intimate with Mr. Wilde, and at a vacation complied with his entreaty
\
!q2
treaty of spending sometime with his friend. That young gentleman had only a mother living, with whom he resided. Mrs. Wilde lived always in the country, and used frequently to invite a Miss Hall to pafs some months with her, she being a lively girl, and entertaining company. Miss Hall was the daughter of a neighbouring parson, who had several other children, and, what is commonly the cafe, you know, Adelaide, had nothing to leave them at his decease. She was four or five years older than Mr. Wilde. A Sew days after Lord \ illars arrived at his friend’s, he perceived the young people were lovers, and rallied Wilde on the occasion. Saying, at the Same time, he feared Mrs. Wilde would not approve of miss Hall on account of her want of
fortune, -- -- “Pshaw! — d mn*d stuff!”
replied Wilde; “Why, you don’t think I would be So mean Spirited as to marry Such a girl? — Nono, I intend having her at a cheaper rate than that, Villars. She will soon, I hope, gratify my wishes, for she begins to be complying; and, if you like her, will then turn her over to you.”
Villars, sh return, made a speech of an hour long on the villainy of such a conduct, and the crime of seducing innocence :
 . 193
cence: but his harangue was to no purpose; Wilde said he was determined to proceed as he had intended, and with an oath told his Lordship not to spoil sport.
It was night when this conversation happened. The chaste Lord Villars could not, steep; he was all night considering how he should preserve the poor girl from ruin.
He rose very early, and went to the most retired walks in the garden. His reverie was of short duration, as he heard voices which he soon found were wilde’s and Miss halss. Mr. Wilde convinced the poor girl, by the most artful manner, that at that period he could not marry her; but if she would comply with his wishes, the next term he would contrive means of conveying her to London, and there marry her. She answered, in return, “that she could not indeed yield her honour to him, because probably afterwards he would be loth to marry her.” Adong discourse ensued, which ended in his victory~she promised to admit him to her chamber that very night, and they parted.
Lord Villars was still more shodked at this seen: he revolved many schemes to withdraw her immediately from wilde’s power; at last he fixed on one, which was to inform Mr. wilde’s aunt of it, wlio was a good religious woman, and lived
K about
QA
about eight miles off. He immediately Repaired there, and informed Mrs. Gill of it. The good lady was much affected at the news, and told Lord Villars She would go there to dinner, and bring Miss Hall home with her that night, where she should remain till a plan could be fettled to withdraw her entirely from her nephew. As her reason to her filler Wilde, she would allege fear that her nephew would marry miss Hall. Things being thus fettled, Lord Villars called on a gentleman, and brought him to wilde’s to dinner; at which time Mrs. Gill arrived, as if by accident, and took Miss Hall with her, as concerted. The young lady was very loth to go, and Mr. Wilde quite in a passion at her depaiture. When alone with Lord Villars, he attacked him with being the contriver of Miss hall’s being taken away. His Lordship did not totally deny it. Several words ensued: : Villars quitted the house with a tranquil conscience for having done his duty in saving a young creature from infamy and ruin. He did not Slop there; he wrote to miss Hall, advising her, as a friend, to beware of the future Seduction of Mr. Wilde, who was bent on her ruin. He displayed to her the misery that must ensue after her
deviation from virtue, for that her fediv
cer
U TT AT A M T T F F.
r
cer would never marry her; therefore affliction and misery mull be the portion of her family as well as herself. It was Mrs. Gill that informed Duncan of this affair. She said the girl was exceedingly affected at Lord Villars’ uncommon humanity and compassion for a stranger, and with tears of contrition (hewed his letter to her, entreating her aid to protect her from a man Ihe owned she loved too well, notwithstanding his cruelty to her. Mrs. Gill pitied her much, and contrived to send her to a worthy friend of hers, where stie might remain some months in safety from the allurements of Mr. Wilde. There a gentleman of small fortune saw her— — her — and sometime after they were united; the consequence of which was she soon despised her libertine lover as much as she once loved him. Thus ends my story, Adelaide; and high time it is
to lay aside my pen, when I have said that I am
Yours most affectionately,
i
H arriot Duncan.
K z The
o6
The Marchioness 0/ Melvilte to. Lady
Duncan.
V
Laurel Grove.
. / »
Cruel Harriot! Surely your affection
for me is lessened Since your marriage, or you could never So Slrenuoufly endeavour by various arguments to aggravate my affliction. You well know my esleem for Lord Villars, and you know that I am but too well convinced of his merit; why, then. Should you Slrive to heighten that unfortunate affection by reciting anecdotes which muff, if possible, add to my grief, by reflecting that i can never be the wife of a man who hath so exalted a character.
My ideas on divorces, I still maintain, are not unjusl. I grant, that wssi^n a w'o man is criminal, a divorce is necessary, but then neither of the parties ought to'marry again; it Should only be a divorce from bed and board. You allege it is very hard u mail Sheuld suffer for his wife’s guilt,
. and be prevented from taking a second companion. I grant, my Harriot, that such an unfortunate husband is worthy of pity, shut I would not have him perjure himsels by a Second marriage, because his real wife injured him. He muss bear this
missortune
 . 197
misfortune wuth resignation, as well as others that are met with in iise; it is not, thank God, a common fititation. You have so lately passed through the marriage ceremony, my dear friend, that you cannot possibly forget the solemn reciprocal vow you both took ac the altar; it expressly says, “till death do you part.” ' The invisible Creator of the world is, we doubt nor, always present, but more particularly in places dedicated to his worship. The priest:, in his awful presence, joins your hands and says, “Those whom God hath joined together, let no min put asunder.”
He afterwards, in the name of the Holy Trinity, pronounces vou man and wile. No clause is inferred in the ceremony that you ever can be disunited daring your lives. It is, therefore, my fixed opinion, that no human law should overthrow the marriage vow taken in the more immediate presence of invisible Omnipotence. Indeed, my dear Harriot, they must give a pretty extensive latitude to their conscience who admit the propriety of a second marriage in such a cafe.
The verse you have fixed on is no point against me, my dear Harriot. The Jews commonly divorced their'wives for the most trivial things; that charm variety
K was
of
was frequently the cause. Our Saviour knew the hardness of their hearts: he came to establish new and purer laws a mong them. By degrees he spread his doctrine, that it might be the more effectually received. In the 19th Chapter of St. Matthew he informs his hearers, that god’s intention was to pair a male and female for life, and asterwards proceeds to the verse you quote. His disciples then argue, that, is the case of a man were So with his wise, it was not good to marry: in answer to which, our Saviour recommends chastity, but alleges, that, as every one cannot persevere in it, marriage Was theresore instituted, to preserve men from sin, (at least it is the sense I receive those words in,) theresore they ought to remain chaste, and not marry, notwithstanding their wives being guilty of a crime which might Separate them from dwelling together. In the most important articles of lise, I think it necessary to Salvation to strictly adhere to Scripture. We should endeavour to Sulsil our duty to God prese rable to that of his creatures. IS from unavoidable uneasiness of mind I should devolve into an ill state of health, which may put a period to my days, I should die satisfied with having done my duty in combating against an action which would
displease
H OMAN LIFE. jgg
displease my Maker — rely on his mercy — and hope for never ending happiness in a ' world free from mutability. 1 mull therefore, my beloved friend, entreat, that, for the future, you will desist; from defending an action I shall ever esteem criminal. I never will marry Lord Villars while Lady Mary exists.
Lord and Lady N -- -- -- -- - were great advocates
for his Lordship, but finding me inflexible have dropped the Subject. Count Sr, Lou has had the rudeness to Write to me here. I am duly attended by; Lord
C -- -- -: he is an amiable young man;
but, oh! how unlike the truly admirable Lord Villars 1 Adieu! my ever dear Harriot : remember me to your Lord, and tell him his regard for his friend make, s him condemn me witsiout reason, or reflecting.
Yours,
A, Melviitt,
S
_ ^
4 .Lord.
io
Lord Villars to Lord Duncan.
____ London.
A ME founded the trumpet of Truth, Charles, when it informed thee of the
proposal Lord A -- -- -- -- - made me. The
leason I mentioned it not in my lafl letter was because I feared you might imagine I recited it for the gratification of my vanity though Heaven knows I am, not much governed by the dictates of that goddess of folly. My gloomy dif pofitiori at present rather relapses me into a contempt of myself by the disappointment of my wishes. The cruel, though lovely Lady Melville j>eifeveres in making me wretched; but the more I reflect on her virtue and goodness - more I adore her : nay, there are moments that 1 acknowledge the justice of her sentiment in refusing me. In short, Duncan, I am more contented with only her esleem and friendship, and enjoying the melancholy idea of being beloved by her, at a distance, than I should be with the possession of the most beautiful w’oman in the cieation. She has beauty to excess, all beholders must acknowledge; but I adore her mind more than her persoii ^that beams celef
tiai
H U M AN LI F E. goi
tial virtue. Oh! Charles, hard, very hard, is my fate, to be approved, yet be thus wretched.
I waited on Lord A — — - by ssiss own appointment, when he took an opportunity to tender me his daughter. My answer was soon given : I informed him of the situation of my heart, which could never be withdrawn from the object which at present possessed it. He entreated me to visit her, at least till she recovered; but, as that would be deceiving her, I begged to be excused. A few days after Ihe was able to sit in her dressing-room; he entreated me to go only as a common acquaintance, to inquire aster her health. ' With much persuasion Lcomplied. Being the victim of what I may term a hopeless • passion my seis, she demanded my pity, v/e were Soon lest alone.
“My friend Flora Archer was overcome by my sather’s entreaties, my Lord, ” Said she,. “to recite to hirn the imaginary cause of my illness, and. because I avowed a particular esteem and friendship for your Lordship, imagined from thence my complaint proceeded; the conse -- quence of which was, my sather’s ten derness for me obscuring my demerits,,, he offered you his daughter; a circumi stance, my Lord', that has much wounded
02 THE MUTABITHTY HP
ed my pride. Lord Duncan was never possessed of my affection— — Lordship, before his arrival, had gained my friendship — But Lord Duncan was a man of merit, and the flight he put on me gave me pain, as it depreciated me in the eyes of the world. Your Lordship was, nay, still js, possessed of my friendship, the consequence of knowing your merit; but, my Lord, ” said she, with a disdainful look, “I would not have you imagine that you have the power of life and death over me because my father and Miss Flora have imbibed a mistaken notion.*’ -- -
“When I behave with insolence, Lady Emma, ” said I interrupting her, “condemn me; — vanity I was never accused of: — your friendship was more than I believed myself possessed of till now, when yourself informs me of it. I imagined your heart Lord duncan’s at the time you disavowed it to me, and most sincerely pitied you; for, alas! I myself know too well the tortures of a hopeless passion. You acknowledge I was once poffdted of your friendship, but your present manner proves it fled; therefore, my Lady, I will no longer weary you v\iih mv prestneev” So faymg, I arose to quit the room.
‘‘ You
 . 203
“You answer me as I deserve, my Lord, ” said she, weeping. — “Alas! I can no longer disguise my Sentiments : illness has rendered me weak both in body and
mind -- -- -- But tell me candidly, my Lord,
Do you hate me I Was Lady Melville out of the question, Should 1 be a disgitst fuk object.? — Alas! I blush at my folly — I retract my words — but I still esteem
you -- -- -- Oh! my Lord, I am an object
truly worthy of your pity — 1 condemn myself for want of modesty, but indeed my situation is truly pitiable. — Cruel Sather! Why did you give your Emma an opportunity of exposing herself” ” she, still weeping.
If I must confess the truth, Charles, it is, that 1 could scarce forbear shedding tears with her. I endeavoured to console her — gratified the vanity she might have, by granting her poffelfed of every amiable quality — (I think, indeed, she has many— — that nothing but a prior engagement could have made me behold her with indifference. She seemed pleased, though not fatissied — thus we parted. I called on her once since, and we treated each other as acknowledged friends. She certainly is an amiable woman, when an Adelaide or Harriot is not in question. But I will bid thee adieu now, Charles,
a s'
3ZL
as in two days I shall see thee at myrt e Hall. My best wishes attend Lady Duncan.
V
Yours,
Villars.
Mademoiselle Barfleur the Marchioness
Melville.
From the Convent of -- -
Madam,
. 0
Stranger addrelfes you, who has osten lamented the impossibility of ever being personally acquainted with a Lady, whose compassionate and truly Christian disposition is evidently displayed by her sorgiveness to her Severest: enemies. — Alas! my Lady, I have a cruel task to perform, for it is of the unfortunate Madame St. Clare I must write. — The prayers of all our Sisterhood are now united to relieve her poor Soul. — Ah! worthy Lady Melville, Spite osthe wrongs file did you, an account of her death htust afford a heart like your pain. — She fell a facrisice to gries. At her Sirst arrival litre we exchanged friendship. — She recited
 . 205
cited to me all her errors, which I believe no woman could more sincerely repent of. -- -- She painted your ladyship’s character
is so very amiable a light, that I was almost angry with her for having been the means of almost all your missor • fortunes, — yet her .repentance and self ondemnation made me renounce the leasl: inclination that way. For Some months She, With exemplary piety, attended to the rules and duties of a monastic lise, but an inward grief preyed upon her Spirits. Alas! all my efforts to eradicate it were in vain. Finding her health declining, two other Ladies and myself, who had a Sincere friendship for her, endeavoured to persuade her, that the gloom of our holy retreat was prejudicial to her health; therefore she had better again enter into the world till it was re eftablished, — we Should then with pleasure receive her again. In return to which she answered, the date of our lives Was sixed by Heaven, consequently change of situation could not prolong it. A brother of one of these young ladies is a most accomplished young nobleman he had Seen Madame' St. Clare Several times with his hfler, — he Sell a captive to her charms, and made his passion known to her. One day reading a letter of his
before
o6 THE MUTABILITYOF
before me, she blushed, and said“ “my dear Barfleur, I muss: be candid with you; — my vanity I find is not extinct. — The attention of this young nobleman is pleasing to me, though I have not the least friendftiip or regard for him; a plain proof I am unfit again to trust: myself in the world— — should perhaps again be overpowered by flattery, and absorbed in vanity; again launch into the Sollies of lise, though I fleered clear of pollution. — Alas! repentance only can obliterate my past crimes. — let me still continue to implore mercy of offended Heaven, Alas! alas !” Said ftie weeping, “my revengesul disposition, and unsortunate attachment to Violetta, was the main cause of the poor marquis’s death; I was. accessary to it. — My peace of mind, never, oh, never can return, Barfleur. I loved him it is true, but not as a lover lament him; was he living, convinced as I am of my guilt, he Should be crazed from my memory with horror. But his untimely Sat, alas! owing entirely to, me, I must ever lament. Cut off, with all his impersections on his head ~stis too much.” Ah! Lady Melville, a heart possessed of the least sensibility, could not avoid being affected with Such
seis accusations. I wept with hen
Much
HUMANLIFE. 207
Much about that period she received a letter from Lady Di Horton, uxizs Florello, her present legal appellation; it runs as follows :
ITO
Madame St. Glare.
%
M.
AY furies seize this fellow, and tear
*• 0 m
him piecemeal, for having thus duped me !Fiorello i mean. Confinement makes me desperate without any hope of redress. I suffer as much torture as the
N.
deceitful priests persuade you souls do in purgatory. But why do I complain to you of misery— — you, who, after all your avowed friendship, stead without endeavouring to relieve me. On you, St. Clare, I relied for aid — my liberty gained, I would have ensnared some fellow to maintain me in luxury. This horrible dungeon, which I scarce breathe in, is enough to drive any creature but myself into despair. Ravens, owls, and all the hideous train of obnoxious creatures, are continually flapping against my windows— — clock, like a dismal passing bell, is near five minutes sounding each stroke; and this wretch, at times, has the consummate assurance to say, this is the life he will continually inflict upon
me.
o8
me, as a facrisice to the manes of his dear Violetta. The fellow is handsome, but if he was to adore me to desperation, I could not endure solitude with him, or any one man, above a month. Sometimes he has moments of fondness, then I endeavour to allure him, but he Is never off his guard at those periods. Confusion seize him! He says he loves me too west to trust me in the world; besides, he is determined I Shall not dishonour him, which certainly would be the cafe, were I at liberty; that he always approved the caution of Spaniards in regard to their wives — Ladies of the hon tonne should certainly then be very strictly guarded. A vagrant! how shall I execute revenge on him? — Clandon never writes to me, never endeavours to see me; but it’s the way of the world in general, and she
is a vain proud fool -- -- but for you, Sr.
Clare, -- -- you!! I really regarded,
to serve me so intolerably, is abominable. Pusillanimous creature! because fate struck off thy lover, must thou in the bloom of youth and beauty bid adieu to gallantry, and, instead of receiving adoration, pay it at the Shrine of a mortal woman like thyself. It absolutely, St. Clare, is very laughable, even in idea, to behold thee, with bent knees,
adoring
 . 209
adoring the old bones of what is nominated some faint, though perhaps they belonged originally to some heinous sinner. Positively I always imagined you had more sense than to be guilty of idolatry, and adore old wood, stones, bones, and Nicholas himself knows what;
a mere political bubble, child -- -- -- -- -- for
Shame! -- -- -- return to your senses, quit
the old Abbess and her whining children of folly — — — rescue me from torture, St. Clare, and let us return to mirth and pleasure. But if you are absolutely determined to facrisice yourself to the memory of Melville, may you be as miserable as you deserve to be in the Sisterhood of idiots! in which case, that you write not to me is the earnest desire of your once affecti onate friend,
Diana ■ ■ -- -- -- -- ■
I will not add this vagrant’s name. Oh! for revenge! revenge! Mere chance produced this opportuiuity of writing.
. *
•t
J
See here, Barfleur, Said the unhappy St. Clare with a Sigh, presenting me the
Sore
«

>
V
foregoing letter, what reason I have to bliish at my choice of friends and former connexions. I will oblige Lady Di by my silence. My present ideas would didfate advice to her in my answer, which she would, enraged, destroy before half read. Alas! I fear it will require greater affliction, than she has yet experienced, to wean her from the pleasures of this life. This dear Lady then closed her speech with encomiums on your ladyship’s different conduct; and, as usual, burst into a floed of tears. She frequently m.enti oned to me her promise of writing to your Ladyship, hut added, she vas willing her year of probation should first pafs, that, by taking the holy veil, she might have the pleasure of assuring you her repentance was sincere and lasting, which she knew would be acceptable news to so real a phil.. as your Ladyship. Alas! Madam, her health at lasc declined very fast, and she was for sometime confined to her chamber, where she devoted her time to prayer and meditation. A few days before she expired, she attempted to write to you, but extreme weakness overpowered, and compelled her to lay aside her pen. “It is now too late for me to attempt Writing to Lady Melville, my dear
Barfleur, ” said she with a sigh;; “lamp
of
HUMANLIFE. 211
of life but just glimmers — must rely on your friendship, and entreat, that, after ray death, you will acquaint her of the manner of it, with a candid account of my behaviour since my arrival here, — tell her, that with my last expiring sigh, I wish her many long and happy years, and after death never ending felicity. — Enclose her Lady Diss letter, it will inform her of that infamous woman’s present sentiments and situation, though alas! it will give her pain. This, my dear Barfleur, is my lasl request: I doubt not your performing it; — repentance I hope has obliterated my guilt. — I feel a calm tranquillity steal over my mind, and sheet death with pleasure.” Alas! Madam, I saw this dear friend, for whom I had a sincere affection, breathe her last. She pressed my hand, and seemed to expire without pain. May every one who has been guilty of erroneous actions, as sincerely repent as this dear Lady, whose memory I shall ever regard. Her last request I most religiously observe; if I have been prolix in my account, pardon it, Madam, it was my desire of fulfilling the wishes of the dead, and making her memory claim your pity. She has bestowed a small donation on this Convent, and disposed of the remainder of her fortune among Monsieur St. clare’s relations.
I
12 THE MUT ABILITY OF
I hope this account will arrive unmolested to your ladyship’s hands. Aline, acknowledging the recipt of it, would as ford linspeakable Satisfaction to
Madam,
Your Sincere Friend, tho’ unknown,
And obessient Servant,
C Barfleur.
J
. I ■
The Marchioness of Melville to Lady
Duncan.
V
Laurel Grove.
THE
two letters I inclose, my dear
Harriot, are not calculated to raise my de
• - \ ^
pressed Spirits. The unsortunate Madame St. Clare is at rest — peace to her ashes! I guess mademoiselle Barfleur must be an amiable woman, from her pious and friend ly attention to the penitent victim. I have acquiesced with her requesl of writing, to affirm her Savour came sase to to hand. Having wrote So lately, my dear friend, I have nothing to communicate. Remember me to your Lord, and tell his too a greeabie friend I am well. Adieu.
Tours, ca.
Metville.
Marchioness
y'
 . 21?
Marchioness of Melville to Mrs.
Cordon.
Laurel grove,
alas! my dear friend, it is with an
affliction that baffles all description I sit down to write. Philosophy, religion, or reason, can never master our grief when real misfortunes attack us. — It is for Lord Villars that my heart Suffers this inexpressible anguish. Alas! while I am writing, he may perhaps be numbered with the millions of those who are no more. — My Sighs are wafted — my tears are shed in vain.
I was Sitting reading to Lady N -- -- in
her chamber, when her woman Smiling informed me, that a very handsome young gentleman inquired for me, and desired to be admitted without delayfto my presence. It excited my curiosity: : immediately repaired to the drawing-room, where I found in the Stranger Lord Duncan. — He looked pale as death, and exhausted with Satigue. How is Harriot? demanded I in haste— — she is Well, returned he — but my friend — Oh! Lady Melville, poor Villars will Soon Sail the victim of your barbarity. With tears he then informed me, that the
amiable
1
14.
amiable Lord Villars, some few days since, was seized with a violent fever at their house— — increased, and the Doctors pronounced it was impossible he should live. — It was but at periods he retained his senses, in one of which he gained the truth of his situation, and lamented much that he could not See me besore he expired. Lord Duncan therefore having an unexampled friendship for him, immediately Set out for Laurel Grove, to entreat in the name of them all I would attend him thither, to receive the unsortunate Lord Villars’ last sigh. How can I Suftain Such a trial, my dear Mrs. Gordon? My heart is ready to leave my bosom. — I cannot alas! even in idea, undergo it and retain my
senses.' -- Hers the only man I ever loved.
— I rejected him from the most delicate of objections — stay still must do the Same, was I Sure to gain his precious lise by a contrary conduct. It is better to die innocent than live guilty, though only in one’s own idea. — His virtues will procure him happiness in a better state, and perhaps merciful Heaven will compassionately shorten my date, — we shall be united in a happier region. But a thousand things now claim my attention — In a Sew hours we Set off for Myrtle Hall, and while we fly two hundred miles what a dreadful catastrophe
 . 215
tastrophe may happen. An! my dear ray amiable friend, pray for a speedy turn and pity your truly diftrelted
A. Melville.
'Lady Duncan to Mrs. Gordon.
>•
myrtle hau.
Go OD God 1 my dear Gordon, what
will become of Adelaide and poor Charles when they come hither, and find the amiable Lord Villars expired before their arrival! I am absolutely flupesied with grief myself, and, to mend the matter, poor Ai'cher has undergone fugcessive fain'tings, which she is but just recovered from. Dr.
C -- -- has given her a composing mikture,
which I hope she will receive benefit from. The poor girl, it seemed, loved him to distraction, though she concealed it with such care, and Strove to promote his happiness with Adelaide: but she is blelfed vwith an amiable disposition; no wonder therefore she admired a man so formed every way so formed to please— — — You know his merit, foi need nor dwell on it.
I had informed his Lordship of charles’s departure and hopes of Lady melville’s return with him. He attended to what I said with pleasure; “Ah! Lady Duncan, ”
said
i6
said he, “such an idea recast me almost: to life — but, alas! perhaps She will arrive too late to receive my last sigh.”
Three hours aster, .nurse came and informed me he had expired without her knowledge— — she had been absent from _ the bed half an hour, and yet he felt cold. Soon after an express came that Charles and my Adelaide would be here in a few hours. 1 am absolutely at a loss how to prepare them for the shocking news — I wish you was here, Gordon to advise me. Poor unfortunate Villars! — What shall I do I — I hear the carriage coming — The palpitation I am In so great, that even my teeth chatter. — Heavens! what a seen I must pafs through !Alas! poor Adelaide, what must thou suffer I
I am retrieved from my agitated state a little by my mistake, dear Gordon. It was liot those I expected, but our friend Mr. -- -- -, the surgeon. He was much affected at the melancholy event, as he had not heard of Lord Villars’ illness. I recited the particulars of his disorder, as he seemed desirous to be informed of it, and how long it was since he expired. He often wished he had arrived sooner, and eagerly
^ asked
 . 217
asked if Dr. C — — was with him at the time he died. He was not, 1 returned, but inspected him after nurfe’s alarm, and declared him irretrievably gone; but that I. had not had the body moved, as I expected Charles every moment, who would rather give necessary orders himself concerning his friend I imagined. With my leave he said, he would take the lasl view pf so valuable a nobleman. He is gone for that purpose my dear Gordon. Poor Archer is still afteep. Oh! fie, these melancholy scenes are enough to affect one’s spirits for a twelvemonth— — must lay aside my pen.
4
Unspeakable joy intoxicates my senses, Gordon. The darling of the fair, the charming \ illars, still lives. With this item you are undoubtedly on the rack to know particulars, and heartily rejoiced to find we did not bury the poor man alive. — * Patience, Gordon, and I will gratify thee, ill capaciated as I am for relating events with propriety. To begin, then : — You miaft know, when Mr. ■ — -■■■ was ascending the stairs, in Slow paces, to the supposed chamber of death’s" victim, he met Nurse withstftonifhment visible on hcran
L tique

tique features: “Lord! Sir, ” said she, “come along — you are arrived in a pure moment, for as sure as day his Lordship is not dead — Come along! — I wasjusl going to tell my Lady that I am sure a Doctor could bring him to life.”,
While she was delivering her tale, Mr.
-- -- hurried to his Lordshipst room, and
found that there certainly was life in him. ' i he whole house was presently alarmed; all possible. assislance was afforded him; and, to shorten my wondrous Ilory, in an houi’s time, he returned to his fenfe«.again. Mr. — — has'prefcrrbed medicines forhim^ .and gives us hopes that he will soon recover, as it was a sudden turn of his fever, which was for his benefit. Mr. -- -- -- --
says any of the Faculty might have known that he had life in him: besides, his jaw never fell. .Had, tke simpleton of a nurse imenticned that circumstance, it would have struck me : hut you know I am not Sond of admiring dead people, therefore I never w’ent into his chamber after I was told he was dead. If my dear Charles had been here, he would have been wiser, and ‘poornillars had assistance sooner. I have ■had the happy miracle revealed by degrees to Archer, who is greatly elevated at the mews, and sits by me at this present wri itirg. Alas! poor girl! she is in a pitiable
tuatioa
HUMANLIFE. 210
situation, but I hope She will have the resolution to overcome her present sensation for the sick man, and we shall! all be happy. But that dear creature Adelaide will not compleacostr felicity — She is absolutely very obstinate— — signifies her showing herself to Villars, if She will not marry him? If Lady Mary would but make her exit at this critical juncture, how delightful would it be, Gordon! but dorist you imagine, from the hint I have given, that I wish for such an event. No, no. Heaven forbid, giddy as I am, that I should wish for any perfon’s death; that is a crime of too black a die, Gordon,
r
George is arrived, and informs me his mailer and Lady Melville will be here in half an hour; therefore adieu, Gordon. You shall soon again tear from eisher Adelaide or your present cocrefpondent.
’ Harriot Duncan.
L z Marchioness
\

Marchioness of M e L V i L L e to Mrs,
G OR D O N,
Myrtle hau.
HE severe feelings I underwent in my
journey hither, my fatigue, ray terror, and my apprehension of the worsl affliction that
could befall me, are more than I can de
\ *'
; but the first; view of our dear Harriot gave me hopes my, fears were vain,; and the amiable Lord Villars was out of danger. She informed tne of every circumstance, and how .keenly touched she was at our mutual friend’s supposed dissolution. The recital affected me to the 'Very heart. Want of attention might have Been the means of our eternal loss. How fortunate it was Mr. — ^ — arrived to Save a life So valuable! He now is able to sit in .company as usual. What pleasure does it afford me to view his returning health! It was not till three days after my arrival here! was admitted to his chamber — then it had very near overpowered his weak frame. “Is it possible Lady Melville can have the goodness to travel So many miles to endeavour to Save the life of a man whose hand she refuses Said he.
Ah] Madan, pardon me.; you are all
virtue
 : 22i
virtue, and all benevolence; you are the deareil friend I have on earth ^i must love, I must esteem you, while I exist. If there are in reality guardian spirits, as some have thought, my soul should still hover around you, and protect: you from all misk fortunes, till the hour of your dissolution,,, when I had liberty to conduct you to that biifsful region your virtues so justly deserve to enjoy.” — But the speeches of lovers, my dear Gordon are too surfeiting— — adulatory to be repeated~yet we consider not how much our little merit is heightened when we listen to the man we love, because we are pleased at every wordi he utters, and do not give ourselves time to reflect it is flattery; nay, if we did, even flattery from him is pleasing. We would have him overrate our merit, and be blind ' to our defects, by way of insuring his constancy. Yet to what purpose is all this, since I cannot complete his happiness," and marry him Lord Duncan, too, will not permit my departure for sometime, lest his friend should relapse; but I hope poor Lord Villars will be quite reinstated in a fortnight, and I in my liberty. Miss Archer is. very much affected at having been thrown off her guard, and discovering her affection for the too agreeable Lord ‘ Villars. She promises to attend me to
L 3 Melvili©'
22
Melville park. Indeed, She is a very a miable girl, has refined sentiments, and a mild disposition. I donst know any one so suitable as Mr. Clairville to her disposition. I hope she w‘ll soon be happier. -- -- Were both their hearts at liberty,
I think they wotild be mutually pleased, and make a very happy couple. This may not be impracticable. He has begged for permission to visit me. I shall be at London before I go to Melville park. She will be with me. 1 sincerely wish they may be siruck with each other. But these sort of sensations will not be forced, I find, alas! by experience — it makes me pity
her the more. Harriot is desirous to add
_ 0 _
her kindest wishes, before I conclude myself your ever affectionate
I
A. Melville.
I
Lady
♦
I
H IT M A N L I F E. 22:
Lady Melville to Mrs. Gordon.
Myrtle hall.
T '
JL/ORD Villars not being even yet per -- fectly recovered, my dear friends here insist: upon my lengthening my visit. Do I act right by complying with this request? — Perhaps it may delay his final recovery. they say, the reverse: : which presumption I submit. When the tirrie of our separation arrives, how shall we both suffer There is no remedy — We cannot, we must not, be united — But I trouble you too much, my dear Mrs. Gordon,, with these melancholy effusions of a dif -- appointed heart, therefore will endeavour to relieve you.
We spend our time with tolerable cheerfulness at present, and have often the company of Sir Harry Fenlow and his lady, a very polite couple. Sir Harry does us the honour to admire us all in turn, and Lady Fenlow ogles with our gentlemen; but as, uniuckily for her, they had not any inclination to intrigue wuth her lively Ladyship, she began to be out of humour with them for their stupidity. Fortunately Lord Hazard arrived in good time to recruit her spirits; nay,
L 4 makes
ia THK MTTTABTT.TTYOR
makes love to her before Sir harry’s face; to which he is politely deaf. In turn Sir Harry makes particular compliments ro poor Miss Archer, who is out of 8^ patience at his insolence; but Harriot is properer to write on Such Subjects than me; besides, I still have a very great depression of Spirits. St. Lou persecutes me with ietters ^i wish he would return to his native country~how could Lady v/alters give him encouragement to torment me So! Let me hear from you Soon, my dear friend,
Yours sincerely,
A. Melville,
/
\
Lady
 . 525
Lady Duncan to Mrs. Gordon.
Myrtle hall.
S, R Harry and Lady fenlow’s adherence to bon-ton wounds the mind of my dear Adelaide, while I laugh heartily at their folly. I think it’s absurd to do otherwise, as they choose to make themselves ridiculous. In the country one musl visit people one despises, or live alone. You must know, about two years ago this polite couple married for what they call love, Gordon, and retired to the country for three months, by which time they were heartily weary of each other. Their next determination was to take a tour through France and Italy, which cornpleated their imaginary politeffe.~ they returned the silly creatures we now find them. — Charming benefit and improvement they gained, really. Sir Harry' and Lord Hazard are profested friends, and gamblers; the former has lost; feve -- ral thousand pounds lately; The indulgence of this said passion for gaming is a ■ dreadful practice — Ina few moments what numbers are rendered beggars by it ?• — Noble families ruined 1 — It makes them guilty of the meanest actions, and
L 5: too
z6
too frequently ends in fuic; de.~heavens! Gordon, if I am not moralising; I believe I musl inlist under Lady fenlow’s banner, or I shall dwindle into a Stupid humdrum matron indeed — But we are going to dinner there, so adieu!
V
Sad doings, Gordon! — What misfortunes arise from people’s folly! — I was rather premature in my reflections — But for the event:
Lady Fenlow was alone in the drawing-room when we arrived: “These men, ” said Ihe, “are continually at dice — they have been at it in hazard’s dref fing room all the morning — Surely, ladies, your company will allure them from it.” She then ordered a servant to inform them we were come.
In about half an hourst time Sir Harry rushed into the room, pale as ashes, with his hair loose, and in the greatest agitation imaginable. He looked at us with a wildness that surpassed al! description. Lord Hazard soon followed him, dressed.
Dear Fenlow, ” said the latter, “don’t be so abominably rude to the company because you have lost a few co
rainders
HITMAN I. I F R.
rianders — These fair ladies claim your attention.”
“Perdition to my cursed fortune — you and the whole world !” said he — “Is
this a time to talk of gallantry Lady
Fenlo, i’m undone — Lord Hazard has won my whole fortune.”
“Lord! Sir Harry, ” said She, cooly,
What is to become of me.? — ^ — My Lord you will take me in the bargain
A rapturous speech was then uttered by his Lordship, and an agreement to her request:.
“Well, then, positively you shall have me, ” said she. — Sir Harry, my Lord will get you a commission. i’m sure, by my desire, and you may retrieve your fortune in America.”
We ail imagined she was not bent on so infamous a conduct, but it proved too true; she certainly had intended to ■ go off with him before this event happened.
Sir Harry was almost distracted at his own folly, but under no concern for Lady * fenlow’s deserting him.
Things being in such confusion, we were obliged to return home to dinner;. but before we came away. Lord Villars and Duncan ft rove to make Sir Harry more composed, but that was impossible.
He
: 8
He has only two hundred a year left to subsist; on, which I almosl think is more than he deserves. I will not begin moralising again, though there is Sufficient room for it here. Poor Adelaide and Archer sit sighing for Sir Harry, though. they acknowledge by his adventuring he deserved such a inisfortune. As to her. She is one of the mod; infamous of w'c men.
I am highly delighted, my dear Gordon, with part of a French author’s yorks I have just been reading~fie gives an account of the English, and paints the disposition of our men I think very propeily (laying aside a few individuals we know). Then he compliments our sex so, that he deserves to have a monument raised to his memory. I think it runs thus in English :
-- -- - “Happy as the French esleem
themselves in the company of women, as much the English dread it : at least, if they are amorous, they only find in the fair what gratifies their passion, seldom what engages their mind. They prefer the pleasure of drinking the healths of beauties in a tavern to that of entertaining them in a circle — treat them as a
0
4
* Letters d'un Franco!?.
different
TI TT M A M T. T F R >oa
different sort of being as well as sex and, in general, think them only fit to dissipate their chagrin, and sweeten the fatigue of business. Those met with at Paris endeavour to justify their countrymen by saying women, in England are not so entertainig as in France; but, fuppofrng that to be the cafe, is it not the fault of the men? If wc find more pleasure in the conversation of French wmmen, it is not because they have in reality more wit, but they display it more.
“The presence of a man in England creates taciturnity in a whole circle of Semaies.
“At Paris, a petit maitre Scarce arrived to manhood, isiiffices a dozen of our belles at a time to move that agreeable infliru ment cf speech we call tongue. But we must; neither commend or blame the English ladies for their taciturnity, as their silence is occasioned by the embarrassiment they find in company. This embarrasl ment proceeds only from their being unaccustomed to it. It is less their fault than our fex’s, who neglect them, and who, by the dangerous habit of drinking, destroy all refined Sentiments, with
r“ “
the desire of pleasing. These who give themselves up so much to the fatal custom of drinking are not made for
the
30
the conversation of women — Seldom are they amorous — they are only libertines.
“The English men lose much pleasure by living so little with a sex who have there share of graces from Nature, whose Society has always charms, and a peculiar sweetness in their coriversation which wc find not in our own Sex.
“Conversing with women Softens and polishes the manners; by the habit of endeavouring to please we contract a tone equally agreeable to both sexes. Men with each other are too supine; their conversation languishes, or turns to a warm dispute; for to gain applause, they Strive for a Superiority, and are mutually offended; neither will acknowledge being in the wrong;; it finishes by hating him they could not vanquish.
“With women we take a Surer method of gaining esteem— — Study to please them, and we Succeed. It is the iensation one Sex naturally has ibr the other which inspires the insinuating tone and affecting manner that consecrate true politeness; which habit we cannot contract but by the company of women. The custom of the Sexes living in this manner is truly eftirriable, and constitutes the de' '
and happiness our lives.
You
H TT M A M 't. T P F
“You may easily perceive, by the air as well as manner of dress, these people are removed from the conversation of the fair sex. It is from this great negligence that the English have a je nepai qwi of iier cen efs which Strikes us So,
“those who go to Paris with the advantage of Speaking our language with ease astonifh us always with their embar ralsed air, which they Seldom quit. The cause is evident. They no Sooner quit the university. than their first: years arc passed at London in frequenting coffeehouses and taverns, those places so pernicious to youth, which they cannot frequent without hurting their sentiments.
“We perceive others Studying the manners of strange countries before they are acquainted with their own. This is another inconvenience. We should not travel but in search of knowledge. Those who have no idea of it are not calculated to find it. Most of the tutors these young men are consigned to are not themselves sit for travelling. They bring with them from college that pernicious custom and vice of smoking and drinking. How can the instruct their pupils in, a politeness they are unacquainted
with — —
I am
z32 THE MUT ABILITY OF
1 am hastily called from abusing my
own dear countrymen, and, as the post
will Soon be going off, my dear Gordon, must bid you adieu I
Yours sincerely,
H. Duncan.

 . 2?,
9
The Marchioness 0/ Melville to Mrs.
(^RDON.
$
yiyrtle hau.
My dear Harriot has, I find, informed you of Sir Harry fenlow’s folly, and his lady’s moss: unparalleled assurance — Infamous woman! to desert her husband at Such a period, even though he brought his misfortune on himself by his own indiscretion. If he had possessed the least regard for her, what additional affliction muss it have caused him? — ‘but undoubt
f
edly She was become an object of disgust The name of wise to So fine a gentleman was enough to cause hatred — His pursuit was variety in his pleasures; the common vice of the times.
Lord Villars and Lord Duncan Sent the next day to inquire after his health. The Servant informed us Lady Fenlow went off with Lord Hazard after dinner. The latter told Sir Harry he was welcome to remain there four or five months if he chose it, till he could Settle himself. What a cruel mortification, my dear friend, to be told So! — A house which in the morning was his own 1 The Servant Said Sir
Harry
234 THS MUTABILITY OF
Harry was like a distracted man, and continued so.
Lord Villars was shocked at his misfortune, and went to condole with him; and offer his service or interest; but he would not listen to his Lordship, and in treated to be left alone.
Yesterday, however, he packed up his clothes, and took his last leave of a place that might still have been his own but for his unconquerable passion for gaming. What distracting sensations must he carry wuth him I — doubly mortifying to a man sh absorbed in the pursuit of pleasure. Lady Fenlow witl, likewise, in turn, become a prey to despair— — hazard’s licentious passion will soon expire — She will, perhaps, be diftressied, even for fub siftence. -- Such is the misery entailed
on vice commonly in this world! — An indulgence of irregular passions reduces us ta misery, poverty, and indigence.
Next week, my dear Mrs. Gordon, I Set out for Melville park, and hope that you will Soon be able to join me, for I shall land much in need of your company. Adieu! adieu I
A. Melville.
The
 . 25c
1
The Marchioness of Melville to Mrs.
Gordon.
9
myrtle hall
I HAVE fiirprifing new's for my ami
abe friend — news that will give your affectionate heart more pleasure than it has received a long time, as your amiable disposition makes you trembling alive all o’er** to the misfortunes and happiness of your friends. Harriot would have me keep you in fufpenee, to fet your curiosity still more afloat, and not inform yon what it is in this letter; but I cannot agree to such an unfeeling practice.
Lady Mary -- -- -- has been long numbered
with the dead. I do not exult over her ashes — May they rest in peace I — But it would be affectation to lament her, tho’ it would be barbarous to triumph. — Such a conduct would seem chargeable with the guilt of dissimulation. No, my dear friend, I will candidly confess the thoughts of being united to Lord Villars gives me great pleasure— — is a man of such uncommon merit — so unlike the vulgar rake — I must be happy with him. It is to Mr. Clairville I am indebted for the
above
f
56
above information. He is acquainted with
Capt. F -- --, who sometime since arrived
in England, and has paid his addresses to Lady Emma. Her Ladyship was too much engaged to attend him. This touched him I'enfibly. The news of Lord Vii, lars dangerous illness made her still more reserved to the Captain, being in the greatest anxiety concerning, his life. Gapt.
; F'".. observed it, and complained to
Mr. Clairville, who recited the common report which prevailed that Lord Villars' disorder proceeded from his esteem for me who had refused him on account of Lady mary’s being alive, c. so that he need not be under any apprehension that Lord Villars would ever trar>sfer his affection to Tady Emma, or, any other woman. Clairville fur tlier Said, he sincerely wished to see me united to his lordsliip, (since I had refused him,) as he hoped it would fix my happiness, which would give him inexpret fible pleasure ^that he really was sorry, extremely sorry, I had taken so uncommon a resolution to disappoint his friend’s Southeast jicity,
Captain F > — to him with the greatest surprise“ “it possible ?” he cried — “Does Lady Melville actually reject Lord Villars for the cause you mention
 .
tion ?” Mr. Clairville assured him it was So.
He paused— — tasking Mr. clairville’s hand with a changed countenance, — — “Clairville, Said he, I injured Lord Villars; but I was likewise the means of releasing him from an infamous woman. Our acquaintance was of a very short date before his Lordship procured a divorce. Novelty was the charm. She proposed going to France after she was at liberty, but altered her mind and determined to go incog, under a feigned name to
....... shire;; she might after a few
weeks go from thence to Calais, and, unknown, quit England, not chufmg her
friends should have any knowledge whither she was gone. Part of her plan was executed.' — We went to -- -- ~ shire, and both took her maiden appellation, passing for man and wife. A Sortnight after our being here she fell ill— — worse, and I called in proper aid; but she soon was past all human assistance. She was not in the least affected with the near prospect of her dissolution;; 1 believe, did she in reality perceive her danger, for she Seemed inclined to intrigue with the Doctor who attended her.. About three hours however, before she expired, she said she felt herself much worse, and insisted upon
immediately
38
immediately making her will. — A lawyer came. She bequeathed me her whole fortune, which was four thousand pounds: — she had it with her in notes and money, which she intended to six in the funds abroad. This will being cornpleated, and every one withdrawn, she requested as a favour in return for her love, that, if she expired, I would conceal her death from Lord Villars, and the world in general, that they might not triumph over her me rhory, and exulting say. Vengeance had overtaken her; — further, that 1 would take a tour somewhere out of England, and when I returned back, say I had lest her abroad. “This, my dear F -- -- -- -- concluded
she, it is all I desire of you; a small request, and one with which I hope
you will comply. — Adieu, F' -- -- -- -- said
she, “I find myself fteepy, send Nurse hither.'” I retired. Nurse came an hour after and informed me, her mrftrefs’s sleepiness was succeeded by great agonies; that she seemed to have a great horror upon her, and could not speak ■ Disagreeable as such a seen was, I determined to attend her, as perhaps she might revoke her last request, and wish to have her will cancelled. I held the will in my hand, and asked her if I should destroy it? ‘she shook her head, and J could just
distinguish
 . g
distinguish she said“ “; ” but her Seeming agonies were past description. I then Sent the nurse out, and asked her if she’ still desired I would conceal her death? She answered very plain, “Yes, yes, ” and nodded her head. Soon after she fell into strong convulsions, and as I was quitting the room, expired.
“Gay as I then was, ’* said he to Mr. Clairville, ** the manner of her death shocked me. I soon after had her private ‘
ly interred at ..... church, left the
place, and pursued my former pleasures. Every one imagined we quitted England together, and I did not contradict the report in my answers to my friends letters, strictly adhering to Lady mary’s last request : but the present occasion, I think, justifies .me.; by concealing it I should render too amiable people wretched. Lord 'villar^’s character claims the greatest respect, CL air vile. I should be proud to acquaint him every obstacle to his union with Lady Melville was removed; but af •ter what has pasted I have not the assurance to appear before him. — Do you therefore inform him of the happy news, and if Lady Melville requires a more satisfactory account of Lady Mary's death, it is only
writing to Mr. W -- -- -- -- -- -, the attorney, at
• -- -- -, who will assure her of his attending
us
lo
us at the time of her fall illness;; indeed, the will which I now have in my possession is fussicient proof; I should imagine that will afford her Ladyship fussicient fatissactiion.”
These, my dear Mrs. Gordon, are the particulars of Mr. clairville’s account in k letter to Lord Duncan.
Harriot, overpowered with joy, after having read the letter, ran into the room
and saluted us all round. Lord Villars in
/
raillery returned her thanks for the honour she had done him, when she cried, “Sit down, good folks, and let me read the hap oy recital; be sure, though, you don’t ose jour senses with joy, Villars.” She then with an audible voice read the letter, which you may be certain affected me not a little in Several respects. Poor Lady mary’s inconsiderate end made a Small impression on his Lordship, - — he Sighed at her Srailty, but rising joy Soon Succeeded it. He demanded if I would still persist in re susing him, as he was now, according to my own way of thinking, at liberty. In return to which I answered. Seeing the will would convince me. I therefore wrote a line to Mr. Clairville, making an apology for my want of faith, and desiring my compliments to Captain F -- -- -- -- -- -- -, informing
him, if it was not inconvenient
and
 . 241
and improper, I should be glad he would permit my friend, Mr. Probus, to inspect into it. My request was granted, and I was convinced. Still farther to Satisfy me, Lord Villars wrote to the person who made the will, likewise to the Doctor who at tended her, c. The answers were all
.Satisfactory according to Captain -- ’s
account.~tliey called her Mrs..
No impediment therefore remaining, my dear Gordon, I have no plea to postpone our marriage. Lady Mary has been dead two years; no mourning is necessary for her in such a cafe. Lord villars’s Spirits are beyond what I ever Saw them. No woman can have a prospect of greater earthly happiness than I have, my amiable friend. Bountiful Heaven amply rewards all my past Sufferings. — Tomorrow miss Archer Sets off for London, with Lord Villars and myself. Harrioi aud Lord Duncan are soon to follow, while we prepare for our sacred engagement. miss Archer Seems with great pleasuresto anticipate our happiness;; is delighted with the character of Clairville : we all flatter ourselves they will be charmed with each other. I am Sure they would not be unhappy in marriage, if they would venture, there dispositions are So perfectly amiable.
vol. II M ' Wc
43
W
We have just received a melancholy ac xoiint of the infamous Nugent. — Pursuing hisjgallantry in Ireland, he insulted a married Lady of family — her brother demanded satisfaction; they met; Nugent was mortally wounded, and survived but a few hours. The gentleman was obliged to abfeond, and the poor Lady is very unhappy on account of her brother. What evils continually spring from a spirit of imlicen fed gallantry, and what they term fashionable intrigue. Void of any sense of religion, they deliver themselves up to the embraces of Vice. Harriot drags me from you, my amiable friend, and tells me Lord 'Villars is impatient at my long absence— — I shall not scribble any more — she will be obeyed, therefore, my dear friend, I musl bid you adieu. Happiness .attend you is the sincere wish of,
■your affectionate
A. Melville.
 . 24=
From the Same to the Same.
, Grosvenor Square.
I HAVE had the honour of a most extraordinary visit from a person I little expected. You will be surprised when I inform you it was Lady Clandon. I happened to be alone when she came.
She entered with her usual gay air “Ah! my dear Lady Melville, I am charmed to see you, after such an age of absence — “I came, out of pure friendship, to dissuade you from marrying Villars for heaven’s sake don’t think of it miss tress of yourself, and so fine a fortune, don’t be so mad as to barter them for a despotic sullen tyrant — Hers so saturnine a creature — Oh! horrible to think on!
Now, if you really are determined
to become a Slave, why there is Lord
]ya sprightly fellow, who will not
interfere in your conduct — I came purely out of friendship, to advise you~he certainly is the most worthy object.”
“I must beg. Lady Clandon, you will be filent on a subject that does not concern you, ” returned I.
“It certainly does not, Melville, ” answered ftie: “but then friendship urges:
M 2, beside
AA THE MUTABH ftt OF
besides, I really fear Lord M -- will go
distracted if you marry Villars. What signifies a handsome phiz? — Pho! — that you will Soon be weary of. I remember reading a story very apropos in some old
French book, but what book I cannot burr
^ %
my memory with — I swear it’s not my own invention — I thought it clever — I will tell it you — ’tis apropos
‘ A young gentleman bespoke of a certain painter a picture of Hymen — I will have it attended by the Graces, said this passionate lover — Remember that Hymen must: be represented more beautiful than Adonis — You muss: put it in his hand a torch brighter than cupid’s — In sine, make a trial of your skill, and I will pay you for it according to its goodness. The painter, knowing his liberality, endeavoured to please him, and brought home the picture' the night before the gentleman’s marriage. The young lover was not fatissied — There wants in this figure, said he, a certain gay air — some agremens — certain charms — In short, it answers not the idea I have conceived of Hymen — You have made him but moderately beautiful — you shall be but moderately paid.
‘ The painter had a great deal of ready V it, as well as genius for painting; he therefore immediately coincided with the
ger .leman’s
 . 245
gentleman’s opinion. You have reason not to be contented with my picture, said he; the face is hot yet dry — To speak freely, I lay my colours on in such a manner, that my pictures appear but indifferent when first finished. I will bring" this picture again in a few months, and you shall pay me for it according to its beauty.
I am sure it will appear quite another thing. Adieu! Sir; I am not diftrested for money.
‘ The painter took back his work. Our young lover was married next morning. Several months elapsed without the painter’s appearing. At last he brought the picture. The bridegroom was surprised to see it. You have promised well, said he How time has improved your picture What a difference — I scarce know it! —
I admire what effect time has upon these colours! — I admire still more your ingenuity .'- — Nevertheless, it cannot prevent my telling you the countenance is too gay — the eyes a little too sprightly— — Snould not be so bright as those cf the God of Love — Hymen Should appear graver — Besides the attitude of your figure is too airy — a little too free — and you have given it an air of wantonness, which the character should not have— — is not the Hymen I want after all. *,
m3 Very,
i6
‘ Very well, Sir, said the painter; what I foresaw is come to pass” Hymen is now less beautiful in your idea than in my picture. It was choir the contrary three months ago. It is not my picture, but your idea is changed. You was a lover before -- now you are a husband.
‘ I understand yon, said the gentleman Lay it down — From what you say I find the picture is according to my own fancy. — It is just you should be paid according to your skill — There is a purse which contains double what you could hope for Take it, Sir, and leave me the picture.
‘ No, Sir, replied the painter — No, I will not leave it — I will give you another, which shall please both lovers and married men — it shall open the eyes of all painters. Accordingly, he painted another, which he finished with a great deal of art. Hymen, viewed at a distance, seemed quite charming; but near, quite otherwise. This picture was placed in a superb gallery in a sort of alcove : to approach this alcove a splendid glittering place charmed the beholder’s eyes; but when he arrived there — adieu all charms.’
“Thus ends my story, dear Melville It is really true enough — Marry for love, and you’u surely be miferabie~jea
lolls
 . 247
Ions of each other — and, oh! what horrible gloomy tete d tetes will ensue 1”
“My resolution is fixed, Lady Clan -- don, ” returned I; “I desire no other happiness than the indulgence of my huf band’s company. domeslic happiness is the ambition of Lord Villars and myself, and I doubt not experiencing it. I am sorry to affront any person who has once treated me with civility — bnt, as our dispositions are so disferent and your Ladyship continues so gay, I must inform you, Madam, that my doors will not be open to you again, ” Said I, rising.
“Surely, Melville, ” returned she, “you are not in earnest — you cannot have the effrontery to turn me out of your house. What, I Suppose you have heard of my innocent flirtation with Lord M -- -- -- are
jealous— — in a sit of despair will marry
Villars -- Aye, certainly the case -- — —
you’ll repent it, — Depend on what I say — Mere friendship brought me, and! have been abused for it “Mighty civil, indeed, my Lady Marchioness !• — should have learned you politeness and decorum before he gave you a title — Poor ignorant creature!” said she, rising, and v/alkingup and down the room in a violent rage,
I was almost afraid of her, and rung the bell while she was speaking, when
my
(
l8
my servant came; “Call up Lady Clan. don’s carriage,"’ said I, looking at her with haiightinefs.
“Revenge shall ensue— — ill-bred creature said she. “I \vill not gc> — No — I will Slay to torment thee.” Luckily Lord Duncan entered. He saw me pale, and hef in a rage. “confusion!” said he, “What is the matter, dear Lady Melville V
“Dear Lady Melville! — Oh! then your pious Ladyship is not averse to intrigue, though you can condemn me/’ said she, in a rage, looking at me “But I will be politer than your insolence deserves — I will leave you to enjoy your lover.” So Saying, she curtesy’d Scornfully, and took herself away.
What mad woman is this said his
/
Lordship, as she departed, for he did not recollect her.
I informed him who she was, and What had passed between us. He commended me for treating her as she deserved, being a woman of so loose a character, that it was improper to visit or have any connexion with her. But it is ' high time to conclude. We are exceeding busy in preparations for our solemn engagement. Flarriot will inform you,
my
\ ( ’
H TT M A N L T F E. oag
my dear friend, when it is cornpleated. Assure yourself I shall always be your affectionate
VA.
Melvilli.
y
>.
Sffy
■L V ^ '■■ V
fire V v; .-;
- : •■’ ~.S N' V..
■' S ■ --. ' ■- -. A ■ ■ ' -
'■ N '-' ■ ■ - ■ '
- ■ ■- - \
- - ' ’
\
h -1
-. V '
i
Lady
i
50 THE MUTABILITYOF
Duncan to Mrs. Gordon.
Melville park.
Never was a fet of mortals happier
than we are here, Gordon. The me ment after Adelaide was irrevocably united to Lord Villars, we posled hither, where love and friendship divide our hours. The dear creature has received congratulations from all her friends on the occasion. Villars is such an amiable character, they could not object against; him. You perceive, my dear .Gordon, by this couple of lovers, that virtue is sometimes rewarded even in this world, where your thinking people will allow only wickedness and deceit to be met with. For my part, I cannot grant it so — Good and evil are certainly blended — Many characters are worthy of immortal fame, some meet with a reward here, some not : but I am a creature of too volatile a mould for moralising — that business I leave to you and Adelaide. — What an admirable philosophical pair will she and Villars make, — you will complete the trio, and in time perhaps, when my hairs are silvered over with age, I may improve by your lectures, with a
young
 . 251
young brood around us. It will then be time to think.
Poor archer’s cheerfulness is affected — I often find her weeping when alone— — Villars Still adheres to her heart, but she will be compelled soon to go with her father to Scotland; new objects, I hope, will rellore her tranquillity, though, alas! a sincere love is hard to be eradicated. Clairville seems to have a friendship commencing for her, she allows his merit, — but as yet they both appear distant from the union we hoped for. Her sister infoims her, Lady Emma has peremptorily refused Captain F -- -- -- -- --, and
still sighs out Villars’ name; all men are indifferent to her but him, therefore she is determined to gratify her vanity and
ambition. The old Marquis of — —
has renewed his addresses, and Flora Archer thinks ihc will accept him. Lady Clandon pursues her intrigues, which her Lord entirely overlooks. Adelaide has received a very affectionate letter from Mr. Villars. She and my Lord intend paying him a visit in a few months. I have news to infoim you of, which escaped my memory in my two last epistles. Fluellen, alias Burton, is numbered with the deaff Mrs. Harpur accused her of Some misconduct, at which she ssew into
a violent
52
a violent passion, — her rage continued,
and a few hours after she fell into a fit
\
which she expired in. The Doctors imagined it proceeded from her perturbation of spirits; a good warning, Gordon, for us to calm our passions.
To make amends for this tragic account, I will inform you that Adelaide is in daily expectation of feeing her friend, Lady Connor. Now is your wit at work to know who this Lady Connor can be. I will relieve you, my dear creature. She was the amiable Madam Hermon, of whom our friend spoke so favourably. Sir Charles Connor is no other than the Mr. Smith who offered Adelaide his friendship at Paris, and had very near fought a duel with Melville for treating her so unworthily. He at that time paid his addresses to his present Lady, and had heard her often commend our friend, which increased his esleem, and made him interest; himself in her happiness. Monsieur Hermond died sometime after. The title, in the interim, fell to Sir Charles, and at a proper time, the widow married him. They carle to England, when she directly inquired for Lady Melville, (now Villars,) and wrote to her. — Adelaide was sincerely rejoiced to hear from her, and is promised a visit,
when
\
XA .TI * X
when we shall have an additional pleasure.
Does your Cousin never intend to regain her health, that we may have you once more among us Positively, Gordon, it is quite unreasonable for her to confine you So long, ahd deprive you of congratulating and rejoicing personally with your friend, on So happy an event as her marriage with Villars. Make your escape,
I charge you, and come to receive the friendly embraces of
Your
Harriot Duncan.
\
'f
/.
y
r I N I s.
»
\
