■ w 
O F THE 
« 
i’rince of the N a z a r e n e s ■ 
i f .t r '■ ‘ 
AND 
• *♦ 
'K. ■ •. *, ^ ', * • 
* }*'•. 
To which is added, 
The Fatal A M O U R between a 
>' 
Beautiful LADY, and a Young ' 
.^g^oblem AH. 
Humanrn fortes non tribuend^ fmt Portitn^^ ant Cafidt^ ant Side rum infuxui *, fed Pro 
vido DA Oculoy ejusdem Marmi rec trki... — 
V .'. 
» 
• • 
\ 
« 
S 
L 0 K p 0 N : 
V 
Printed, for f. Moore near St. fauvs^churci^ 
Tard <1719. [Price One Shilling.] 
/ 
I 
( o 
^ ^ •, * ■ 
* » r W 
'
THE 
# ' 
*. * 
« 
CT T * n 
ogcret oiltory 
O F T H E 
r 
% 
I 
fence of the N a z aren e a 
»*■ — — — — — i — — Mi — > II I 
•5. _ » ■ 
HHE Prince of the Eaza > 
renfs is Sprung from one of the most ancient and illustrious Families in Europe A Family which has shone. very resplen* fet in former Agesj and furnish’d tha inlighten’d World, with inany Princely 
A z ^ 
p 
v r.'. f 2 ■ f ^^d^x 'av rirird'd^d. 
* "i? 
Jfferters of ths na^arene Law : Among the rest, none Seems to have a more strict Megard to the Mfe and dobrine of the Tiiighty twj&^ti?r, his’ Ma than this present Prince, who now ffourishes and reigns in the Hearts of all his Subjects. 
As he has had alt the Advantage of Birth and Education, To Providence tn dow’d him with a Soul capable of attaining to all that’s Good mdi Great, 
And whereas the Dregs of the World, whose Eyes are too weak to bear the lui fire of his Virtues, have been vilely and' malitioufly excited to fling their Pari Scuin at his Royal R erf on and Family yet the more penetrating and judicious Part of Mankindj take delight in contemplating the many noble Excellencies, and Blessings they share in that Part of the 
Adm'mtftration ho has over them. 
pand tho’ Some Princes before him, have: 
been So weak, as to Suffer their Creatures to push ’em upon fatal Measures, yet we see in him, Such an against Ar 
J library and Despotic Power., that it is as 
an Article of Faith with him. That Princes ought to have the tendered Regard io the coftfcie'mas of their subjebs, And that it is a Mischief, attended with, the meji fatal cmfeqiiencesy < to‘ ahife their' 
Sower ^ 

(3 )■ 
lower and break'in ufon the Rights of their People— — ' 
tsot only founded upon Reason, the equitable Law of liature, but even revealed Religion itself which can lead no Prince astray ty but rathef swell his Monarchy to the utmost Limits : When, on the other hand, we have Seen, that an excessive Rigour, used without Cause, has been very unsuccessful to fovtit Princes ^ for, by its alienating the Hearts of the People, they have grown Weary under their Government, and once wisely) by a general Gonfent, resolved to cnoofe themselves better Masters. Nay, it has had such an tsw Tendency( 
( may be fb call’d) that they have Seen apt to assert, Eot only a Right of Chustng thednfelves a Sovereign, but like -- wise, a Right to Divest him of that Pow, #>, cafe he makes an ill life of it. — 
But as the Validity of this Contfoverjy, is none of our Province to decide, we shall wave it, and only Say, That when Princes expose themselves to tms y use their Subjects as if they were brute Beasts ^ and, without Scruple, violate the mbst invio mble and Sacred Rights, they run a very nice Hazard of losing Jll •, which cart 
only be regain’d, but by Blood and Slaughter 
< 
ter; and that too, very Seldom, thro’ th Aversion their Subjects have to Defpotk Power * especially it those who have 
Right to expect; that, their Sovereign should Submit to the Laws. which mu tually engage them one to another. 
But, left the Reader should observe bi this Digression, that 
f’ 
Subject,, will return to the Charade of the Nazarene Prince : And as, we on ly design to give a short Account of hi moult important Actions, we will slip o yer those of his youthful Years, and com immediately to Speak of him at his en tring upon the Administration of a Sovereign Prince. 
As Soon as he held the Reins of Go 
»•. / 
verntnent., he betook himself to a ftrk Application, in order to the enriching hi Subjects y and show’d himself very liberal, and of a tender and gentle Nature He has a great and generous Soul, witi as much Solid Wit as any Prince in thi 
Age ^ both Friends and Enemies ackriow ledge it, by doing him Justice herein. 
P V As to his htmour/n is generally Grave K; ‘ and attrading, ( as his 4/^6'^ J but free 
and easy of Access y which finishes th. Number of those Talents peculiar to; 
Monarch.. ■. 
. S) 
Tbcfe Qualifications, of themselves, aye sufficient to render him Complete but there are yet still greater to come. He is iadmir’d by all the World, for his firm nefs of Courage, which cannot be Sufficiently esteem’d *, the greatness of his Heart, andstie Dependance he has upon the Astistance of the Emperor his Mafier^ wliose Saith he defends, buoys him up, and protests him against all the Rage of the heathen World. His Majler had a treacherous Minister, that bore an eminent .post under him ^ his vice roy^has had many of the same Spirit, whole fatal En terprizes might even make ’em Wish, Tia Miljlone were tfd about their iiecks^ and that they were thrown into the Sea, So that it may be Said of him, as of the Palm tree^ the more it is burthen’d, the liiorc it raises its Head, and fiourishes. 
As to martial Affairs he has approv’d himself an experienc’d General, when in the Field j not followingbn the one hand, the Example of those who steep at their Ease on Beds of Down, whilst their braver Soldiers expose their Lives for their Interests, and are over whelm’d with Fatigue and Hardship : nor given in to the stovenly Meanneffes of others, whole def jjerate, ( or rather mad) Exploits, in the 
North ^ 
, ■ 
• » 
CO. 
iiohh, have been as diverting as thpfe qf Don Qulxot.^ and the winclmtu : But his Method was to keep Such Safi: Intelligence, as that he knew everything, and 
could keep a Padlock upon his Intentions, and remain absolute Master of a Secren 
.Had his great benefauor^ -- -- -- - now Immortal, 
gbscrv’d Sp close a reserv’dnese^ 
the Treachery of the Ji — e of B -- -- -- —, 
the F— — / — and the mercenary i know not what, ' of S— —, not expos’d his Councilsjfo often, to the breaking of allihis measares. -- -- But, 
To proceed There is Such a Sense of 
Gratitude in him, that he never suffers asine Adipn to go unrewarded. So that it’s no Flattery to affirm, that he has distinguish’d himsclf Sublimely among the princes of this Age., 
He is not only Master of most; languages, but has read much, and retain’d it all ^ and understands the Excellency and ufefulness of Authors extremely There is no Secret in philofopjt^, either Ancient or Modern, but what he has penetrated ^ and more particularly 
Not that the of it, engross 
all his Inclinations to themselves, fei his Subjests have a great Satire in them mi as well as his astesionso 
^ ^ - ■ ■ And 
( o 
,, And as for this prince’s Lineage, in general, we find, by the Several Gened -- iogies in History, that he claims a lineal descent as a Sovereign Prince, for above Seven Hundred Years 5 the Family ha, viog produced Several Emperors and em preffes, bestdes a long Train of Kings and Princes : So that even most of the Potentates of Europe are descended front this Family •, bestdes an eiiiinent Tribe oiecclefiali icks., as Arch bishops, Bishops,; 
Spiritual Princes. 
In short, this Prince of the Natdarenesi is the more Illustrious, in that there runs thro’jiis Veins, not only the Britifi Blood, but that of France the ancient pibs^ 
Danes, Swedes, Saxons, and Eormans. 
So that he exceeds all the Sovereigns on Earth, for the Antiquity of his Royal Descent, being now the most Potent, and Opulent Assertor of the na^anne Doarine. 
And that the Sed of the Nazarenes. iaight be secur’d from jpojtatiz, ing into their former State of Pfeudo worfiip, fy nonombtis with the Practice of Pagans,; providence has given this Prince, a nuine: fous Issue, well Educated, and Instruded in the new Laws and Ordinances of their 
, ntightj Emperorwhtvthy paq ilaut egle 
B Stan 
(.D. 
Jian "Patriarchsy whose Expedationsare beyond Alps, can never have it in thcii Power, to Saddle their Princes, and ride ’em to Destudion as they have done formerly. 
. I have Seen amongst the most nicest Pictures in this prince’s Court, ah Origina Piece representing one of the Branches oi his Family, a most accomplish’dj and brave Prince, yet the implicitness of his Faith, and the freenessof his Nature, once funl him into So much Submission to the Must at Rome, as to hold the Cup to him on Pay at .Dinner, So long on his Knee befon he took it, that the crimson Retinue abou him, were asham’d of his treating So grea a Prinre in that manner *, telling hiti that it was time he should take the Cu] and'drink. — 
, But instead of conipensating for this AS front, his Spiritual Arrogance, continuet a greater Piece of Ingratitude towards hin in the following History of it. 
This Prince suspeding he should hav ” isfue by his Queen, persuaded her t” ” a certain Cousin of his and mar ry his Niece. Which was no Soon done, but the Mufti persuaded him t ** a Disobedience, and the highest Ingra utude, and excited him to rebel aghinl 
hi 
( 8) 
■** his adopted Parents * upon which, they ” justly took up Arms against him, and befieg’d him in a strong forrress notsar from Rome. But the success was very unfortunate •, for by a barbarous srrata gem, the adopted Son brib’d an aid ” Soldier, in whom the King and Queen ” had confided, to counterfiet her ** Seal, whom his Party had invested ” in another fortress ^ and in her Name, ” to write to the King, that with Six of his Confidents, he should come to her ^ by a private Avenue nam’d in her Let ’’ ter *, otherwise she must Surrender and fall into the Hands of her Enemies but that she had Something to propose to ’’ him, that would baffle their Designs” ” King believing the Letter real, follow’d the Instrudions in it, and Set ” out accordingly but was intercepted ” by a Party in Ambufeade, and carry*d ’’ before his adopted Son, who put him ” in Prison for three Years. During ’f which time, his unhappy Queen was ” taken and putto Death. -- — 
The preserving of this Piece in the Nar t^arene Family, must certainly excite ’em to a very profound Regard to the present Mufti who has labour’d h^rd to gi 
B 2 ’ a 
/ 
V 
(5) 
st Specimen ofthegood Will be bears them : And stis the rather inferred here, that the Reader may recoiled what fatal conse quences have attended the Counterfeiting the Seals of Princes, at the Instigation of the Mttfti oi Romey informer Days. 
No doubt, but the present Prince of the nax>annes had an Eve upon this 
Picture, when the E — -- -- -- -- of C — 
was stir’d up by the Muftiy to persecutd the peaceable Eazarenes in his Territories 1 and induced him to send his vete ^ • 
ran Troops into the E -- -- -- -- *s Capital 
City, to malcc the Muftih Dragoon, keep to the Solemn Treaties he had agreed to, in relation to the Spiritual Affairs of his ^ubjeds. 
And notwithstanding, this Bully stomach’d the Conduct of the Nazarene Prince, ’tis certain he could find no Expedient to prevent it. All that he could do, after repeated Advices from the Mufti, was to draw up a tedious and absur’d Remonstrance of his Grievances, which he laid before the Grand Cahjtl of Princes. 
But this Remonjirance was Soon filenc’d by a Mamfejfo from the Prince. Fof when it was brought into Debate, in a full Congress, the E -- -- -- ’s own Creatures 
could not justify those wholesome Sevi 
'ventiies 
% 
» • f ■ > 
I 
( *0) 
vefities he Iiad infiiffed upon the cotifd entious pla^arenes. So that they una niniously resolv’d, 
4 
I. That the Prince ef the Nazarenes 
* i ' 
had "ju/ike on his fide., in throm 
ing his Troops into the E -- -- -- *s Capital 
City, since it was conformable to the Tenor of the Treaty fiipulated 
between the Tyro Powers And, 
# 
adly, That having loopd into several' ' Treaties since, they found a farther Right confirmed to the. na zarene Prince, by which he was at liberty, upon any Infringements of the same, to levy Troopy, and d himself Jufiice* 
4 
Tastly, That they could not so much ' as desire the Prince of the naza renes, to withdraw his Troops from the E — — ’s Capital, till the Grievances of the Nazarenes were redrefs^d ^ it being inconsistent with the Honour and Faith of Princes 
This 
^ V; 
/ 
( ") 
This Affair being thus decided, th b^ceffary Orders were given, ( though mue 
• fgttinfi the Grain) for the re instating th iiazarenes^ in the Spiritual Rights an Friviledges they formerly enjoy*d, to th great Mortification of the Mufu^ and h sanguine Party. 
t N i; r • • 
* i 
We return now to take a Prospect( ( Demonstrations of Joy his Subjef exprefs’d upon this Occasion. Every or 
• threw'up Exultations to Heaven, and e;; p^refs’d with grateful heart’s, their A( knowledgments for this Divine Favxiur* 
There were public thanksgivings fi apart thro’ the whole Territories of tl Frince ^ and the Cannon from the Ran parts of the Castle were firm, with ail C Cher Suitable Demonstrations of Joy. 
'And what made the Joy more univei laj, was no doubt the Remembrance C 
fatal Year, wherein another of tl 
^ i y 
Bigots, most cruelly put to deat tjie Flower of the Nazarene Nobility, a 
ter he had ruin’d one of the finest Gout 
» 
itries in the World, with Fire and Blood And that the Wefiern Nazarenes m never apostatize to So bloody a Religioi wc will insert the following Account < 
, t - 

( 12) 
Tis not yet a complete Century fince 
the grand father and grand inother of 
; 
this present Prince of the Nazarenes were unjustly depriv’d not only of their elestive Kingdom, but of their own Hereditary Dominions his implacable Enemy penetrating into the very Bowels of their capital City, and oblig’d ’em to fly to Some more hospitable Country for refuge' ' 
persecuting Conqueror having thus 
gain’d his Point ^ he took Such cruel Methods with the distressed Nazaunes^ that perhaps the like was never known 
First then, he seiz’d the chiefest of the Nobility in the Kingdom, and put them into. prison. Then on a fatal Day, af stgn’d to ad this Tragedy, a Piece of Ordnance was discharg’d, which was to be the Signal of it. As Soon as it was heard, all the Gates of the City were shut, and the persecutor’s Forces took Possession of them, and of most parts of the City. 
, When they found theraselves in a Condition to undertake anything without Fear, a Scaffold was erected in an open place, upon which mounted a tall Man all in Black, whth a masque upon his Face, and a Crucifix in his Hand. They gave him the fatal Name of Herald of 
Death, 
f 
t 
✓ 
• / 
., I o’ )'.... 
, I \ ^ ^ ^ ■ r' ' ' 
reason that his Office was to signify it to those to whom the hang inan was to give it. 
After .this mournful Introduction, the 
most Illustrious Eazarene Noblemen of 
^ « 
the Kingdom, were brought out of Dungeons ^ Several of which Lords being Venerable by Birth, yet they had all the same Fate, which was, to fall by the Sword of the Executioner. 
« ’’ 4 
Nor did the Rage of the Miifti's Dragoon end here which put the best Families of the Kingdom into Mourning t His Malice extended yet farther - thirsting after the total Extirpation of the ^arenes. he caus’d The Charters and pa tents, together with all other Papers and Pafchments, which contain’d the most valuable Privileges of their Cities, to bd fcrought before him ^ and having a great Fire lighted in his pfefence, she stung thcni all into it, saying, 
Mis tbits that fitch unhappy Infiruments^ which have given so much Double and Vexation to my Fredeceffors.^ mtght td pe' 
'
njo. 
And thiis it was that this fine Kingdom was reduc’d into a miserable State of Servitude, and Captivity, 
Having 
. ( ‘5) 
, Helving Spoken coi)cisely of this difin^ Affair, we return to the prince’s Courts which was very Splendid. He gave great incoliragement to Foreigners to resort to itj by bis colleding together one of the finest libraries in the World 
^ • : 
Nor was he wanting to encourage Arts and Sciences, which found vast Improvements by hira^ in their Several Branches, particularly Mecbamfms *, much to the Advantage of his Subjects, who were thereby inrich’dj and in a flourishing Goad it ion, ' 
„ And now. having weakly finish’d the Character of this great Prince, in his iie^ rejitarj/dominions^ we will follow, hint into the Field, at a Time, when his Faith and Alliances call’d him to Vindicate the Honour of the Christian Europe against 
Turks Infidelsk ^, 
, There had been handed about, at his going into the, Army, an ancient Prophecy, or rather Hieroglyphkk, in, the Arabian Tongue, which poffess’d most People with a strong impulse, that God had visibly declar’d in Favour of him. 
those that pretend to explain hiero gljfphicks^ would do well to employ their Wif§ about this *, and try if they have 
C Eyei 
« 
() 
Eyes strong enough to Scrutinise, and unfold the Mysteries of it. ^ 
It was. The Repfefentation of an Arne thi(i in a ri?fg^ which had two prcfpebs • the one representing( ( mrebly np on it ') an Angel, holding over the Head oj a comely Man, a Crown, with this Motto found it. The Belgick lyon’s Legacy full fil’d. But looking oblong, or sideways, it afforded the profpeb of a Person on Horfe pack, with a drawn Sword in his Hand, and his Enemies aiming to shoot Mm through the Back, with tjhis Motto, Save, generous Ottomans, they 
But as the Reader will hear more of this, in the Sequel of our History, we will look into his Succcffes in the Fields 
} 
His Actions in Several Places, quickly let the World see that Fortune waited upon all his Condust, to declare everywhere in his Favour. So that he met with a Reception from his' Confederates, with all the endearing carelses imaginable. 
^ Mis prefmned by tloe Compiler of these' 'Sheets, that the Explanation of this hie roglyphick, is the peculiar Province of the iy^i/r/(9 nazarene Students, grazing upon the Banks Isis, and famous for invent -- mg Annually dark and amufmg jiigmd^s, 
IP T -. 
< f) 
4 
Maying already Spoken largely to Some .material Circumstances arising from the Antiquity and Fidelity of this illustrious Family ^ we will look a little into the Actions of the nearest in Blood, to the Prince of the 
The Prince his Brother, born about a Tear after him, was a most hopeful and promising Prince, in whom might be Seen many of the noble Accomplishments which shone in his illustrious Ancestors. he' had a wife, penetrating Genius, with a strong Inclination to acquire; Glory by the Sword : Which Resolution led him to take up Anns against the Jnfidels, who blasphemously bid Defiance to the mighty Emperor of the isj.fttdtarenes* 
Many and brave wcre the Actions of '* this gallant Prince, the me^nory of which deserves to he transmitted to Posterity, for the stngular Bravery, and undaunted Cou ■ ' which attended them. 
For, he had not ^uite arrivm to the Age of Thirty, before he spent the last Drop of his Blood, and dym gloriously in the Field, being kill’d in a Battle against Infidelsto the unrpeakablecrief of his most illustrious Family, 
The Third Brother is yet living, and is a Prince every way deserving the Trusts 
C 2 repos’d 
# 
y 
(*8) 
'i epos^d in him, particularly that most nn portant Post he now enjoys, as Chief General of ain Army compos’d of the bravest Troops. 
The Fourth princely Brother, niagna nimous'in Soul, tho’ tender in Years, fell. a Sacrifice to the rude pagans, as he pussit vigorously into the midst of the enemy’s Troops, about the q 1st Year of his Age. 
The Fifth, no ways inferior to the for imer, for Valour and Conduct, took also to the Wars i in one of which Battles it was 
J '* * 
his Fate to bs kill’d by the then declining fjauls, about fifteen y’ears since. 
There is another Prince, the youngest of them all ^ from whom stows many noble Endowments of Mind, and graceful Ornaments of the Body, which renders him a most accomplish’d Prince. 
There is also a most incomparable prin cefs living, a strict Nazarene, marry’d to a potent Monarch, of the same Religion, who is a great Barrier against TAND hi? Mujjulmeti. 
It would fill a Volumn to ctveanac count of the numerous Issue Heaven has biefs’d this Family with ^ which, in ail likelihood, will shine resplendent, and stoiirhh, till the coming of their mighty Emhcron ■ ' 
N? We 
I 
( o) 
We will theresore leave this pleasing 
Subject, to finish what we have promis’d jn our Title, in relation to the Occurrences of Two { Supposed)) We say, (fuppcfed) because our Religion wisely prohibits our giving in to a Belief of /; * fallimtity, So that whether Turks, Gre^ dans, or Armenians, we will not determine, Not but if they were either of these, they might be more deserving than many modern Europeans, whole Religion and Loyalty have not been altogether So conspicuous and bright, as tp make them boast of their Prinpiples. 
But, supposing tern Turks, they may be Honest, and Generous, notwithstanding the Prejudices of their Education in Matters of Religion. 
Tis therefore, the ipquifitive Reader, ( who, Chamelion vike, feeds upon airy a mufements) is defir’d, not to make the following an Article of Faith *, but take it just as' it occurs, in the following Acx 
(pqunt we here give of it. 
# 
All European Christians are sensible 
that the Turks are very striist in their Mo fals, and consequently true to their Word, There is among them, as in other Nations, the Spirit of Gratitude and Magnanimity; 
^ < a ' V / - * ** '* i ’ i ^ W 
To 
if * 
• r 
( 20) 
so that whatever they may differ from u chrijiiansj they in a great measure attoi for, by their Ads of Justice and Honou 
It was upon tkefe Principles, that the Turks., of no mean Extradion, but rath< Noble by Birth, ( some say the Kaitm 
Sons) went as Volunteers intotf Ottoman Army, which was then bendir its Force against some Farts of the christ an Empire 
The late Instance of a War between tl Imperialiftf and Turks, must Swell the Re der’s Thoughts, with what vast Number and magnificent Appearance, the Turks C fually take the Field ^ So that it Suffices t y, that as the Army always carries immense Riches with it. Soit must be cor eluded, every one makes a Splendid Ap. pcarance suitable to bis Quality and Post. Among the rest, our two young Turk in the Wars Some Years since, made n Small Appearance in the Field, 
They were not many Days in the Ar iny, before they were allarm’d with th approach of their Enemy, who were up 
on a full March to attack them in they 
/. ... 
jntrenchments; Whereupon the Otto mn Generals, immediately gave the necef jary Qrders to receive them ^ so that in; 
I • 
(51) 
few Hours, there began a most defperafe. 
Engagement between both Armies. 
Many brave Actions were here perfor ihed on both fides *, but none more immortal, than those of the eaz^arene vnncq., whose intrepid Courage and Bravery, bore 
down before him, all the Resistance his 
» ^ 
Enemies could make. 
Twas with Admiration, that the radre 
Honourable of the Ottomans Saw him do these Wonders who, though an Enemy, and one, who by the strictness of his Southeast was oblig’d to treat them, and their Prophet Mahomet, - as impious Slaves and Infidels, they could do no less than have a particular Regard for his invincible Conduct. 
Among the rest of his Admirers, were these two Turks, who engaging in the very nejst Line, had obferv’d his Bravery, and kept a very watchful Eye upon him. They fav/ that what Some of their Officers could ncrt do honourably, they were basely contriving with Some false fenesy to do by Treachery. They saw.. mounted on Heaps of flaughter’d spahps, making his Way through Blood y and with Horror perceiv’d the runagade Astastins at the very Minute they were going to execute their hellish ifcason 
and 
( 23) 
and Cowardice; and ’twas. at the same 
* J 
time, that one of the Turks broke through' the Ranks, and with his Sabre Split the Head .of the miscreant, ' before he had time to discharge his Pistol. 
Nor was his Comrade volunteer less anxious Sot his Preservation - animated with the same Principle of Honour rode up to another Wretch, and Seizing him by the Beard, atone Blow Sent hi ns out of the World. 
This was n6 Sooner done, but the Turks observing one of the Baffas to rally with a strong Body of Cavalry, they rode off with the Prince, in conjunction with Some Troops, which came in to his Ashstance. 
* The Battle being over the Nasiareni Prince, born with G'ratifude, i made it his first bufiness to Reward his Deliverers taking them into his Tent, and embrac’d them alternately, with, the utmost Demonstrations of his Princely Favour and affe dion bestow’d, munificent Gifts upon ’em '.y and gave ’em the liberty of bein always near and dear to his Princely person: : herein clbfely to the Method of Some Eajlern Princes, in not preferring persons purely for. the greatnessi of their Birth, but for the Merits and Virtues of the Mind. 
They 
% 
* 
( 23) 
i They having thus accepted of the prince’s Protedioh, with infinite Acknowledgments, have ever since continued next to his Princely perspn, performing all the faithful Offices Day and Nighty peculiar to So great a Trust. 
In all his Progresses, they accompany him ‘ and not only Shave him, with the most Delicacy, and softness, but are ash fisting in the Dresting. and Undressing of 
his person. 
, Their midnight Minutes, are Spent alternately, ( Sometimes jointly) in a piercing Vigilance, whilst the happy Pillow lulls his thoughtful and mighty Genius to 
Rest. 
» 
*. V ■- 
At the performing their Devoirs to him, they, obferye the most profound Respect ^ ’tis upon the Knee, that they either 'approach, or withdraw from his pfesence. Nay, they have been Seen prostrating themselves before him, and kissing the Earth out of that awful Regard they had to a Prince, so much the peculiar Care of Providence. 
D And 
¥ 
i 
✓ 
/ 
( H) 
% 
« 
And as this nearness to his Person, and the Ccnfidehce the prince has repos’d in thein, must needs let ’em in to Some of the niinutcft Astions of his Life, so have they been heard to Speak of his illustrious Virtues, with the greatest Veracity ahd Honour. 
r 
Among the rest, they have declar’d, what the World does now own, That he 
is so wife a Vnnee^ he will not suffer the leaf Piece of Service to him, to go unrewarded ^ sparing no Cof for the good of his suhjebs, I hat he is sofar from giving in tan effeminate Delicacy that his Looks are not only piercing, but maje slick, commanding an awful refpeb and t)i fiance y not declining the doing Justice e ven to the Poor as well as the Rich, Nor easily jhocpd at the formidable Appearances, and Menaces, of his Enemies, either at Home or Abroad, That the Greatness of Majesty, to which Divine Providence has call*d hint, has not made Mm less Thoughtful or Ajjiduons in his fliptdating advantageous Treaties arid Alliances, with the zd.eat« efl Monarchs, That he has a great Soul, with a copious and liberal Disposition: : 
addib^d to Intemperance, er Excess, but 
( 25) 
€ontinent and Re fervid. That his Religion Is pure and fiad^ free from Idolatry and Superjiition. 
these, and rtiany other are the deser ved Characters of the Nazarene Prince; of which, all the illustrious, and true na zarenes about him, are Witnesses, and whose Esteem fcrr him is Such, that they are ready to lay down their Lives and Fortunes in the Defence of his Sacred Person and Government 
To conclude. If the Reader is not full 
I •' 
ly Satisfied, in the above Relation of the Two Turks and will yet be So Inquisitive as to know more than we can inform him, he must be guilty of a great Misdemeanour, and ill Manners, in Satisfying his indiscreet Curiosity, since the Cabinets of princes are not to betmlocpd at every one s fleafure, 
F I K 1 S 
• » • 
\ 
A 
/ 
THE ■ 

• I 
4 A 
A 
w 
% 
i 
(37) 
} 
THE 
* 
jfatal sawottr 
BETWEEN A 
beautisul LADY, 
A N D A 
0 
Tomig NOBLE MAN. 
^q^tmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmtmmmmmm^t ■■■■■■■■ ■■ 
d. k V 
need not Search into hi story for Instances of un 
I^^W happy Marriages *, the Age Hi ^ jo we live in, affords to in 
ny of that kind : And though but a melancholy Subjdst, to treat on, yet ’ds necessary to 
he known Sometimes, that both Sexes in 
';; A * 
/ 
; 
the State of Matrimony, may, by t Misfortunes of others, prevent their ov 
Ruin. 
'1 
As the Soul of Man governs the B dy. So ought the Woman to be fuborc nate to the Man. All Nations give t Superiority and Domination to him : 1 
that the Woman, in Matrimony, is ti greatest Right and pr&perty a Man C poltefs. 
How bold 5ttd daring, then, how he ribly impious, must that Robber appe? who is for breaking in upon So flcred Rite .<? Certainly, there cannot be i: vented a Punishment Softer, than Deat 
j 
to atlone for this Violation ^ and whi( 
the injur’d Husband has often Author! 
on his fide, to punish with his own Hanc 
• ^ 
The fair Sex, in this British Clime, ha' no reason to reproach Foreigners, for the lascivious Treasons and Felonies, since tl Abuse of those Privileges they enjoy above other Women, have not made ’e caorc Virtuous, or Chaste. 
4 
• • 
Wou! 
$ 
I 
* 
( ap) 
^ >• i ^ 
Would they be govern by the dic fates of Virtue, they’d gladly Copy after the Lady Theano in Plutarch, who, as she was Dreshng herself one Morning, casually exposed her naked Arm to a geh tleman then present, who feeing it, was 
pleas’d to Compliment her thus : 
• « 
\ 
Madam, your Ladijhip has a mojt de Ticate, and lovely Skin, 
1 allow it Sir, ( Said she) hut what adds 
to its Delicacy and Lavelinefs, is, that it is referv^d for no other P erf on but my Husband, 
•. ^ 
\ 
Intitfiating, that not only the Arm of z virtuous Woman ought not to be exposed in common to every rude Eye •, but that the whole Body should be kept vail’d from every one but her Husband. 
But So far is the fair Sex advancm in the Height of Immodesty, in their Dress, that it is not dishcult for a wanton Eye to discover those Parts, the concealing of which, ought to be the greatest orna hient of their Sex. 
But 
» • 
? 
9 V 
( 3c) 
‘, But Precepts and Examples to the cor 
trary, ’tis fear’d, will have little Influenc here. Since the repeated Declamations froi the Pulpit, have not touch’d their Heari 
liyith any true Notions of Virtue, or He noiir. 
L '• 
f * V 
But leaving them to Surfeit in their ow extravagant Follies, and come to the nia ter in hand : 
% 
I 
« 
Whether or ngr that the following mouy, has run its length to a State C Impenitency in the fair 7ranfgreffor, w have not yet certain Intelligence, no mor than what became of her Gallant *, wh might justly deserve to' be sacrific’d abov all mankind* 
So that there needs no other Introdu 
♦ 
stion to this Piece, than what the Read er will find in the following LETTER from an injur’d Husband to his Father inlaw, 
, 
( 31) 
*/ « 
‘ C 
\ 

My Lordy 
'
i * tf ' • ' t 
1 
T^otwithstanding the tiearnefs in Blood 
to your illustrious person, the many weighty. xaffairs you have now under » your Hand, and the constant Application you have for die Welfare of your noble Family, yet, lure I am, yoii cannot but be Sensible of the Uneasiness I am under when I write to you, what would move the most obdurate to Pity. 
’tis therefore, I am perfuadedj the great hefs ofyour Soul minds nothing more, than to Comfort the astiided^and Support those who are oppress’d, This emboldens me to give you the trouble of Reading an account of some Undecencies, and Violences 
I have foster’d of late, which, I believe,; will move your Compassion * I have not drawn them upon my self by any ill con dud. You, yourself, Sir, shall judge of it, and, if you please, remedy in. You know. Sir, how I marry’d into your most Illustrious hduse, ' and took to my Bed, Madam Your Daughter 
vihose Beauty and many Noble Endowments of Mind, render’d her worthy of the greatest Monarch And I must further 
E own 
♦ 
4 
% 
own to you, that in the beginning of oiiif Union, her Ladyship pay’d me all the Devoirs, to which it engagessthofe who know the Obligations of it y and that I thought tny Self belov’d by her with all the faith fuiness imaginable. I answer’d her Esteem, 
. and Gareffes, according to the Affections amd tinderness of a Husband y and, I dare persuade myself, that my beautiful Spouse had no Cause to complain either of my Coldness, Complaisance, or of my Returns. So that we liv’d happy at that time and Heaven, who Saw our Intelligence, shew’d that he approv’d of it, by bleshng our Marriage. We had in the first Years Several Children - I did not doubt, but that my spouse, feeing that I made her Mother of a Youth, that promis’d all that could be expected from Us,, would yet strcighten those Bonds closer which engag’d him to me. But,; alas! I wa&strangely mistaken, for in a few Years, I began tb perceive, that my Spouse was tyr’d when we were by ourselves *, and that she had no longer that Air, and indearing asped which I usually beheld in her. She Soon added disdain to her ill humour, and I found myself treated in a haughty manner, which touch’d me to the Soul. 
As my Conduct has ever been very re 
rv iii 
\ 
S 33) 
gislar, and that I never had anything to .reproach myself of, J imagin’d,! should ie able to regain ray spouses Affections, not being in the least inclin’d to believe, ithat she could ever give in to So much Indifference, as to let another share that Part of my Bed, which was tny only Right and Property. I imagin’d, that this goldness would Soon be over, and that by a due Care, and strict Penetration, I Should be able to triumph over any Injustice that should invade me. But, I found, to my misfortune, that I was mistaken •, and I was but too well convinc’d of it, by an Adventure, •- which pierc’d ray Hearty whereof I am constrain’d to give you, Sir, a particular Relation. 
You know. Sir, that It is a custom ar inong persons of Quality, to give one a nother a l^ew years .Gift, on sew years day. I thought I should oblige my Lady, by making her a present at that time. I chose to that end, one of the finest and considerable Jewels I had, which, with a Compliment Suitable to the Occasion, I caus’d to be presented to her. But the Lady, your Daughter, receiv’d it with a diseoatented Air, and told me in a haughty manner,. That / milt have fpapj that 
coj^^ fmee fia had too many of fneh Trifles 
_ l2 Ay 
ri. 
4 
( 34) 
hyper already. And to add an xaffront to ber pisdain, that very Day fly giveaway that fine present, to a Young Nobleman, who had Merit enough in him to deserve it, had he not made ill use of those generous Entertainments I gave him in my Family; 
But, as iny Lord, it was Some Time before I knew of this Affront, which touched me so nearly, yet, I must confefsto you, that to ease myself, I was willing to impart my Uneasiness to Some Person I could confide in; To that end, 1 unhappily took for my Confident, that perfidious Nobleman just before mention’d, who (as I have since reason to believe) was the Gaufe of my Misfortunes, as I will tell you in a moment. For, when he perceit ved that I had made fiira Master of all my Secrets, he at first feem’d to Sympathise with me, as a Friend, and when I saw him thus concern’d, 1 asked his Advice what to do on that Occasion, He answer’di 
Sir, yoii are prudent: But had I a Wife that used me thus I could hardly forgive her ^ and I should begin by refusing her all the Endearments fie might expeh from me. 
This was the pernicious Advice this 
Deceiver gave me, who. Some Days afters 
play’d me the basest, most impudent, and 
uiswqrthy Trick, that was ever put upon 
^ ‘, ‘ ^ 
^ 0 
\ ' » 
• 
0' 
\ 
» C 
( 35) 
a Person of my Rank and Quality. 4s | conceal’d nothing from him, and that of all the Retinue about me, I confided most in him, yet I perceiv’d he had gain’d So much Esteem with my spouse, as to weat the Jewel I gave her, even before my Face. 
You must, my Lord, acknowledge, ai Man to be of an uncommon Temper, to Support himsclf under all this — And, therefore, I presume, you will not Blame me, if I kept a very watchful Eye upon the Conduct of Madam —, Your Daughter : Not but that I had the Command 0f my Temper So far, as to Conceal my Resentments, from my false Confident. 
• At first I was refolv’d to take no Notice of this Indifcrction^ but my Pashon became too violent to hinder me from going to her Apartments, where, with Looks that bespoke Something of Justice in my Demand, I afk’d her for the Jewel I had jiung away upon her as a New years Gift The Shock she was under, to hear me ask it in Such Terms, rais’d in her Face Such Arguments of Guilt, that she had not Power to make any other Reply, Thatt 
that it might be lost for what Jbe knew 
This Loss, said 1 to her, inspires me with strange Thoughts and I fear you have made am ill ush of it. How, Sir,;.. ' answer’d 
(36) 
sfifwefd she. Do you quejiton tty Pidelity Tes, [aid 7, sincerely, I do question i and shall be very much 'persuaded, unle this Jewel be found, that you have give it to Some Gallant. To what Gallant 
f 
repl/d fie in a Transport, No Man C honour can accuse me ouch a Crime. 
.You have Spoken the Truth, added Jince no Man of Honour wilf expose biwfe iofo much Suspicion. This Reply, which Anger drew Suddenly from my ^^loutl adding to my Pashon, made me go on thu You take too much upon you Madam, i answeririg me witjo so much Insolence. Bu let me tell you, if ever you speak to me a gain in this manner, it will, perhaps, mal me do Violence to my Hature, in coverh jour Cheek, and teach you to keep witjoi the Bounds of refpeb^ 
Fear of drawing fothe disgrace upon he self, made her absolutely Silent, not wit out discovering Some sort of Emotio which was an uneafiness to her Spirii §0 that I thought it convenient to iea^ 
her to her self for that time. 
* 
But, my Lord, ’tis now Time I shou acquaint you with the Adventure which piade me first truly Sensible of the grea fiefs of my Misfortune. Some Days aft( the above Discourse, a faithful Domestk 
« 
of mifie, bappenedf to find, at the Door of * iny wife’s closer, a Letter written in French, directed to the Young Lord —. He brought it immediately to me. But, O my God [ what became of me, when I found it was a bhlet dmx, written by Madam, your Daughter, to the aforesaid person of Qijaiiry, who exprefs’d herself in the ^ following Words. 
/ j. ^ t 
To the most accomplrjlfd, (tnd Noble Lord^ 
the Lord -- -- -- - — 
* 
My Lord, 
'\ j 
IT seems difficult for me to reftfiyou any longer. Tow Love triumphs over mine 
I am vanqmjpdy and can no longer be otherwise than yours, I have exposed my self to'a thousand Dangers, hi receiving your Letters •, and I am undone nnlefs 
you prove Prudent and Faithful, Take care of preserving tthat you have writteti to me, and be grateful for the Victory you have obtained. Should you henceforward he capable offorfaking me, you were not Only the mof cruel, hut likewise the bafefl Of Mankind. It is easy to deceive our Sex, hut the easier it is, the more shame there is in doing it; Hitherto nothing has past 
l XI/HI 
^ I. 
i 
t 
C 38 > 
'J -. ' ■■ 
between Vs that we have cailfe to ■ fe^’^ pent ^ tell me then., fineerely, (ah irrefifilefs Fate, if ever there should !J whether you, will forsake me, andleave me tf the jujl ^efentments ofthofe who have a Right to Reproach me for my Indiferetion ^ arid tell it me before the fire that consumes me, be grown more violent, and before, ibe prot ceed further in an Affair, that wouldprovt. fatal to us. We mufi prop ofe an End in all things which We might never to Jwerve. from ^ and whereas those of my Sex have but little foresight, I abandon my self to your condub, and believe you will have enough for us both. Be careful of your self and me. I am afraid I fijall give my, self up to you for everand I declare to 
soil, that if you accept me on the Conditions I propose, 1 shall never be capable of iionceivipg the design of retrabing. Farewell, 
y -- f 'tin i ^ \, j^', 
As there was no Name at the bottom, of this Letter, the Light I had form’d of this Amour, did not appear conspicuous enough to make me as yet six it: Biit however, I remain’d speechless, for Some time, and was as much struck by it, as if Thunder had fallen at my Feet. How unfortunate am 1! (said I to myself, being Somewhat reeovex’d from my Surprise) 
trt 
$ 
to have confided ina faithless Creatufd 
I 
that betrays me So basely. Having coril pos’d my fels a little, and being resoiv’d to know the uimoft extent of my Misfortune, I privately fearcht the Cabinet, wherein I found th tee other Letters written to the Said Young Lord, and which 1 beseech you, Sir, to read, the first of which Letters being as followeth. 
V ' 
To the Noble Lord, the Lord ^ My Lord, 
I Should write oiiner t(pyou^ my Lord if the Opportunities of doing it were more frequent ^ I can no longer live contented But by you : All my Happiness centres in youy and I love you more than my self Toucan no longer be ignorant of my Pendernefe towards you, Tou have often beheld my Sufferings of wlokh 'my Sighs Pave heeji undeniable Proofs, Be not furprits, dat my discovering ?ny Sentiments to y ou, Tou have charmed me, more than all .Mankind besides, so that I the niofl pajjionate of all tv'omefi, Hitherto I loovd upon Love as a Chimaera, and, fis you that have submitted me to his Empire, Do not wonder at my having Wd so long in this Ignb ^' 
F ranees 
m 
( 40) 
?aiic&. Blit four Eyes vrhofg Darts are 
so piercings have penetrated into my very Soul, I am henceforward Molly yours aid am no longer my own. I call you Daf and plighti expeei you I long for you., I only think on you *, and your Idea is foie Fojfejfor of my Mind, I have promised you all'., for yd.u only have gained an abfe lute Power over me, Confides then, what you intend todo ^ and whether it be not better to five one who adores you, than' to kill her who only lives for you, 1 ex -- peb by your Answer, the entire decision of my Fate, Let the Strokes of your Writing be as piercing as those of your Eyes, If. they are, I fall live the happiest arid mtf contented of Womankind y otherwise youf Denial will kill with Grief, 
Yours. ‘ — - 
4- 
, 
¥ 
The Second runs thus % 
My Eordj 
f wijb you all the isappinefs and prhjpe rity imaginable, for the Kindness ydut have done me *, your Letter has been weii and faithfully delivered, the Seal unaltered, and you may ref contented as to that, I can affut e y Quali at lhave often interrupted 
the 
C 4*) 
the reading of It y to kifs it *, not that it is Zoo favourable for me., but because that whatever comes from you, is extremely dear to me, Tou ironically desire, that we should cease loving one another: .^ and to justify your desire of eztinguijhing the Fire, which has kindled it self in your Heart, you allege the Example of several who have been deceived. But you do it with so much Eloquence,, that I am at a loss to know which of the two were easier, to forget you, or to cease admiring your Wit, Teach me, if you can, the Secret of driving you out of my Heart, at the same Moment that I dijcover so many new Charms. Had you been refolded to Icjfen my Pafiion, you should not have written with so much Wit as you have done. This is called kindling the Fire that one would extinguijh, J have already often told you, that I am so entirely yours, that it is impqffible for me ever to be otherwise. Pity me, then, in fiead of disputing it, and let your Sentiments he conformable to mine. If you punish her that loves you, how would you use those that jljould injure you. Proceed without Despair, and do me the favour to let me know, that I am dear to you, and that you will no longer be cruel. 
Toms, dcco 
‘ ‘ This 
> 
C 4^) 
This Letter, which I found to be of the same kind, as the proceeding, convinc’d me that the Intrigue was fixm. I found that the Intelligence was reciprocal, and that Madam, my Spoiife, and her Gallant, were in a fair Way. ^ But to be better fatisfy’d, I open’d the third Letter, which was in the following Terms. 
V 
To the accomplijed Lord - — - 
My Lord, 
Joy I have received hyyour Let i £ ter, is too great to he exprefsa. It is true, that the only thing that could any ways dimmijh it, Should he the Doubt you 
express of my not loving you, -- -- -- -- Tonne 
owe me a Reparation for that Ijijury : Since I can protefi to you, that th. there, are several Per sins that cherijh you, their stane ■ not comparable to mine. Alter your o pinion, then, I beseech you, and tell me 'mo more, that I take a great deal of pains in vain. If you continue in this Strain, J can affureyou, thett you will kill, at once, the tnoji faithful of Lovers,, and the 'most fine ere of all your Friends, Tour Rigours pill he much more capable of giving ms poath^ than the S'tpords of my greauft 
nernies^ 
7 t : C '., 
4 ' % 
« 
( 43) 
fi^mies, I desire hut one thing moro of you which isto have some Senjthility a?td Acknowledgment for the Tenderness I have for you. Tell me only., I Jove you ^ and by that Declaration which will only cof you three Words, you will make me the. happie/i Woman living. I always wear your Ring, and kifs it incessantly farewel 
I 
I 
The reading of these three Tetters was, ' to me, like fb many Darts, which pierc’d my Heart. They inform’d me, or at least, I So persuaded myself, that my Lady grew weary of me, that I was become indifferent to her, and that Some body had stolen her Affections from me. As I lov’d my spouse infinitely, I could not refied on this Loss, without mortal Grief: And in the Design I form’d of regaining her, I resolv’d to let her know cunningly*, that I was not Ignorant of her Intrigues. 
In order to which, I expected some Opportunity should offer it self but it happen’d otherwise: She had been So vigilant as to know my measures, and was refolv’d to complain first, and that iri the most provoking manner, by endeavouring to turn the Tables upon a Husband, that had too great a Regard for her 
Charms, as to 1st another Rival her Bed. 
And 
V .'. 
L 
f 
( 44) 
And here a fiivourablc Junsturc occur, 
though it cost her dear: And thus it happen’d ^ which that I may not vary from Matters of, take in her own Weirds, as she related it to a faithful Niece of mine, who told it me Verbatim afterwards. 
"A N D, now,, my Dear, Niece, Said she, ^ .l to Satisfy you further of that Di ‘ stance between me and my Husband 
* must know, that my brother in ‘ Law, and Some other Relations, came ^ to Visit u5, about that time, whom we 
* entertain’d very Splendidly: But, as J ^ could not fit altogether easy under my ‘ husband’s Suspicions, he perceiv’d, that ^ Afliidion had oyer whelm’d me, and ^ one Day as we sat at Table, Said ^ to me, Permit me, dear Sister, to ask ^ reason of your appearing So Sad. J ® believe, however, that you are very ® glad to see us, and I take too great ^ ^ share in what concerns you, not to de 
* to know what afflids youi 
* I beg your Pardon., dear Brother 
* if lam at a time when I 
* ought to be so joyful having so jufi a Cause for it as the Honour of feeingyqil 
^ But I must needs have a very great ^ Cause of Grief not to he able to over 
~ come 
fcw N > V. ^, 
r d 
(45) 
some It Hyour presence. My fifusbatid, 
® who I thought fear’d the sequel of ‘ this difcourse, would interrupt it, and ‘ thinking to do it effestually, told my 
* Brother, it is So usual a thing for my ‘ Wife to afilid: herself at the least Trifle, 
‘ that I am already altogether us’d to it: 
* So that without minding it, we will, if 
* you believe me, continue our Mirth, 
‘ and So much the worfc for her, if she ^ will not make one. 
‘ And these Words he spoke with a 
* disdainful Air, which touch’d me so 
* fenfihly, that unfortunately, for me, 
* it oblig’d me to make him this Answer 
* Suspicions are the only Cause of my 
* affuslifn *, 'tisyottr Amours with a certain 
* Coqnete.^ that disgraces us both ^ and I 
* can no longer endure., that such an incon^ 
*• fiderable Creature should easily rob 
* me of the Tenderness you owe i 
'* My Husband answer’d me by a Blow ® on the Ear.. said he, is the Coin 
* in which I was resolv’d to pay the first 
* liberty you should take of making me. ‘ those kind of Reproaches. That cruel 
‘ Blow, which stunn’d me, and bruis’d 
* all my Nose, having drawn a great deal 
* of Blood, oblig’d me to rise from Table. 
« I had lo much power over my self as 
not 
% 
» 
C 4*^) 
^ not tbanswer, for fear, of redoubling, m3 ‘ disgrace. I ran to my closet, whert ‘ the grief,. Spite, and shame of being us’t 
* thus, before persons of my Quality 
* open’d so large a Flood to my Tears ‘ that I was cover’d all over with them 
* Ail the Company were disturb’d by it: ® and my Brother who’was the cause (though 
* innocently) of that Affront, was not tc 
* be comforted. 
* He came to me, to sell me, that he 
* thought himself very unhappy to have 
* contributed to Such an Outrage. He pro ‘ tested to me, that he was mortally grie 
* ved at it and after having beg’d my Par 
* he went back to my Husband, whom 
* h found not cool yet *, and therefore, 
* not to exasperate him the more, he only 
* contented himself with saying these few ‘ Words to him. Ah my Brother., this is 
* too much. -- -- - Yes, my dear Brother, 
* repyd he., but the Occaston requir’d if. ‘ Thus Matters stood a little, till he 
* judg’d my Husband capable*of Advice, ® when he told him plainly. That he was ‘ to Blame, that tliofe Violences were 
* unbecoming his Character, and that a ® Young Lady, like me, was not to be 
* us’d so unworthily. He added. That 
* having partly been the Cause of that 
Affrohtj^ 
\ 
% 
\ 
= (47) 
■ Affront, be was nt to be Corriforted for ‘ it : and that he had been far from co 
^ ■. f • ' '■ * 
. mingto see him, had he been able to fore ‘ See that Accident. In sin, he declar’d 
‘ to hiiii, that he was resolv’d to retire the 
^ ' 
next Day - and even without takingleave ^ of him, unless he made she Reparation ‘ that very Day for the Affront he had ‘ done me. 
:.. : 'A 
‘ What you desire of nie, is So just, anf ‘ wekci my Husband that you shall be fa ‘ tisfy*d: At least it shall nbt be my faulty *■ if you be not for I engage my Word to 
* you, that I will see shy Lady to Day 
‘ and that I will omit nothing to difarsh ‘ her Anger. You restore me to Life, Said ‘ my Brother and whereas shy Wife and ‘ I have been Wittieffes to the Injury, I ‘ hope you will likewise let us be present ‘ at the Reparation. I ash So willing, re ‘ ply*d my Hidpatid, that if you desire if, ' 
* it shall be done instantly. The foonef 
* the better, said fry Brother: But Suffer ® me first to give your Lady Notice of it, 
‘ and te difpose her to'receive you;; 
‘ Husband consented to all 5 and 
* my Brothct being come to.my Ciofer^ 
* found me in an inconceivable Sadnefs^’ 
® and said to she, in order to diminish it, 
^ Bear $ijief‘jyou will niaki jour self Sicki. 
G ^ if 
(48) 
® if you abandon your, self thus to yhm 
* grief'.y and you might even offend Gody 
* in juffering it to continue too long. Tout 
* Husband ts coming to see you: He is very 
* Injury his Pajfon has dealt 
* with youy, and will excuse him self to you ‘ for it. Receive it favourably and ha 
* careful not to hinder your Recondliationy 
* by vexing loim any farther. 
‘ My Brother had hardly Spoken thus. ‘ when my Husband came into my cluser; 
* and accosted me with a pleasing Coun ‘ tenance, telling me, with that agreeable ‘ ness which is usual to him, and which he 
* can assume when ever he pleases: Well, ‘ Madam, do yau still preserve any In dig 
* against a passionate Husband, who 
* do’s but too well dcserve it? And will ‘ you not promise me, to forget what is 
* past, in favour of the Acknowledgments ‘ I have of it already? 
* I do no longer remember any things Said ‘ I', and the' Grief you express for that 
* which I have receiv*d.y is too Obliging ‘ not to make me lose the remembrance ofiu 
* If I am not yet altogether fatisffd with ‘ bothy 'tis only because my dear Brother ‘ and Siftery have beeit Witnejfes of our ‘ Difference. They have cause to complain 5 of the Manner of their receptiouyand muji 
need 
♦ 
! 
i 
( 4r) 
^ neeids dep^itt from hence eijj'attsfy*d with ^ having seen us in the Difpojidon wherein we are. 
‘ Fear nothing on that fide, said my ‘ Sister we are So well pleas’d with what ^ we See at present, that we Congratulate, ‘ with vou about it with all our Hearts. 
* That is very kind. Said I, andfineeyou are no longer Concerned, I am willing to for get all. And for iny parr, said my Hus 
‘ band, embracing me., 1, in my turn, will 
* forget all *, except the remembering, ‘ that you are the best and most generous 
* Women in the World *, and 1 wish that ‘ my Cheek may blot out the brutal blow 
* of my Hand. 
‘ And here, after Some other discourse 
* of tenderness and Reconciliation, feera ‘ ingly to the Satisfaction of all the com f pany, betook leave of me, and left me ^ to myself. 
‘ Night being come, and Supper serv’d, 
* I was Sent for to come to Table; But 
* being engag’d in writing Some Letters 
* to be Sent by an extraordinary Post that ‘ Night, I order’d one of my Gentlewo ‘ men to tell them, That I beg’d ’em to ^ excuse me for not eating with them that ^ Night. That I was oblig’d, in hasfe, ito 
■\ send Several Letters, which I pouldnot 
G 2 ^ defer 
I 
( 5°) 
f defer till another time. They fupp®4 f thus without me, and leaused Something f to be brought to me, which I did eat < in haste in my closet. 
* My Husband, perhaps, fearing I intended to write Something about our ‘ Pisterences, being, desirous to penetrate 
* into it, or even to hinder it, if it were ^ postibie, came to me that very Nighf, 
I WRS Surprised to see him: My Letters Were already dispatch’d. I was just ‘ going into Bed, when he came in, and ® one of ny Women having open’d the *• Door to him, I come, said he,, with a ® gallant Air, to look for a Refuge in ^ this Ciofet, knowing no place where I 
* could be wjth more Safety or pleasurco ^ Sir, Said \,, jou have no. cause to fear,, you ‘ are Mass everywhere. biec if you 
* Will give fne leave to dispose of my own ‘ Apartment, you mufl fufer me to enjoy ^ that Repofi which I (land in need of '^ 
and which' those Hours' allow to all the uvorhi. • \ ' ' ■ 
^ Will you turn away, aid he, your 
* Husband, who is alone, and who ex 
* to pam with you the most agree“ “Night he ever had. Tou have of 
* late made me sensible. Said I, that both my ® Bed and Ferjbn ahe things Very indiffe^ 
A ■ ^ ' ^ rent 
• » • 
^ N ■ 
4 
() 
* rent to fou *, and I would not have jou ‘ conflrain you self sofar., as to persuade ‘ me that your Mind is altepd. 
‘ However, said he it is not very ge f nerous to be cruel in your own Apart ‘ ment and to refuse a Man who che ‘ rishes and honours you. Tou flatter *■ sivy Said I, and I have such conf vindng Proofs of it, that if you prefts ‘ ?northeast never so littley I will speak more plainly ‘ to you. You will oblige me anfwepd ‘ hoy and I shall be glad to know the ‘ reasons which hinders you from allow ‘ ing me half a Bed, which, by right, I ® ought to partake with you. Mis your Indifference towards mcy and the Pajfion ^ you have for anothery reply d 1, which persuades mcy that I owe this Return ‘ of yours to Policy y and obliges me humbly to entreat you to leave me. For you can 
* no longer give me a Heart, in which I ^ placed all the happiness of my Life. And ‘ who has taken it from you ^ said my 
‘ Husband, with Some Transport. Tous 
know it better than /, Said I ^ and, after ^ what is pa fly I dare no more name the f P erf on I complain of. 
‘ For Heavens Sake, Madam, said he, ® do no longer oppose the Curiosity I have ^ of knowing the Person who has rob’d 
j 
(50 
? you of, a thing, which you look upoii? as being of Some value. Tonne are not 
* Ignorant of answer’d I * but instead ^ obliging me to pronounce an odious ‘ Varney rather deliver up to me the Per 
* that owns it. I ought to pimijb her ‘ according to her deserts, *, if you 
* refufi that Sacrifice to nicy I shall be ‘ lievcy that when you tell me, that you f love mey you add Derision to Treachery. 
‘ Now I understand you, Madam, reply‘*d f hcy I know what you mean: But I ‘ protest to you, that you wrong that 
* Innocent Maid, and that she is not So? guilty as you imagine. 
f What me ans this Letter then ^ Said I, f which being in Frenchy I read in the 
I following Words, ^ 
f To Mademoiselle- -- -- -- - beautiffi 
* Charmer of my soul ‘ • 
f My Life and Soul, 
f JS it pgjfiible for me to livcy and not 
* he always contemplating on the many 
* Charms I found in you father Eight 
* And can you forget all my ajjiduitiesy 
* and the vehement Pafiion I have for Tore. 
OK no Lovely -- -- -- Fair oncy I am in 
\ 
\ 
( 55) 
C fpyd to believe., you will compfeat those ft paucities, uncommon to one, who., mifia -- \ ken ivretch! has hitherto had nothing ‘ but Viftonary Fleafures in the State I am 
ft jn, ____ Tij therefore, 1 conjure you, to 
‘ let me see you this Eight, where one that ‘ Loves you as his Soul, will think himself * hapfiefi Man living to expire in your ^ Arms. -- -- - — 
0 
‘ And do’s not this Letter, my Lord ‘ equally prove my Misfortune, your In ‘ fidelity, aad the Crime of that.cocqufcte> ‘ These are great Words, Madam, reply’d ‘ be, but there is a mijiake, and you frigh ‘ ten your self upon Appearances. Upon ‘ Appearances! Said I, with some heat: ‘ Know, Sir, that no greater Injury can be ‘ done to me i and that nothing but the ‘ Blood of her I complain of, can be capable 
i of giving me fatisfasiion. 
‘ i then pull’d out of my Pocket another Letter which troubled me, and ha 
‘ ving read it aloud. Well, ir, Said \, will you 
‘ accuse me of wanting jufi Reasons to pu « this false One ^ And will you not own, « at leas, that I am better informed ofyour ^ Concerns, than you defir d? 
‘ My Husband finil’d at this Reproach, « and answet’d me with an Air, which 
‘ appear’d 
• ’ / 
> •, f 
^ ^r L A 
(54) 
^ : A ■ -. * ■ 
* appear’d pretty sincere to me Is this ^ ail then, Madam ^, Certainly you wrong ‘ yourself, in mistaking a, Trifie for a ^ thing of Moment. This Letter, which 
* alarms you, is only a piece of Wit 
* and you might certainly be persuaded,; 
‘ that i should have been ihofe careful 
'« *' ' • * 
‘ of It, had 1 look’d upon it as a thing 
* whereof the Expreshons had been dista ‘ ted by the Heart, or in which I had « taken any Solid pleasure. But this is « the reality of the bufiness: You know 
* that Madamblfelle Speaks and, writes « very good French, I was willing to 
. ‘ exercise my felfi and her aiso, ‘to have 
< some kind of Commerce with her in ^ that Language: And whereas nothing 
< is So proper to write to young persons ‘ of her Sex, as Gallantry, I acquainted 
* her that Monjieur our Nephew lov’d her, 
* and defir’d her to answer him, as if she. ‘ approv’d his paslion, and Had been proud ‘ of it. The poor Lady has had that Com 
* and has written to me, partly ‘ as you tran(^ate it *5 having made me ^ her Confident. 
‘ However., fa id I, this Comnierce is 
* very fufpiclous to me, I have seen several Letters that frighted me, and un, 
* derjiand Ho jojhng, when a young Maid 
w 
% 
\ 
t 
« 
‘ : C - 
‘ writes in fucb Terms to her Mafier, ahd ^ my liujhanti, 5h, Sir, plead her Caufi ‘ no longer, I beseech you, but deliver her " UK to me for my Revenge. 
‘ I should offend Justice, should 
‘ I not pfoted Innocence, This poor ‘ Lady has only fail’d in Appearance, III ^ obeying me effedively. Therefore, Ma ® daihj calm yourself; For since those 
* sort of things are displeasing to you, I ‘ will renounce them absolutely. Tou will ‘ oblige me. Said I ^ and feeing that t 
* could obtain no more from him, I told ‘ him that it was very late, and that the ‘ number of my jiifpatches had wearyed 
‘ me, and therefore cenjupd him by his ab,, 
‘ to allow me some rest. But why 
‘ Madam, said he, will you refuse me ‘ the Favour I desire ^ what hinders ‘ you from granting me a Night, in which, 
I propose So much pleasure to my sell 
. ‘ When I had the Felicity of being uni -‘ ted to your Ladyjhip, Said I, by the sacred 
* of Marriage, I acknowledge you as ‘ rny Mailer, and engaged my self to obey ^ you. But, continu’d 1 weeping, 
‘ would you always give me a divided ‘ Hearth And can you without regret, 
^ prefer a Rival, who do's not love you so 
* much as I do ^ And who may, without 
H ^ wronaing 
‘ wronging her self, yield to tne in eiter ‘ thing elfe, 
‘ I tell you Madam, addfd he., tha ‘ your Suspicions magnisy Objects ^ ‘ that the phantasni that troubles you, i ^ the cffed of a deceiv’d Imagination. Bu ^ let us make Peace, and do not refuse aii 
* the Rights of a Husband, which I de ‘ fire of you. I expfess’d my consent, b3 ^ an Obeisance, *, causing him ‘ Self to be undrefs’d, we lay together ** and were entirely rcconcird. Fie pro ‘ tested to me a thousand times, that thi ‘ Commerce of Letters was innocent ^ that Mademoiselle w^s Virtuous ant ‘ that he had rather dye, than violate ^ the Fidelity he had Sworn to me. 
‘ I answe/d, asl I ought, to those kint ‘ and Satisfying Exprestions'. I told hin ‘ that 1 was very well fatisfy’d ^ andwi ‘ rose the next Morning, at least on m3 ‘ part, with a firm resolution of living ^ for the future, in a perfect Intelligence ‘ I relish’dj'for Some Days, the pieasur ^ of being reconciled to what one loves but that pleasure was not lasting. Th( ‘ dvmtiw, who delights inruining the bef ‘ Union, came to trouble ours, and die 
‘ it ih a'lnumer, that has been made to( 
* public 1 am alraid. ’ 
*' Thu 
/ 
9 
% 
( ?i7) 
Thus, Sir, you may perceive that I deal Tairly with your Lordship, *, you will, more confpicuoufiy See, that these are all Forgeries of your Daughter, proceeding from her own Guilt, when, after having • repeated So many Fallities *, for, ’tis pi lin, that the Young Lady She there pretends to Say was my Mistress, had not been in the Family, for six Months before the Tirrie of her forging the Letter your unhappy Daughter insinuates I writ to her. 
Nay, Madam, the M -- -- -- -- -- s of -- -- -- - cm 
witness for her, who is her Aunt, that she was all that Time, during this fictitious Plan was forming, at one of your coun itry Seats, 15 Leagues from the Capital of these Territories, and where I never was but once, and that Some Years (ince. 
But there will need no farther Apology •for ray own Conduct in this Affair *, when, after having had Several Children, by Ma ^ ^ your Daughter, whom I lovm in; tirely, the World, with your Lordship, will be persuaded to my fide, when t come to tell you, what ray own Eyes were witness to; and which, if well weigh’d, will strike with Amazement the inquisitive World. — — And thus it comes on. 
There was an Appointment made in 
my Family, to go and Spend the suoime r, 
H 2 at 
/ 
I 
% 
/ 
( 58) 
at the pleasant Town of L— — which i agreed, and went thither, with tny Spouse and a Splendid Retinue: where I met with ^ great Concourse of Persons of Distinction; the most eminent of which, 1 invl ted one Day, to a costly Entertainment; but I had very much reason 10 Repent of this Treat, not So much for the Profuseness of it, but for the Affront my Spoufc put upon me, in the presence of them all. As 
ike was very richly dress’d, (perhaps, 
with more Gaiety, than usually becomes a Mother of Children I chanced to lay my Hand on her naked Bosom, for which, file gave me Such a disdainful Look, accompanied with Such haughty Exprestions, shat the Company could not but observe, by my Looks, but that my Refenrments 
were proportional to the Affront. 
But this is a trivial Matter: I stiall not conceal the most Important from you : — ^ i had not fhar’d above half the summer’s Diversion at this fine Place, but my bust call’d me home. ’twas my inclina sion the whole Family should do the like s But, Madam, your Daughter, was pleas’d so take the Freedom to stay there Ibme Time after me. She knew that it would not please me. And, iiideed, She behav’d berfeif in so high a manner, that I was i.. pity’d 
\ 
( 59) 
% 
pitym by all those who knew the Sequel 'of our Differences. 
However, having altnoft Spent the Summer, after Several Orders for her to comfe Home. — - She Sent me Answers in fudi a Strain, that they were the naoft provoking that could come from a Wife, — One 
was, Thdt fie was not jo indifcreety hut [be. tould tell when her Ajfairs reauipd her. Another, That [he knew well enough what Felkity wasy lime [he had no Controller at her Count 
trj setttri A Third, That [he knew Titm was flitting and that fie was not so had a f egifler^ but ah at fie could tell how long the 
Season would permit her to Jlay : -- -- -- With 
other like undutiful Expreilions, not fiu ting for a Husband to bear. -- -- -- -- 
Upon this, I Sent my positive Commands 
for her to return in a fix’d Time; and, that 1 might not slight Some private Intelligence I had gain’d from one, who was always near her, I went Incognito, to observe her Behaviour: - — — And here, with Grief, Horror, and Shame, my Lord, I come to draw the fatal Scene! Be it known to you, therefore, that having Intelligence, that she had admitted into her Chamber, a Stranger, I had no longer Patience, but, fir’d With Resentment, I took two of my Domefticksj and, bursting open the Door, 
rush’d 
% 
I 
► 
* 
( go) 
in upon her, when I found them 0ttirig together, with a familiarity no way agreeable to any but .Husband and 
p/ik. \ ^ ■ 
Here Patience, immediately took its flight, and abandon’d me to the most aggravated Paflian a Man coiild bear; and to act as Rage and Fury prompted me: ^ So that having a Pistol in my Hand, I 
flr’d it at the Author of my Misfortunes, fast as he was leaping into a Mote which surrounded the house. 
Whether or no, the Pistol did any Execution, I cannot as yet tell; but true it is, the Ravisher has never been heard of fincei And, now my Lord, does not this fata! Intrigue merit the highest Resentment? Certainly, you will not Blame me, that, after this Action, I gave Orders that your Daughter Should be confin’d to her Chamber, W'irh a Maid or two, and that all my Servants, (hold stridly watch her Apart 
inents, ’till I knew your lordfbip’s Pleasure. 

’ But, my Lord, my Spouse having now dine to recriminate her false Conduct, and finding herself So narrowly obferv’d, that tier Spies were uneasy to her She wrote the following Letter. 
■■ - V Sir, 
4 
( di) 
SIR, 
lam so much troubled by the mtt»y Ohfervator^ 
•*- about my Chamber Door Day and Nighty that I cannot fufficitntiy express to you th Anguijb it puts me in. The noise they makeif frightens msy anti my Captivity becomes every Moment mote injupportable. Permit me Sir to entreat you to behave your self towards me in d manner that may be approv*dof as a ten dernefs to my Sex : And give me leave to tell you that there is no need of f lacing so many Spies about a Woman,, that has nothing but her Tears and Innocence to oppose them. / say particularly, my Innocence, because that after having examined my self welland eawd to mind my condufi, and my whole Life, 1 can find nothing in either, wherein I could have intended to offend my Husband, 
Therefore / conjure you, by all thaps Good and by that Tenderness you formerly had for me, to refiore me to my Liberty. If I am Guilty, tis fit I fljould be fumjed : But if I am Innocent, let me enjoy the Privileages due to a Wife. I desire a fair hearing, and that I may he allowed to uje thofie Means that may tend to nsy fujhficatton. id.mfo firangely diftured by the Noise of those you have jet over me, 
that ever Jince they have changed my Clojet 
9 
n 
( 62) 
hto a frifon^ 1 have not been able to take any Refi, ' Be pleased to order them to retire '^ for if you will needs have me ebferv*d, three, or four will he as effe^hial as so many. / am in a place where you are absolute Mafler ^ and you have no cause to fear an Efcafe^ where jots 
Command so fipibly, 1 am 
i ‘ 
> * s .(.. » • • 
Your disconsolate Wife, and yeur 
most humble and most 
\ 
t 
obedient Servant, — i? 
% ’ 4 
t ^ 5’ • \ ** - 
i <*,. • 
This Letter was deliver’d to me as I was at Table. When I open’d it at first sight, and having read it, order’d all Should be difmist but three or four, and thoseto makeas little Disturbance as could be. The Order was immediately put in Execution; and as fhet was rejoyeing at the good Ested her Letter had produc’dy She receiv’d the following Answer I writ to her. 
« 
Madam; 
1 
“7 Am much farpritad at your seeming to bt ^ Ignorant of the Cause of your Confnementk Therefore you Accuse me of Injuficef and insinuate 

9 
# 
(^3) 
that 1 prfecute Innocence in pup erf bn. Howeverit is not possible for, oth to have so soon forgotten the affront at H — n, when I ordepd yott to follow me and erdepd it in such i manner as fbeipd I would he ohefd, Notwithjlanding which you not only difohef d me but remained there feverd Weeks where you [pent an eacffive dr<d of Money, without considering that our Efiatt and Effefls being already but too much dreirf*d^ had no need of fuah Profufons. I have besides another Suhje^ of Complaint which you cannot plead Ignorance to. Remember then the Affront which you put upon me before all my Friends the day of the Idjf Feaji, Tou appeared there in an extraordimry Pomf hud magnificed.ee; t: nd • were not only glord. oufly attyr^d, but even [hetpdyour Neck with as much affiliation as the mojl Public Coquet could do. 1 imagined 1 fhcmld have obliffd you, in putting my Hand upon that part of your Body which was so bare 1 mean your Breast. But I was ed.tread.ly furpriad at jour haught) Rtbuke, Tou behaipd your self towards meas if I had been d Stranger to wie: And. you declapd before all those Gentlemen, that in a little time you would hot allow me any of those Favours which Marriage authorises, and which you had ho Right to refuse me. Refill, ?noreover, Upon the Adventures of your Return, and you will bi 'ohliffd t acknowledge, that my Behaviour 
( >4) 
towards you it very 'ittift. Partuuhrly fime mf 
Discovery of that moftahomin&ble Amour .fathich must for ever stop your Mouth, ^ ‘and make you think It no hardjbip if 1 Should find cut an expe diintin order to our divorce.this is the Reafas that induced me to confine jour ferfon^ as well to hinder your Amours as to fat isfy my just Re -- venge. Therefore if you will follow my Advice resolve to he cdm^ and to dcmiefce to the Circumstances you are in. Which if you do perhaps an Expedient may he found out, C after having sir ft Writ to your Fat herj whereby you fisalt not only he fet at Liberty, hut that I will, he fide s, allow lyou a Fenfion, fit to maintain f one of your Rank. I expefi your I aft Refo» 
iution, and dm your ahufed Husband, See. 
After the reading of this Surprising ' Letter, I was told, that She flung herfeis on the Bed, and remain’d for sometime more dead than alive; not knowing what to resolve upon.' She Saw herself in the Hands of an angry Husband, who had Hr an abfplute Power over her : And had no 
body to advise or comfort her. never theiefs fqmething was to bs refolv’d upon Hb and a positive Answer to be given; and 
believing, I expected it with Impatience ^ IP She Sent one of her Maids to me, to tell 
B I me. That jbe neither was in & Condition, nor Hn had the Will, t or eft ft me; That jbe juhmit 
ted to dl excepting the conjenting to a Di 
voroeyahst it was a'cafe of 
\ 
* > 
whiceought mt to be decided so ' lightly, That if howeverj I was so much bent ufon it that nothing could ptevail to the contrary / even in that Cafe receive Satisfablion^ since (be found her self very much inclined to refuse me nothing, • ’ 
This Maid, who lov’d her, perform’d her Errand faithfully; and I was so ex treamly pleas’d with her Message, that I bid her hasten to test her, That she cannot pitch upon anything better than com plaifance: And that in order to begin my Acknowledgement of it, I am going to put her more at Liberty. She may walk in the Gardens: And as to the Scruple she exprestes about a Divorce, tell her She need not have any, and that 1 take ali the ill She might fear upon myself. Above all, advise her not to write anything to her Relationsjabout i ’till 1 have receiv’d an Answer from the most indulgent Lord her Father, but let her behave hefelf so, as not to give me cause to repent the good Treatment I defign’d her. 
She did not expect the Effect of my promise long, that very Evening She went burr, and took the Benefit of the Air; and stnce that time, has had more Liberty than any one, (forty for the Crimes Shb stands charg’d withal, j would destre. 
^ And thus, my dear Lord, and Father, 
you have read the iniuriecl have receiv’d. 
\ - i » ^ r <. f. V 
*. ' ^ 
• • 
'. >' ■■ ' from one whom my Bosom has niirsm 
with the most cherishing Fidelity and 
Tenderness— — -- -- to Heaven I 
could for ever obliterate the Remembrance 
'of those unhappy Tranfgrestions out of 
my Mind, provided a sincere Cpotrition 
and Repentance might accompany her 
Serious Consideration of the heinoufness 
of them. -- -- - 
Sure, I am, that for the sake of my dear Children, I should have Some Regard 
for the Womb that bare them: And with 
'
the like Confidence do I believe, your M paternal Care for her Spiritual Welfare, ^ will recommend to her with all the force K and Energy of Words, the Authority of 
a Parent, has a Right to inculcate such wholesome Admonitions, as may put her iri upon a Speedy and strict e^men of her mif / conduct, as may have a Way for Some 
Seeming Coshpenfationi 
And now, my Lord, having tirm your HB Lordship with what can no way s be grate, L lul to a Virtuous Mind, ’tis high time I 
put a Period to So Melancholy a Subiect; ■ and which shall be concluded with my fubmifiive Expectations of those feasona blc Cpmmands you will be pleas’d to lay ^ me under, as to my future Coodud in fb 0 nice an Affair. I am mv Lord, with 
, N.. - ^ * 
Vinfinite submission, your afflicted Son, and 
most hfimble Servant 
