•*
THE
OLD MAID;
OR,
HISTORY
OF
Miss RAVENSWORTH.
I N A
f «
SERIES OF LETTERS.
- '
.... ■ ■ ' ..■ ■■ !■.. ■■■!«> .y
By Mrs. SKINN,
Late Miss Masterman, of York.
— ■■■ ...... I ..... ■■■■ ipn
If any here chance to behold himself
Let him not dare to challenge me of wrong;
»
For if he shame to have his follies known.
First he flrou’d shame to act ’em*
wp — ■ f I i — i— — — — —
IN THREE VOLUMES. VOLUME THE FIRST.
» ’ W • ‘
» •
— - - - -- - - ■ - ■ ■ ' -■ ' ' ^
'.
LONDON, T
fi J
Printed for J. Bell, at his Circulating library;, near Exeter exchange, in the Strand; and C Etherington, at York.
MDCCLXXI.
f
• •
/
• ^ n “-- * - -- — - — — - -*'■ ...........'^1 ■ ■
^mmmmmmtmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm^mmmmmrn^iti...' n ■■i*iiim»i i iii laf
.: : -■■ - • / •
<
THE
/
HISTORY
O F

• «
t
..... -- Mi- -- -- -
E T T E R I.
Miss Henrietta Seagrove,
To miss Charlotte Danby.
OH! my dear Charlotte, I have
actually Sound out the reason of my father’s So unaccountably removing me from London at this dead time of the
year to Mr. ravensworth’s. He was apprized of my engagements to Captain
Voi, I, B Crosby,
«
2
grosby, and is determined to oppose them; but how, he is come to the knowledge of these circumstances, I own surprises me not a little; this is the con fcquence of disobedience: but Such a man! oh! Charlotte, who could resist him. He is in every respect; an equal match for me, only, the unfortunate disagreement between the families, makes my father So much against it.
I hoped, that time would bring about a reconciliation, for indeed I never intended to marry without the consent of my worthy parents; but now I have everything to fear. Tell Captain Crosby, however, where I am, (for you know they did not give me time before I left London) and tell him, that tho’ they may feinder me from being his, they shall never force me to give either my hand or heart to another. To see him is impossible, I So ciosely watcned, that 1 cannot stir Without Some of the famrly to attend me.
3 Th'
V
MISS RAVENSW(DRTH. 3
Though' they pretcnd it Is out of mere civility, yet I too plainly See the motives of Such uncoinmon Complaisance. Yoa will, perhaps, wonder how in Such a family, and So remote a place, I come to the knowledge of these events : T will proceed to give you an account of the whole affair, exactly as it happened. — I believe you was present when my papa told me, that an old friend of his had So strenuously desired my company for a Sew months at H...., that he knew my Serious turn, and that I was not much attached to the pleasures of the town, he could not with any degree of propriety refuse him.
As I had often heard him talk of Mr. Ravensworth, and knew they were upon a visit at our house, when I was with you and your good aunt at Y..., I could not, indeed, I durst not Say anything against it, as you know how posttive
I
my papa is when he. is once thoroughly
B 2 determined.
4 1 rlji nibluky UT
determined. That night, I took leave of you, but had not an opportunity of Ipeaking to you alone, and the next day about noon brought me to this venerable manston, which indeed is a very plea sant one.
f
I was politely received by the whole family; which consifts of Mr. Ravensworth, a very well looking old gentleman, about sixty; his wife, a lady of near the Same age; their daughter, an old maid about Sorty, and their granddaughter, a pretty young girl about Sixteen; but perhaps, a Set of more different characters never yet existed together in one family, which is the cause of perpetual unealinefs among them.
The old gentleman, is both covetous and passionate to an amazing degree: all his ideas of happiness centering in money; and as he is very rich, one might naturally fuppose him to be possessed of that blessing, which So many Seek after in
vain;

vain; but on the contrary, the continual Sear he is in of diminishing his fortune; and the agonies he Seels for every sar thing which is expended in the house, render him more truly wretched than the beggar who Seeks his living from door to door. Mrs. Ravensworth is a most worthy and benevolent woman; generous where she sees a real object: of charity, and possessed of a most excellent heart, but tinctured with a little pride, which to a stranger is rather disgusiing, but when one becomes acquainted with her, she really appears and is perfectly amiable; she dotes upon her granddaughter almost to a fault. — Miss Martha, her daughter, is the picture of ill nature and envy, and is indeed (as Emily says) in every sense of the word, an Old Maid: she most heartily hates her pretty niece, who is really handsome, genteel and fensible, but from too great indulgence has many faults, which, tho’ one cannot help think
B 3 ing
6
’ t
ing Such, she turns off in a manner so peculiar to hersclf, that it is difficult to be offended at them; among these, an uncommon share of levity is not the least; but more years and experience, will I doubt not make her a most amiable
wa - -
woman, as she is really mistress of a good understandings and a great share of good nature.
After having paid me the usual com pliinents at coming in, Mr. ravens worth retired into his study, and left me in cornpany with the ladies; Mrs, Ravensworth (after having recommended it to the young ladies to entertain me) took a book and began to read, as she is Seldom without one in her hand, except by candlelight, when the Samily begin, to be a little more Social, and Miss Martha, who is an eternal workwoman, and. makes it a rule never to comply with any one request her mamma makes her, applied herself more closely than ever to
her
  >
her needle, and Sat without once attempting to begin any kind of conversation. — Miss Emily, who had been at work, but left off at my entrance. Sat likewise without Speaking; So that you may imagine I was among strangers rather awkwardly sttuated: after about an hour’s silence, which was only interrupted by Emilv now and then ashing, if I had a pleasant journey? if the roads were good? and' so forth, she, poor thing, as much upon' the fidgets as myself, cried out at lastj Aunt Patty, is it agreeable for you to take a' walk, and show Miss Seagrove the garden; if not, I will, or elfe she may stand Some chance of being in the vapours, if she is entertained in this agreeable manner much longer. This was only answered by miss patty’s turning her head, with a look of contempt: You, my dear, who have nothing to do, should, I think, endeavour to amuse the lady as much as you can; you can show her the garden,
B 4 and
#
%
and as I arn busy, she will be kind enough to excuse me. I bowed my assent; and the lively Emily replied with a Saucy Smile; don’t mind her, Miss Seagrove,
t
she is an old Maid you know, and poor things they all have their humours : come ma’am, if it’s agreeable, I will attend you, and as it is Aunt patty’s request:, do the best I can to amuse you.
When we got into the garden. Miss Emily Said, Indeed, my dear Miss Seagrove, happy as I must think myself in your company, I cannot but be Sorry you are come to be buried in So lonely a place; especially, as you Seem not to be possessed of those kind of Spirits, which are necessary for those who would enjoy the country; for my own part, I am now So used to it, that I prefer this place infinitely besore London; and when our family go to town, always make it my
request to be left here : but, I have a slow
\
of Spirits which make me happy anywhere,

\
  ^
where, and I never meet with any interruption to them, but when I See others labour under a dejection, it is not in my power to relieve : So Saying, she fixed her eyes upon me, with a kind of expressive Sweetness, which I was then at a loss to know the meaning of.
The ringing of the dinner bell gave us no further opportunity for conversation; during the whole time, my heart was So full, I was unable to eat a mor sel, and when it was over, on pretence of indisposition, I begged leave to retire to my apartment.
I had not been there long, when I heard a gentle tap at the door. It was Emily; Seeing my eyes red with crying, she Sat down by me, and taking hold of my hand. Said, “Miss Seagrove, you ‘‘ don’t, I Sec, think me worthy of your confidence; if you did, it is perhaps in my power to relieve you : I own, O' from our short acquaintance, I am not
“entitled
Id
“entitled to it, and yet is you knew the interest I take in everything that con cerns you, you would not be So much “upon the reserve. I know, perhaps, ‘‘ more of your affairs, than you are willing to acquaint me with; do tell “me if I can be of any Service to you;
I cannot bear to See you So distressed.”
i
During this Speech the tears stood trembling in her eyes, I could not longer doubt either her good nature or stneerity;. but Some part of what stie Said staggered me a good deal; what affairs of mine could shte be acquainted with?
She did not keep me long in fuspence, but told me what I have already mentioned to you, and the strict charge there was laid on the whole family to have a watch over me. I was now, if possible, more wretched than ever; and were it not for this Sweet girl, I should not even have it in my power to difciose the agonies of my heart
to
  M
to my dear Sympathising Charlotte; shie undertakes the charge of this,, and you must direct your answer under' cover to her.
Amiable as she is, her vivacity really is almost too much for me. Sometimes, (though in the main, it is perhaps of Service to me) she will be my bedfellow, and it Seems, as she in general chooses to lay alone, I was to have half of miss patty’s bed : there has been a curious dispute about it this afternoon. i’ll assure you, says Emilv;, Aunt Patty, you are not to have the honour of Miss seagrove’s company for a bedfellow tonight. I have given her
an invitation to lay with me. Indeed, Emily, Says Mrs. Ravensworth, you are a most whimsscal girl; Sometimes, when we have been So full of company, as to be forced to get beds out of the house, you would not So much as lay with your Aunt Patty, to make room; and now, that there is no kind of necessity, you
choose
12
«
choose to take this young lady, who upon the whole, will be much better disposed of with your Aunt, as you are Such a troublesome girl, that she can have no rest with you. Why lord, now grandmama, do you stncerely think that Aunt Patty is a better bedfellow than me; why, she is So troublesome in her sleep, shie would disturb miss Seagrove all the night.
miss pat’s brown complexion, began now to betray a Small tincture of the rouge; when, Mr. Ravensworth Said, with a Severe look. Upon my word, Emily, you are extremely pert to your Aunt. Pert, replied miss Pat, I am Sure if I had been So Saucy at her age, I should have been turned out of the room.
Why lord, miss Patty, Says Emily, if you don’t like the room, you may leave it, for I know no one here that wants your company; these old maids are really So peevish. Indeed, Sir, you should have got my Aunt a husband before now.
I will
%
ivi 1 o o IV r, IN o vv is. 1 n. 15
I will recommend to her my antiquated lover, Mr. Harding; don’t you think he will Suit her exactly. Indeed, emilyj Said Mr. Ravensworth, I don’t allow
T.
you to take these liberties. Your allowances to me, Sir, have always been very Small; but those things you don’t allow
I am forced to take. So you know in the
%
end it comes to the same thing. Upon my word, Emily, you are insufferable;
my dear, (to Mrs. R.) why don’t you
«
Speak to her? Nay, my dear. Says she,
I have nothing to do with it; she never Speaks in that style to me: you should not contradict her; you know I never do.
This indeed is Mrs. ravensworth’s greatest foible; Sori believe it really impossible for her to find the Smallest fault in her accomplished Emily. Upon my word, says the wild girl, here is a mighty edifying conversation about my faults, you really might choose a more entertaining
Subject;
4
1 ^ X XX Ju4 XX L O X vy XV X kj J
Subject; I don’t think I have one in the World: how can you endeavour to find out those things which don’t exist i Lord, grandpapa, you should go to your study and mind your books; what Signifies coming here to intersere between me and Aunt Patty : you know, if it was not for me fhe’d die of the vapours.
Mr. Ravensworth, turning up his eyes. Said, It is impossible, however, I find ever to work a resormation in you; and left the room. It is indeed. char totte, next to an impossibility to make her Serious.
miss Patty Says, Indeed, Emilv, if
you don’t behave yourself rather better; I shall be obliged to quit the house, for Fm determined not to live under the same roos with you. Oh! my Sweet Aunt Patty, I shall positively die if I lose your amiable company; don’t think of
leaving us, arid I won’t remind you of
leading
  leading apes for at least this week to
come.
At this Speech, miss Patty out of all patience, rose up to quit the room : and when she was gone, Mrs. Ravensworth with great Sweetness, gave Emilt a gentle reprimand for the freedom Ihe took with her aunt and grandfather; and she, who is equally fond of her grandmother, as the old lady can be of her, assured her, that she would cut out her tongue Sooner than offend her; but from the little I know of her, will be again led by a too great vivacity and petulance of dispohtion into the Same error, the very first opportunity. However,, we met again in the evening ail good friends; and after Supper, Emily, ever mistress here, led me
I
to her bedchamber, where I fit to write you this. She is continually pulling me by the sseeve, and yawning. When will this eternal Scribbler give over; lord, child, if you was to write me Such letters, I
should
16
should absolutely burn them besore I had got half through’em, though', my dear hen rjetta, I don’t in the least doubt the cleverness of your style, yet believe me, I would not be bound to read Such a quantity of letter writing for the world.
Indeed, Charlotte, though I have a hundred more things to Say, she teizes me So, that it is impossible to proceed.
With the most affectionate love then to your ever valuable aunt, and the most ardent wishes for your welfare and happiness, .believe me, ^
/
Dear Charlotte,
Your affectionate friend,
♦
- 4
Henrietta Seagrove,
> ... i *
1 ' ^
%
#
I >
%
. mis Ravensworth. 17
..
t
LETTER II
Miss Charlotte Daney,
To Mi Ss Henrietta Seagrove.
I Received yours, my dear Henrietta, and Sorry as I am for the loss of ' your amiable company, I Sincerely rejoice
V
that you have in your Solitude got So agreeable a companion, as you describe your Emily.
I have Seen Captain Crosby, my dear; and communicated to him the contents of your letter. His countenance underwent Several changes during the course of my narrative.
When I first told him you was gone, he upbraided you in the Severest terms for your Cruelty, in neither writing to him, nor Seeing him before you went; but when I came to read your letter, he could hardly restrain his tears; and had it not been
for the account of your friend Emily, Voti, C (on
is THE HISTORY OR
* ■. i
(on whom, I will assure you, he has great dependanee) I really believe he would (like a true knight errant) have come and stormed the enchanted castle, and Set the distressed damsel at liberty, in Spite of all the formidable genuiffes, that might have opposed him.
Really, Henny, after all, ’tis a great comfort to have an amiable young fellow dying for one; could not you pick out a Sighing Swain in your part of the country to recommend to me? Indeed if I had Such a pretty Sellow as this Same Captain Crosby, as much in love with me as he is with a certain person of my acquaintance, who shall be nameless, I believe I should be strongly tempted to take a journey northwards with him, even though I was forced to jump into his arnas from a two pair of stairs window.
'My aunt says, she was Sormerly acquainted with Mrs. Ravensworth, of whom indeed she gives an excellent cha'
♦
MISS ravel^sworfh. r
Sacter; and Says she wm contrive to pay her a visit ere long; when I shall once more have the iplcafure of converfing with iny dear Henrietta.
« s
Indeed, Henny, we have ever from our infancy been Such a pair of inseparames, that it appears to me a year since I parted with youj though in fact: I believe it is
not quite a week. Mrs. Hannah Ris
%
my aunt’s old maiden housekeeper, commiserates your case a good deah She Says, when she was young, they hindered her of the man of her choice, and she has lived a maiden for his sake ever since.
She is a worthy Woman you know, and has formerly kft'own better days; but in her way, is as great a character as any in the ravenswoiith shmily. She faysj,
she thinks it is a great pity tho’, that So Sweet a young lady as Miss Henrietta sea’grove, should fix her affections upon an officer, for to be certain, in the geiie^
Q 2 rality
m
io
rality they are vile rogues the very best of them.
Yesterday your papa and mama Spent the afternoon with us. My aunt ashed them, if they did not think your time would pafs rather dull in the country, at this time of the yearthey answered, Mr, 'ravensworth’s was a most agreeable family, and you could not fail of being quite happy there.
As they Seemed not to choose to Say any more upon the Subject:, my aunt could press it no Sarther, otherwise could she have brought them to have owned the true caiise of sending you away, she would, I, am Sure, have been a strenuous advocate in your favour; and as Mrs. Seagrove has a very high opinion of her understanding, I don’t despair, but when they both get togesher, without Such impertinent witnesses as your papa and humble Servant, ifwill be in Mrs. danby’spower to make a change for the better.
3 I must
\
  at
I must leave off, ihy dear; two gentlemen below; who can they be? My aunt orders I stiall go down directly: when I have dispatched them, I will resume my pen,
# # # #
Oh! Henny, ’twas Captain Crosby,
and with him a young gentleman just come from abroad. And what gentleman do you think it was, my dear.? Such a
figure! don’t laugh at me, Henny, for he really is the Sweetest Sellow I ever Saw in my life; Such a pair of fine black eyes! But what have I to do with his eyes? Indeed, my dear, he is most inimitably hand some. After all, who do you think it was — shall I tell? — No. — I think I will keep you in fuspence a little longer. Poor Captain Crosby, I am afraid, was you to see him, would meet a dangerous rival; and see him you certainly, will, and that very shortly. — Take care of your heart, Henny : do you think Harry Crosby
C 3 will
9  -
i
will stand any chance of retaining youf affections, in the presence of the lovely
Ravensworth? for it is him, Henny,
it is. your emily’s cousin, with all her vivacity, and the finest figure' that eyes ever beheld.
I will not attempt to give you a description of him, it is impossible to do him justice; your Qwn eyes will tell you that he excels — rcven your own Harry. He left us before Captain Crosby, being engaged with some relations, to whom he was obliged to pay his duty before he lest London, for the Solitary mansion of his old grandfather, and the prison of my beloved friend.
• i,
Shall I tell you, I Saw him depart with reluctance. Pity me, my dear Henny, but I own he has rnade too deep an impression on my heart: but what does it signify, he is designed for Emily it Seems,. Captain, Crosby told me when he was
t
gone, that he had Some slight acquaintance

X t t ^
RAVENSWORTH. 2|
tance with him when abroad, and thought him a most accomplished young fellow; but not having Seen him for Some years, and their acquaintance being a very slight one, he remembered no more about him, still going into a coffeehouse this morning, he Saw a very pretty fellow, whose face he thought he knew; and hearing him called by the name of Ravensworth, it occurred to hiin, that it was the gentleman he knew at Paris, and that he might possibly be a relation to the family you was in.
Flushed with this thought, and the hopes that thro’ his means he might possibly find an opportunity of being introduced to your ladyship, he was going to address him; when the gentleman comes
up to him. Captain Crosby, how do
•* * - ^
you do? I am very glad to see you. I thought I recollected you, but could not be quite Sure, still I had inquired your name, The consequence of this was, a
C 4 renewal
*
2
renewal of their former acquaintance. They agreed to dine together; and upon Mr. ravensworth’s mentioning, hisgo t ing to H... to See his grandfather; your lover told him his whole story; acquainting him at the Same time with the friend^ ship of his lovely coustn to the amiable Henrietta,
Ravensworth has I find promised to stand his friend to the utmost of his power; and told him in confidence at the same time, that he was intended for the hushafid of Emily : he being heir, I suppose, to the estate, and Emily having a large iifdependant fortune, they are unwilling to let anything go out of the family; and by your account of the Sweet girl, and my knowledge of her amiable Cousin, they cannot fail being enamoured with each other.
Your Harry Says, his friend has no great notion of these family matches, but as he hears the girl is really amiable, if
he
 y
he likes her, he shall have no objection. He is, by all accounts, as wild as hersels; if they come together, they’ll make a strange mad couple,
Mr. Ravensworth Sets off for H... tomorrow;; lover and he are to meet this evening, to fix a plan for his introduction to your agreeable family: where that you may soon meet to your mutual Satisfaction, is the Sincere wilh of
Your affectionate
Charlotte Danby,
LETTER III
miss Seagrove to miss Danby.
Ye S, Charlotte, I have Seen this
dangerous Ravensworth; and, that he is perfectly amiable, I think is impossible to deny; but that he, or any one, should rival my Harry, is of all impossibilities the greatest.
9
Emily
%
$
Emily and I were above stairs, when he was announced to us : she started. Oh! Says she, that is my intended : I die to See what Sort of an animal it is; tho’ I post: lively won’t have him, Henny; I detest the very thoughts of Such a Sober made up match; but let us g o See the Sriffht, how
V ^ O O ^ '
ever. So Saying, down she tripped,
I followed, and we both made our appearance : he fainted us villi great polite, ness, and Said, he really did not expect at' ’ this time of the year, to have met two Such exquistte beauties mewed up in So remote a place. Oh! coustn, says Emily, ’tis on account of our uncommon beauty and accomplishments, that we choose to make ourselves Scarce : it is not every vulgar eye that ought to have the pleasure of staring at two Such angelic beings as we arc; bestdes, as we are remarkably good iiaturcd, (an uncommon appendage to beauty) believe me, we should be unwill shg to do Such infinite execution, as
would
  xf
would be unavoidable were we once ex posed to public view. There would be Such a dearth of beaus, that all our belles would in time be reduced to the uncomfortable and mortifying sttuation of my poor forlorn aunt Patty, who has beem praying for an husband any time these twenty years; and all to fodittle purpose,
I don’t believe she will ever pray again.
Indeed,, my lively cousin, were all our beaus to be in the condition you describe,
I am afraid, they would find very little; mercy from your hands, whatever they' might from' those of your lovely friend,. who, if I can read the language of though \ eyes, does not appear to be quite So hard ^ I blushed, and; looked down.
X had received your letter, Charlotte, and knew perfectly well what it was he meant. Is it a fault, my dear friend, to have a heart too susceptibie?
IS it is, it brings its fufferinss aioni>
msh it?
h y
I
I
• \
i9 ■
How happy is Emily in her insenfi bility; tho’ she as in the main a most tender heart; and I make no doubt, but one time or other she will find it capable of the most tender fensations, tho’ never, I plainly See, for her young cousin;; as he is, he will never make an impression upon her.
don’t be uneasy, Charlotte, I See plainly your heart is but too much touch ed with him; excuse me if I Speak too freely : I Sincerely wish you happy, and am Certain no man has it more in his power / to make you So than Dicky Ravensworth : Emily will have nothing to say to him, I assure you.
She has got an immense variety of lovers; but I believe they are all equally indifferent to her. There is a Mr. Harding that foilov/s her very closely; a man pretty near forty, tho’ really hand Some and agreeable; I was highly entertained
with
  if with the Sollowing conversation between
them the other clay.
After having paid her a great many fine compliments, she says to him. Now really all this is So elegant, ’tis a pity it should be thrown away; why don’t you go.and
court Aunt Patty; I am Sure she would
\
be very glad of a husband; and as you want a domestic animal, by way of wise, I think you would make a most agreeable couple.
How can you, my dear miss Ravensworth, treat me in So unkind a manner; what have I done to deserve So much of your displeasure?
Good God I Says Emily, Sure the man’s distracted. — unkindness and displeasure 1 and how can I? Why now, my Sweet dismal Swain, I think I am the kindest
* 4
creature in the world, when you are ab t Solutely dying for a wife, to find you one that Suits you So in every respect: and as for being displeased, you never was more,
mistaken
J
N
 '
imistaken in your life; as I am quite aga lighted with the thoughts of dancing al your wedding. I declare, I will stand
i _
for Aunt patty’s first child, and if it is a girl, it shall be called emily, after my own feis.
At these words away she ran; nor could all his prayer and entreaties prevail on her to come back. IS he is in love with her,
(as I verily believe he is) I most Sincerely pity him; for tho’ I think, cousin Dicky does not stand a bit better chance, yet if I am at all read in the human heart; it will not occasion that gentleman half the Concern : not but, I believe, ■ he likes her very well, but being almost as giddy as herself; the refusal is not So likely to affect him in So essential a manner.
When we were alone the other day;, be says. Miss Seagrove, \ have sought an opportunity for Some time, of pleading the cause of an absent friend; but perhaps, there is Something (producing and
giving
/
Miss ravenswortm.
giving me a letter) which will have more weight than all the arguments I can make use of,
I blushed, Charlotte, and putting
it in my pocket, thanked him for the trouble he was at. He took my hand, and stghing Said, Oh! miss Seagrove, that my cousin Emily was possessed of half your charming fenffbility. I told him, she was a most amiable girl, and I laid under obligations to her, which, I, was afraid, it would be out of my power ever to return.
So saying, I took my leave of him, and hurried upstairs to read my letter : need I tell you, it was dictated in terms none but my Harry is capable of uffng. I must not answer it, Charlotte; he Says, Mr. Ravensworth will introduce him to our family by the name of Conyers; and he is to make his ap
V *
in about ten days. Oh! char irotte, tell him not to come, dejir ah

'
- he is to me; I dare not venture to sec him; my father ahd mother have beeii
here in their way to Mr........... and
should they find him here at their return, I should be ruined.
They wanted to deprive me of 'my Sprightly Emily, perhaps they think she is too much my friend. Mr. Ravensworth desired her Some time ago, to pay a visit to Mr. morley’s of M ....; which she answered very concisely, by saying. Indeed, grand papa, I shall not. There was no more Said about it then; but when my father and mother were here, they begged they might have the, pleasure of her company, instead of their own Henrietta, to go to M....
She turned about to them, with the greatest archness you ever Saw, And pray now, Mr. Seagrove, (after having told you positively that I won’t go) what can be your motive for Such an invitation; at Such a time too, when your own daughter
is
L

IS here, and her sttuation, God knows,
none of the most eligible; there is no sort of necessity to make it worse, by depriving her of the only young Semale that can be a companion to her: but it don’t stgnisy, you prove too plainly what I have very often asserted, that young folks have ten times the constderation in them of old ones.
I could see the old people were all rather disconcerted at this Speech, as it was actually very impolite; but that is a point my little friend never stands upon, when Ihe thinks she has' reason to be otherwise; and as she is really honest herself, she has no notion, she Says, of people’s endeavouring to deceive her, and impose upon her understanding by playing the hypocrite.
Mr. Ravensworth Said with Some degree of Severity, Emily, I do insist upon your going with Mr. and Mrs.
Seagrove; as they have been kindi
\
yojl.i. P enough
/
y
/
34
i. V
enough to Suffer miss Henrietta to stay here, I am determined you shall return the compliment.
What a pity it is, Mr, Ravensworth, says Emily, (with a degree of haughtiness, unequalled by anything I ever yet saw and which I did not believe her papable of) that you should make detei'* minations So utterly out of your power to fulfil. Now you must know, that I am as firmly determined as yousels^ and a my resolutions, are of infinitely more consequence to me; than yours can be, I Shall most strictly adhere to them f nd must affure both Mr. and Mrs. Sea GROVE, that they deviate extremely from
that politeness they would be thought pofless’d of, to attempt preffimg for my company, when they see it is entirely ^sagreeable.^; :; vr.; L ^.
o Saying, with the air and majesty of ^ tragedy queen, she locked contempt on
shem alii and left the toomr
: '' ' ■ LS
^ f

is it not a pity, Charlotte, that nothing can break this little blameable Spirit j which Spoils an (otherwise) really amiable woman?
When she was gone, Mr. Ravensworth began to lament the undutiful ness of children : Coustn Dicky Said, her thought Emily quite in the right, as she was entire miftress of herself, it was very impertinent to control her.
The old gentleman’s Sury was now going to vent itself upon him; but he rose up, and going to the harpstchord, entertained us with one of the finest per --
k
formances on that instrument, I ever
heard.
Indeed those two cousins are So exactly alike, that one would almost Swear they were brother and stster; but if I am not mistaken, they will be no little plague to the old people in the end.
A message was Sent at tea, for miss Ravensworth to come down, but, shed
2 would
I
%
$6
would not make her appearance ’till next day; when papa and mama (who have, I see, conceived a mortal aversion to her) were obliged to go without her.
After their departure, She, who is one of the best horsewomen in the world, proposed a ride: to this movement great opposition was made, by the old people, afraid (I suppose) of your humble Servant; but she, according to custom, carried the point, and lent me a beautiful horse of her own.
We were accompanied by your flame,, the handsome Ravensworth; and never did he look more amiable than on horseback. Our excursion was to Colonel hornby’s, about three miles off; from whom, and his lady, we received an invitation to a ball next Wednesday.
Emily promised Sorus all; vowing, she should expire at the bare idea of a disappointment: and we are, I suppose, to go, though' the old people are not yet
acquainted
\
 7
acquainted with ©ur intentions. Oh! Charlotte, what pleasure can I take at the thoughts of an entertainment of this kind, without my dear Harry.
Adieu, my love, I am growing very low Spirited, and would not willingly infect: you with So disagreeable a disorder. Remember me to your good Aunt; and believe me, most stncerely, yours,
I
H. Seagrove. LETTER IV
Richard Ravensworth, esq;
To Captain Henry Crosby.
OH! Harry, what an unsortunate
dog, am I? Did not I make a kind of resolution against that little blind deity, commonly called Love; whose attacks I, have already So often resisted, but to whose power, I fear, I must now, at last, Submit?
D 3 Yes,
\
  '
: yes, there was Some Such kind of a determination made, I know; but, alas! how weak are all the wise resolves of man. This little bewitching Emily — ^tis the arranteft coquet in nature: — and yet, Harry, I cannot help Seeling k kind of Something about my heart that tells me, Ihe is not quite So indifferent to me, as her behaviour, and my own peace make
requisite she should— — true, Tm designed for her husband;; — what of that; — she takes a pleasure in thwarting the intentions of the whole family; and it is not ten to one, (even if she liked me, which, I fear, is very far from being the case) but she would refuse to marry ine from the mere Spirit of contradiction, which she possesses in a most eminent degree.
What then am I to expect? when I know she has not the slightest Spark of love for me.? Why; — is she has not for me, I know she is equally indifferent
to
! %
N .4
 5
so eveiy one else'tis quite aii insensible— — I don't believe it is in the power of man, to make an impression upon her little stubborn heart.
I
After Such a description of her you’ll no doubt tell me, it is not consistent with prudence to marry Such a woman. — Faith, Harry, prudence has nothing to do in these affairs of the heart,
I know her insensibility, to a man of your Serious turn, would make you very miserable; but I, who am not quite fa much in the Arcadian style j think it very possible to be happy with a" fine girl, (provided she don’t like any one else) though' she is not Such a cooing turtle as one o your Sentimental Swains would require, — • In short, there is z je northeast seat quoiy about my little coustn; — a pleastng kind of Something, which takes my fancy extremely; — and though she is not absolutely dying for me, yet, could I prevail on her to give me her hand, I doubt notj, D 4 but
40
but I should Soon pofless mysels of as much of her heart, as she is capable of bestowing; and should think myself very happy with this advantage, to a man of my lively disposition, that I might live with her twenty years, and find out Something new about her every day.
She can be in the pensoroso style Sometimes, rh assure you; though' not for any of the male frights, as she calls us : yet she knows how to pity a Semale friend, in the person of your Henrietta.
Egad, Harry, you are a devilish lucky Sellow; she is really an amiable woman, and I dare Swear, loves you most sincerely; and I do most Sincerely wish, that you were both as happy as you deserve. to be.
What Say you to dancing with her next Wednesday, Harry, hey.? — Now do I hear you give a deep sigh, and most heartily wish me at the Devil, for putting Such thoughts into your head,
when
 1:
when it is utterly impossible they should be brought to pass.
don’t affront me. Captain 'Crosby; — take care, — your fate is in my hands. — Pray, don’t you know one Colonel Hornby, who lives atg...? Well, is I do, what’s that to the purpose, is that anything to my dancing with miss sea orove? This impertinent Sellow teizes me past my patience, with his ill timed vivacity.
Hold, hold, Harry. Levins fit patien' Ua quicquid. Corrigere eji nefas. don’t abuse me, or I shall keep you in suspenfe a considerable time longer. — Pshaw, to the point. — Well then, Harry, to come to the point. Pray, could not you contrive to pay this Colonel a visit on v/ednesday? — Oh I now, perhaps, you begin to enter into the Scheme. — Well then, Harry, to put you out of your fuspence, I will explain the whole affair, to you.
This

* ^
0
; This Same Colonel, and his lady, ard going to give a ball, to which we are all invited. — Meet us there; as you are unknown to all our family, I’H take care you shall have your charmer Sora partner; and I will contrive it So with the Colonel, that your name shall not be mentioned, tho’ that caution will be unnecessary, except we are Savoured with the company of Aunt Patta stale virgin of our family, to whom if you could recommend a husband, you would be of infinite Service) who is a perfect: duenna over us, and takes a pleasure in depriving poor Henny of her sweet heart; as, she Says, she might have been married a thousand times hersels, if prudence had not restrained her from throwing herself away upon wild young fellows, who would have broke her heart in a short time, (tho’ between you and I, Harry, I believe it to be a damn’d tough one) and those, who are not naturally en ^
T dowed
j
 3
%
V
"dowed with So great a share of good sense, may thank God they have got parents, who know their interest: better than they do themselves. — But — however, we can easily contrive to deceive her, and you will have the pleasure of entertaining your divinity.
She knows nothing of my writing to you; but lest she should be too much Surprised at Seeing you, and by that means betray us, I shall tell Emily to acquaint her with it.
persuade her to run away with you, Harry— — what a confounded puppy are you, to let them confine her in this manner. — Pluck up thy Spirits, my lad, in So Sair a cause, and make her thy own at once, — You may both of you Sigh on to the end of your days, without you pursue this method : — I don’t See how matters are in the least likely to mend,
I wish that I was a tenth part as well beloved by my little Emily, as you 'aie by your Henrietta,
44
i’m afraid I stiall never get her; but I
^ •
don’t think a disappointment ‘will absolutely break my heart.
No D.. n it, Harry, not quite So bad as that neither. Tho’ I admire her beyond any woman I ever Saw; yet the
wound I have received, will not prove a
»
mortal one. I am too general an admirer of the fair Sex for that.
Next to her ladyship, I admire the little Brunette you introduced me to in London, miss — miss Danby— — it not?' — Your henny’s friend, I think:
VI
Faith, Harr'v, I believe I love my little vixen of a coustn, from having adopted her own principles; merely, from the Spirit of contradiction, because, I see, she is totally indifferent about me.
And yet ’tis the most provoking in ‘difference; — she likes me as her coustn, or her brother; just in the Same style admits me into all her little parties, makes me the confidant of all her Schemes; and
when
 5
when I begin to Say Soft things to her — She bursts out a laughing, with — • Lord, coustn Dicky, I could not possibly have believed you would make Such a puppy of yourself— — •! think there is anything in nature So ridiculous as a stghing Swain, who fancies himself in love. If I attempt to remonstrate with her, and remind her of her parents intentions: — her answer is, — Well, child, I see you are troubled with a fit of the fool, at present; when you are inclined to be rational again, my wise coustn, let me know, and I shall converse with you upon any other topic you shall make choice of: So saying, madam leaves me. If I attempt to detain her — she draws up her head, begins to frown and look grave; — wonders at the extremity of my impertinence in daring to lay the least restraint upon her inclinations, by keeping her in Such odious company against her will. And I am forced to quit
my
^ THE HIST OR V Qf ■
my hpld^ and be filent upon a Subjects
#
which I most: heartily wish decided one way or other,
i Gur old Souls dare not mention it to her, lest it should be a means of entirely ruining our hopes; and even if the good-natured Henrietta attempts it, the little vixen either rallies her in the most unmerciful manner, or elfe looks So stately and cross, that flesh and blood can’t bear it
i In Such a devilish Situation, Harry, what would you advise me to do? — Not to forget — *! posttively can’t resolve upon that yet. — - To treat her with equal indifference — That I have tried, but without the least success— — does not alter her behaviour to me in any respect;; does she really, I believe, perceive it, except that she ds rather pleased, in being So long free from my importunities.
She has Several sighing Swains, bestdes myself; she coquettes alike with all, but
/ favours
MISS ravenrworth. 4^
favours none, in particular, above aii hour or two together. — But come and lee her, Harry; though' I charge you, take ear of your heart, much as you dote on your Henny; FH assure you, ’tis a dangerous little toad. Take care, I Say, for I posttively won’t admit a rival; I love hex well enough to be confoundedly jealous, if I was to See her guilty of the least: partiality, — And yet — that, would avail me nothing: — for I question, but if I was to betray my sensations, Ihe would throw herseis into my rival’s, arms, on purpose to vex me: and if I was tq quarrel with him, Ihe would hate me to all eternity, tho’ ssie did not care two
I
pence for him; So, that there is no possibility of knowing how to deal with Such a capricious little Soul. Adieu, Harry, i’ll Say no more about her; the more I think, the more perplexing do circumstances appear; So, i’ll e’en take up my old custom again, - of— —. thinkin
ST
48 tjtin; HISTORY OF
0
thinking at all — but when it’s in my power to prove mysels,
Your most stncere
and affectionate friend^
Richard Ravensworth*
s
LETTER V
miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Clayton.
DID you think I was dead — buried j
or eat up with the vapours — that you have not heard from me So longj Maria? As for the former, my dear,
I will, out of my great humility,. acknowledge, that I have an old proverb on my fide; consequently, there could be no danger of that you know. Not that I make this humiliating confession, without expecting a compliment in return; and therefore, child, if you baulk my expectations, look to the consequences — that’s all.
With
. •
• %
MISS ravensworth. '4^
. With regard to the Second, my dear,
there are So many ways of being buried
that I don’t know whether your conjecture
might not be pretty right, as to that part
_ •
of tlfe story; with respect to the burying I mean — 'but not as to it’s being the cause of my Silence. — No, Maria, neither was it the vapours; tho’ they are generally known to be So necessary art appendage to the character of a fine lady; they are a fashion, I am So far from having adopted, that I think myself a very fine lady without them.
I shall learn them, I suppose, when I come to London to take care of your Ladyship, at that critical time, which I most Sincerely wish well over with my amiable friend.
None of these things were the cause • Well then, I hear my curious friend say, what was the cause? Why, my dear, the cause was a young — no, Maria, not a young gentleman, i’ll assure you, but a Voi. I. E y oung
THE hlstory OF
young lady : Such a girl! oh F Maria.. None of your heroics, I hear you Say, pray proceed wish your story,, and leave out your oh's,, Mrs. emiitv.
I positively won’t, Mrs. Clayton, if you don’t let me tell my tale my owa way,, you stia’nt have it at all: oh !* Maria, then,, (to proceed in formi Such an angel come to our mansion!! be jealous, my Sweet girl, but she really is almost as amiable as yourfeis.
Old dad and mam Sent her here, to he out of the way of a kind of monster commonly called, a man, my dear; a Sweetheart, Maria. — Y ou understand me. - — You have leen monsters of that Sort, I suppose? But this of hers is she most horrid creature of the Species, that dangerous kind of animal that wears a red
~ o
coat and shoulder knot, my dear, and is generally distinguished by the name of
^laptainf
I imagine.
  ft
I imagine, by this time, I may have made myself pretty well understood; is not, I will out of my great good nature endeavour to Speak more intelligibly.
_• f
This Sweet creature Was brought to be out of the way of one Captain Crosby,
A Sweet fellow, by her account, I’H assure you; but without her knowing, that they were acquainted with her penchant for him.
This Secret to be Sure was entrusted to our fudging old souls at home, God bless 'em, in order to have an eye over Miss, that she might have no opportunity of appointing a rendezvous with her Swain; the good creatures, out of their great v/isdom and policy, acquainted your humble Servant with it. — I— — you know, never could keep a Secret in my iise, immediately disclosed it to the young lady herself (who, pretty creature, is piping
I
from morning till night after her Sweet Harry) the consequence of wstich was,
2 my
52
my dear, that I assisted her in carrying on a correspondence with a friend, who constantly informs her about him; and thro’ the means of an humble Servant of mine, we have contrived to gain them a meeting.
We were all invited to a ball; and I bid Cousin Dicky, (who by the by is arrived from abroad, Maria) write to the dying Captain, and appoint him to be her partner : which he did.
But when we all came down full dressed, my dear, to go, (for we had not acquainted the old souls with our Scheme, for Sear they should have Sent Aunt Pat with us) you never Saw astonishment So strongly depicted in people’s countenances in your lise; the coach had drove to the door, by that time we had descended the stairs.
I Says, Your Servant, good people, we are just a going. Going! where to. Says old Squaretoes? Why now, suppose. it
should
#
 j
should not be quite So convenient to tell you, grand papa. Says I; for my Own part I Sairly own, I am going to meet my Sweetheart — What these demure Souls are going for, you may if you please ask ’em: I don’t think they look as if they had any errand of this kind; but I dare Say they will tell you.
'Hold your tongue. Says the old Don, and let your cousm Speak, and give me a rational answer.
As for the first, I posttively will not; I am infinitely too much delighted with the music of my own Sweet voice, either to hold my tongue or let any one else in company Speak, if I can possibly help it; and indeed, with shame I own it of So near a relation, you are the most ill-bred man in the world to desire it; for which jeafon, I absolutely will not stay another minute with a person who Sets So light a value upon the elegance of my converfa uom As to the next, poor thing! with
E 3 regard
* t
i
/
$4
regard to the rational answer, it may not be quite So easy for him to give that as you imagine.
Upon this I was Sailing away with all imaginable expedition, when I heard miss Seagrove (the name of our Sweet girl) called back; about I turned again, and entered with her.
Says grandaddy, You will particularly oblige me by Saying, where you are now going to? And at the Same time, I hope you will not take it amiss, when I assure you,, that I had your father’s positive orders that you were not to go out.
The pretty demure Soul answered with tears in her eyes, that she was willing to obey her papa in anything, or anybody that he gave authority over her, for which reason if it was his orders she would stay at home; but begged that might be no hindrance to the other young people.
No, my Sweet love. Says I, we are not So easily hindered, nor you neither; I
promised
 5
promised you stiould go, I engaged you, and I am determined not to be worse than my word.
Hold your impertinent tongue, Emily, says the old gentleman, let miss sea grove’s behaviour be a pattern for you to copy by; I insift —
Sir, (interrupting him) you may is yoa please insist to the day of temptation; but ■it will all be to So little purpose, that I would have you take my advice and Spare your lungs the trouble of proceeding.
During this Speech, I had given the vrink to Coustn Dick y; who bore off
s ^
the trembling Henrietta, and was going to put her in the coach, before the old people perceived him; So intent were they in listening to your humble Servant.
Mils Pat was the first that made the discovery. Oh! Sir, Says she, it’s my belief, they are going to run away; for god’s Sake try to prevent them.
#
E 4 Neither
j6
Neither one nor t’other, my old maiden Aunt, Says I; we Shall run no farther than Colonel hornby’s, where we are invited to a ball; and as for opposing us, it is an attempt you need not make, as it will be entirely unsuccessful.
Indeed, they were So astonished at my uncoinmon affuranee, (which I could not have exerted without an absolute necessity,, they gave me time to run away, jump into the coach to them, and drive off without any further molestation, Poor Henny was sright’ned to death, that they should acquaint her old Daddy with these proceedings; but we assured
t
her, at least, they could lay no crime to her charge J even Dicky was a little terrified at the thoughts of appearing before them again, but ypur friend was in tiptop Spirits.
Captain Crqsby was there besore us — quite an Adonis, indeed. I whispered flenny — Run away with him, my dear;
 7
take a frisk into Scotland, and end the
debate at once.you mad thing you, Says She, would you do So? — Undoubtedly, my dear. Says I, you know I would, Maria) if I was in love with Such a Sweet fellow as that, he should not long complain of my cruelty, Henny, believe me. — But would you disobey your parents? — disobey, a fiddlestick — to be Sure, I would be disobedient to anything Sooner, than the dictates of my own heart and inclinations.
We were interrupted here, by Several people asking us to dance,
miss Seagrove was engaged; and as for me, I Sent the frights away; telling them, they might alk me about an hour hence, the time when the country dances would begin; as if I promised any one of them, ’twas very probable my mind might be changed, in So long an interval pf time,
Fain
%
5^
Fain would my horrid coustn have persuaded me to have been his partner, but I declined the honour, vowing, I would as Soon dance with my grandfather. Mr. Harding too came up, and asked me; but I desired him to go home, and intercede with Aunt Patty for the honour of her fair hand, if he wanted a blooming damsel by way of partner; away went poor dismal, and continued in the pouts for the whole remainder of the
I
evening.
I wonder what bustnefs the wretch has to be in his airs about me; i’m Sure, I never gave him any encouragement to address me with his odious passion.
aster him, comes a pretty young Swain, a stranger; (you know I love strange faces, my dear, nothing like a little Sweet Variety in life) I accepted of him, no doubt; having two Such powerful advocates, the charms of novelty, ' and a fine figure; fie is, I have learned Since, a
young
»
mrss RAVENSWORTH. 0
young barrister, a man of fortune and family, with a better understanding than most of his profession, and a very lively disposition.
cousin Dicky, who (as my ceusin)' is really an amiable fellow, but who (as a' lover) I detest the very thoughts of, looked extremely grave the whole evening. How dare he, my dear, presume to look grave? I dare Say, if I was married, the monster would have the assurance to contradict me. — Oh! Tis a hideous thins:
o
to be married : don’t you think So, Mrs, Clayton? No; Such tame turtles as
4
you Soon get reconciled to the yoke, and bear it with a Christian fortitude; but
I
a girl, who centres all her happiness in
r
darling Liberty, as I do Horrid, Maria, I expire at the very thoughts of being controlled by a Set of wretches, who were born to be staves, if our Sex, in general, had but Spirit enough to assert their right, and keep the things in proper Subjection
/
»
6o
I believe, I have made a conquest of the young lawyer. — Poor thing. How I pity him. — I shall certainly be cruel; tis in my very nature, Maria, I love to torment the confident souls. — How dare they think, they can cheat your friend out of her heart and liberty— — insolent Such a supposition— —! my dear friend, is I was in love, I should expect a warmer lover, than this Same Captain Crosby; — he knows the dear
girl is dying for him, and it makes him
*
Saucy. — How should I dote upon taming Such a lover?
My cousin Ravensworth danced with a younger Sister of Mrs. Hornby, whom I never Saw before; miss Harriot Manning — she is very pretty, and Seems to be agreeable. — I have given her an invitation to H..., and hope she will accept of it; especially, as I shall soon, I suppose, be called on to attend you; and, I think, she will be a pretty companion
for miss Seagrove,
 i
I have now given as good an account of the ball, as my time will permit. — Captain Crosby and Henrietta parted with real concern on her lide, and Something like a pretence to it on his : they are to meet in the Summer house, at the end of our park, on Sunday; — the better day, the better deed, you know, Maria. — I delight in quoting old proverbs. I have really been so accustomed to antiquity, that I cannot help having a kind of veneration for everything that bears the name and appearance of being ancient. — Poor Henny — I really am in pain for her; I don’t like this redcoat fellow. — No, i’ll be a dutiful child, and do as grand papa bids
/
me in that respect; i’ll never marry an officer, Maria; they are all too Sond of their own pretty persons, to pay any regard to that of a wife; they are abominable coxcombs, even malice itself must allow.
My
0
62
My Swain, I suppose I need not tell you that, was dying at the thoughts of iofing my Sweet company; and fearing the consequences of a refusal might be fatal, I permitted him the honour of paying his compliments to me the next day.
■ When we got home, our old turtles were litting up to receive usexclaiming, I fuppose, at the wickedness of the times, and the insufferable pass that young people wer now arrived at. — They began, by very politely assuring both my cousin and me, that we might prepare to leave the house immediately, for they were determined not to harbour Such reprobates any longer. — Master Dicky went and entertained himself at the harpstchord: — » and I Said, Blessed me, who thought of finding you up at this time; indeed yoa are quite rakes tonight.
If you are disposed to be impertinent, Miss Emily, I am not in a humour to encourage either that, or disobedience, and
I am
MISS ravensworth., 6^
t am determined you shall quit my house. You intend, shortly, to get me a good husband then, grand papa, do you buc I would not have you be in a hurry to provide for me, before Aunt Patty. — Miss Patty was in the room. — How dare you, Miss, give yourself these insolent airs? I must assure you, they are not to be bore with. — Oh!! I, this Sitting up at nights., is the absolute ruin of all ancient people, I perceive. — Why, Aunt Patty, you are certainly distracted,, child. — I can’t, for my own part, see anything the least insolent in a good husband;; told a fib by the bye, Maria, Sori think them the most impertinent things in nature) and I would not lay ten to one, that you are not of the Same opinion.
Come, Says my grandfather, there ia no end of your tongue, I see : go to bed, and in the morning I shall talk to you a little more Serioussy — < We obeyed, my
dear.
64
dear, retired to our apartments, dreamed. of our Sweethearts, and got up the next morning to write to our friends; ecce num, Maria. Adieu, my dear, I am called to breakfast. Now for a Scene with our old Don, I dare Say of a most entertaining nature. — Give my best compliments to your lord and master, Maria. Lord, how horridly that Sounds! No, I shall never be brought to endure it: and believe me, my dear friend’s most affectionate •
Emily Ravensworth,
L E T T E R VI
Miss Seagrove to miss Danby.
YOU’LL receive this, my deaf Charlotte, by the hands of Emily; she is called to town a month Sooner than she expected, by a friend of hers, who has been married about a year, and is now just at lying in. —
emil t
 5
Emily promised to attend her during that time; and she has now got a letter, requiring her presence. — Oh I Charlotte,
how melancholy will my time pass without my lively companion : She has invited, during her absence, a miss Harriet Manning, to bear me company; and through her means now we are to correspond. Your letters mull: be directed under a cover for her; she is lively and agreeable, but I much fear, will not make up to me for she loss of my little friend.
cousm Dicky attends her to town; and, I suppose, while she continues there, we shall not have much of his company at H... — You will see him often, Charlotte; and I hope, the amiable sensi bility of my Sweet friend, will in time compensate to him for the extreme indifference of his cousin.
I met Captain Crosby at she ball. I thought he appeared rather cool : I thought
vol. I. E too, —
m
t,
too, — But Surely, ' Charlotte, I cannof
i
be troubled with jealousy; yet could I not help thinking, that he looked particularly Ghagrined, > when Emily refused him her hand to dance a minuet. — His eyes were entirely fixed on her the whole evening; and, I fancied, the concern he showed at parting from me was entirely felt on her account. I met him the Sunday following, in a fummer house at the bottom of Mr. ravens worth’s park; he came by the appointment of young ravens vvorth : we all walked out in the afternoon, and found him waiting at the park gate, having left his horses and Servant at an inn in the town,.
He met me with an indifference I could not help observing; and when Emily, and her Cousin, walked away from us, i though he could not absolutely follow them, and by that means lose the oppor --
tunity they gave him of entertaining me a
1
Sew minutes in private; yet bis eyes and
actions
MISS ravensworth* 67
actions plainly proved the uneasiness of his mind, and had they not joined Us again Soon after, I really believe, I stiould have fainted, at the visible and cutting alteration in his behaviour.
He faintly alked me. If I could venture to disobey my parents, and marry hiril without their consents; but he alked it, Charlotte, as if he wished to be denied I told him, I should always esteem him as the man who was to be my husband 5 but that though no force on earth should ever make me give my hand to another; yet would I never marry him, till I had either obtained my parents consent, or Was entire mistress of myfeis.
Emily, after her usual manner, rallied me upon my extraordinary obedience; and upon the closing in of the evening, fearing a Search, we were obliged to part: but not: till Mr. ravensv/orth had promised, to bring me to the Same place again that day se’nnight. But the depar
f2 ture
68
%
ture of miss Ravensworth, which we heard of the day after, will render that Scheme impracticable. Thus Situated, my dear Charlotte may guess, I am not in the most enviable state of mind : the indifference of my beloved Harry, and the loss of my good-natured Emily, have indeed rendered me truly wretched : and yet, Charlotte, if he really is of a fickle disposition, ought I not to rejoice that I have discovered it before the irrevocable ceremony is past, which in that cafe must have made me miserable for life.
Perhaps, it is not yet too late to conquer a weakness, which I have so
\
much, so fatally indulged : yes, Charlotte, I think, I will endeavour to banish from my thoughts an ingrate; who can so easily break through all vows of love and constancy, and cruelly attempt to wound a heart, whose greatest fault was its too tender attachment to him : but for his Sake never more will I listen to the addresses of his Sex.
f
 ^
4
Oh! my friend, if Harry is capable of deceit, what man is there on earth that can be just? I shall begin now to think with Emily, and learn to despise the whole male part of the creation. Much as she rallies old maids in general, yet I don’t know anybody in a fairer way of becoming one than herself, if she does not very much alter her present opinion.
Since Captain Crosby is inconstant,
(if he is So, Charlotte, but, oh! most Sincerely do I wish that I may be mistaken)
I am really Sorry he has fixed upon Emily as the object of his passion, because he stands So little chance, both from her levity and infensibility, of ever Succeeding in his desires; believe me, my Charlotte, I am romantic enough to wish him both success and happiness, in every Scheme of life he may engage in; and I know the generosity of emily’s heart, bestdes her real indifference of disposition, would make her most heartily
F 3 despise
9
y O JL n j i XI 1 O X w S X J Sr
despife Captain Crosby, is ever she stiould discover his partiality for herself.
She now comes in with tears in her eyes, and demands my letter— — is going — Yet can hardly tell me So.
Oh! Charlotte, if She is So sensibly affected, with her lively disposition, and in her different circumstances, think what your friend must feel; tied to her, as I am, by gratitude, for the numberless obligations I owe her, and left in so very disagreeable a sttuation. Adieu, my dear friend, I can no more at present; pity and believe me.
Your stncere and affectionate
V
Henrietta Seagrove,
LETTER VII
miss Danby to Miss Seagrove.
Emily has just been here, my dear
A
Henny, and with her, her amiable cousin: — She came in but with a kind
of
  fi
A
f melancholy air, that very much contradicted her general character: Miss Danby, Says she, (with a bev/itching sostness in her look, that made me think, if I was a man I should certainly die for her) I bring you a letter from an amiable friend of yours — Miss Seagrove, madam; and I do moss: Sincerely wish, you would join with me, in inventing Some Scheme that may bring her among us. —
I did not then know who she was, though I should, perhaps, have guessed from her being with Mr. Ravensworth, had not the gravity of her deportment staggered Such a Supposstion, I begged leave to read your epistle, and then found that the fensibility of your Emily is at least equal to her fprightliness, You accuse her of indifference, Henny. — Why— — would not have her in io\e you know with every man she meets? and the Swain that is to ward off from her that terrible Sentence, of dying an old
F 4 maid,
t
fz
maid, has not as yet, I suppose, appeared.
All in good time, Henny; I take upon me to answer for the susceptibility of her heart, when she Shall behold that man she
shall think worthy of the conquest; and
•\
'depend upon it, that time will come.
The lady is very young yet, and I see N nothing extraordinary in her not having.
So very early in life, thought of an affair on which depends the future happiness or
X
misery of it — Miss Ravensworth appears to me to be, though perhaps Sprightly, very far from thouglitlcss; and I do believe, she will not bestow her hand, where there is not a great chance of being happy, I will Say no more about her, till a Surther acquaintance entitles me to deliver my opinion more freely.
You will, perhaps, laugh at me for what I have already Said, but you know I pique myself upon being a physiognomist, and I think I can tell a great deal of a perfori’s disposition, at first Sight,
Soon
«
 3
<
Soon after I had read your letter, my aunt, who had been out on a morning
^ o
visit, entered the room: she started. You know Emily is really a most striking figure. — bless me, niece, I did not know you had company. — This is Miss Ravensworth, madam. Says I; the young lady where miss Seagrove is, and who has been kind enoua; h to charge
o ^
hersels with a letter from that lady.
Indeed, niece, we are infinitely obliged
^ ^ A: .-
to miss Ravensworth; and, I hope, "h
V
if she is come to make any stay in town, she will often honour us with her company.
I am much obliged to Mrs. Danby, says Emily, and as I am Sure I can nowhere pass my time more agreeabb/, I shall often do myself the pleasure of inquiring after mur health; and tho’ I cannot return the compliment while in town, the lady I arn with not being in a Situation to receive company; yet, if
you
•
A
\
%
74
you ladies will be kind enough to accept a couple of places in our coach, when we return to II ..., I shall esteem it a particular happiness myself; and I am Sure, it will most essentially contribute to the
restoration both of Miss seagrove’s
health and Spirits; which, I very much fear, will be impaired by the extreme
confinement and Solitude she Suffers at present.
Yfe both bowed, and thanked her for her polite invitation; which, if she should renew again, my Aunt will allow me to accept of. I plainly Saw she vas delighted with the polite and engaging behaviour of Miss Ravensworth; and indeed, it is next to an impossibility not to be in love with her.
Her amiable cousin too, Henny! oh! I dare not trust my pen, to Say much about him, lest it should too visibly betray the weakness of my heart; Suffice it to Say, when we Semales had done with our
complis
%
 5
compliments, he became the life of our company; and after having staid till almost dinner time, they retired, promising to call again very soon,
And now that I have parted with them, Henny, let me proceed to answer ons part of your letter, of which indeed, my dear friend, I don’t at all approve. — • Beware of jealousy, my love, ’tis dangerous to encourage so destructive a passion, Have more confidence in a man who has loved you So long, and who, to my knowledge, has given undoubted proofs of a most ardent passion: but stiould it turn
put, as you (I hope unjustly) expect,
* *
for god’s Sake, never one moment think of entertaining a Surther regard for a man. So every way unworthy, as he would then prove himself to be.
Hard as it appears, to conquer an inclination for a really deserving object; yet Surely, when a man falsifies his honour, his conscience, and integrity, ■ in So palpable
y6
pable a manner, one cannot look on him without contempt, and that is So nearly allied to indifference, that one may hope in time to recover one’s liberty, with this advantage, that it will make us more cautious another time, how we bestow our hearts too rashly.
Not that I think that has been at all your cafe; you have known your Harry, even from your infancy, and during the couise of Some years, you have had reason to think him the most amiable of men.
There is the less cause then, my dear girl, for suspicion; you ought to place more confidence in him, knowing him as you do, Henny : how can you suppose him So great a villain? Banish all Such thoughts, my lovely friend, and look forward to better days. — I hope to See you Soon, corapleatly happy in the pos seffion of a man, whom I am determined to have the best opinion of, ’till I have the most absolute and convincing proofs to the contrary.
t
 7
I truss: prodigiously in emily’s friendship, to bring about this wished for alliance; if she has the enterprizing genius you describe her with, I dare say, she will one way or other effect it: I really am impatient till I see her again. Surely her cousin and she, are the moss amiable couple, in the world; I don’t know in whose favour my heart beats moss : I do stncerely wish them both happy. And yet I don’t know how it is, but I certainly don’t wish them that happiness together. So much (constdering how it is desired by all their friends, and how calculated they are for each other) as I ought to do.
0
1 was interrupted by Mrs, Hannah Ridsdale a little while ago, who came up, and desired to know. Who that
charming young lady vas, that was here just now r for to be certain. ma’am, Says
she, she is the moss beautifulless young
creature I ever Set my eyes on. I told her
it
• *
f «
}
4
7«
it was miss Ravensworth, a particular friend of miss seagrove’s, who came to bring me a letter.
I then could not help bellowing a Sew encomiums on the lovely Emily; and the old maid Said, she ought to be endowed with a great deal of discretion to preserve that pretty Sace from the impertinent attacks of the male creatures; and begged she might be Sent for into the room, upon Some occasion; the next time miss Ravensworth paid us a visit. I promised she should; and she went out, quite in ecstacies about your pretty friend (little thinking, how very Severe she is upon all her Sisterhood.)
My Aunt too can talk of nothing elfe j and indeed, Henny, no more should I, if I was to write on till tomorrow morning; for which reason, that you may not complain too much of the sameness of my style, I shall conclude myself, my, dear henrietta’s Sincerely affectionate
Charlotte Danby
t
m 1 o o jcj o vv KJ Jis. 1 n. yy
LETTER VIII
miss Ravensworth to Miss Seagrove.
WILL my amiable Henrietta
excuse her Emil y, for not having taken an earlier opportunity of acquainting her, that immediately on her
__.
arrival in town, she waited upon miss Danby with her epistle. But indeed, my lovely friend, I was So extremely affected at the loss of your agreeable company, and the thoughts of the uncomfortable sttuation you was left in, joined to Mrs. clayton’s having had an extreme bad time, and very little hopes of her recovery till today, that my Spirits have literally been harraffed to death, and rendered me incapable till now of employing my pen.
I have not Seen your Charlotte Since my first visit;; intend waiting on
her to morrpw; but my coustn Dicky
\
pays his compliments to her every day.
So
Lord, Henny, I wish the fright may fall in love with her, and cease persecuting me with his odious family addresses.
%
don’t you think it will be a very eligible Scheme? She won’t be cruel; will she? No, heaven forbid; I expire at the very thoughts of a disappointment. Oh! how Sincerely I wish the creature yoked with any but myself; not but I think the thing will make a tolerable kind of husband, or I really would not recommend him to the lovely Charlotte; who, I am Sure, deserves the best usage these Sort of animals are capable of bestowing in the marriage state.
Oh! Henny, Henny, after all, what sort of a state is this same matrimony? Much as I have ridiculed it, I always had Some Small kind of intentions, in cafe I could meet with a pretty Swain, who s answered in every respect to my ideas of perfection; which, erdre nous, I think is impossible: :
say.
 i
'N
I Say, in Such a case, I had Some Small doubts upon me, whether or no, in order to Save Some rash youth from an untimely death, and myself from that never enough ' to be dreaded reproach of an old maid, I might not have been persuaded to have taken Such an Adonis for better for worse,
t
upon an absolute promise, that. he would never presume upon any account to contradict my absolute will and pleasure; for that, Henny, I positively could not bear: but now Since I came to Mrs. clayton’s, my love, I absolutely despair of ever finding a man, that either will, or can do proper justice to my charms, and make me happy as I should expect to be in Such a state.
Surely, is any woman in the World had a thorough right to a good husband, it is the amiable Mrs. Clayton; she is pos feffed of every accomplishment both of mind and person; she is the best of wives, remarkably lively and extremely Sensible: :
G If

If Such a woman, Henny, who ha absolutely every qualification to render the marriage state desirable, cannot meet with a Suitable return from a man who married absolutely for love; what have I to expect, who never. can attain to a thousandth part of her excellency? But she is at least happy in ignorance: she is not acquainted with her hushand’s infidelity; nor ever shall be is I can keep it from her knowledge.
And who do you think he has fixed upon as a proper object of his villainy I guess, Henny, if you can — No — impossible — You ccnild never suppose, who
it was he dared to look on in So insolent
%
a light.
Oh, my friend, I shall choke with rage, while I acquaint you it was — me — ■ He dared — yes, Henny, the wretch presumed to venture evem into my shed chamber, — My maid was just gone out,, and I was dressing by myself,, when he
tnteredr —
«
  gj
Mr. Clayton, Says I, what is it you can want? Is your wife any worse? I tremble with apprehension, left Something Very particular indeed should have induced you to take Such a liberty — He trembled too.
Can miss Ravensworth, says he, deny me the pleasure of Speaking a Sew words to her in private?
So many opportunities as Mr. Clayton has of Speaking to me in private every day in the parlour; what can now have happened So very particular, that you could not either have waited my Coming down, or Sent a Servant to desire my company, without So abruptly feeldng it in a place where it is never usual with me to receive any company. — If you want to Speak with me, sir. Says I, in a higher and as Severe a tone as I could put ni shall attend you in the parlour immediately; in the mean time your »bsence here' will particularly oblige me;
2 and
«4
. /
and I did not think Mr, Clayton would So Sar have broke thro’ all the bounds of good manners, as in his own house to trouble me with So unseafonable an intrusion.
Oh! miss Ravensworth, Says he,
calling himself at my feet, let the most ardent, the most tender passion, that ever warmed the breast of an admiring lover, plead my excuse.
I rosewith indignation painted on my countenance, and Said with a look of contempt : — A most lover like appearance you make at present, must certainly be
owned. Oh! Mr. Clayton, in how
%
very despicable a light do you now appear to me! — And is this the way you would recommend yourself to my esteem, by making yourself the most detestable monster human nature can produce? — A married man! — Married to the most amiable, the most deserving of women. — For stiame, Mr, Clayton, — recollect: yourself —
I am
< *.
  i5
I am willing to suppose this moss: insolent address, tho’ So early in the morning, is the effect: of liquor — it must— — is impossible you should have the boldness to treat me in so impertinent a style, if yoa was in a reasonable state. — Retire, str, (for he was still kneeling) and endeavour to repent so vile. So ungentleman like a proceeding. — So Saying, I was attempting myself to gain the door.
No, Miss Ravensworth, says he, starting up, and detaining me: By heaven, you shall not escape me thus.
Sir, Said I, either let me go, or I will alarm the house and neighbourhood. Take ‘ care, Mr. Clayton, I am very resolute; I should be Sorry to expose you; but depend upon it, I will, if you don’t jmme f diately let me go.
No, my love, says he, you will not I think do that for my v/ife’s sake.
How dare you? insolent as you are. Says I, make use of her name as a warrant
G 3 in
\
86
in so vile a cause: instantly unhand me, or you shall repent it while you’ve life. — » It was in vain, I threatened, Henny; in so cruel a Situation what could I do? I durst not make a noise, lest it should come to my maria’s ears, and prove a prejudice to her health. I began to be almost distracted; but recollecting a pair of pointed fciffars which I had in my pocket, I drew them from the sheath, and before he could have time to prevent me, stabbed him thro’ the hand.
He muttered a great oath; but the pain obliged him to quit his hold, and I ran downstairs.
Since that, I have never trusted myself without the door locked, and my maid in the room; and in the daytime, I have never stirred out of Mrs. clayton’s
apartment. — Oh! Henny, would to heaven I was safe at H... again : I detest this vile London, and tremble at the thoughts of this more vile Clayton.
He
4
  §7
He Sometimes comes up to inquire aftar his Sweet wife, but Scarce ever casts a look at me. Had it not been for her Sake, it would not have Signified had the Scistars stabbed him through the heart instead of hand.
don’t you think they are a pretty kind of weapon, my dear? they outdo the tongue a bar’s length, I find: pray never go without a pair in your pocket; and recommend the same caution to Aunt Pat, lest at any time her virtue Should Suffer an attack. Do you think shie would make use of them? — No — I fancy the poor virgin would be so terrified, the monster might work his will, on her, before she Could recollect herself enough to stand upon the defensive
I dare Say, my lovely girl, during the time that I am entertaining you with my owm* affairs, you most devoutly wishi me at Jerico, for not mentioning a word to you about a certain person, named
G 4 Harrit
ss   Harry Crosby. Oh! Henny, Henny,
what a Sad thing it is to be in love I — Yes— — have Seen the creature, to be Sure. Well, what then rr — Why you don’t want to know any more about him, do you? Oh! but indeed I do, says miss sea t
GROVE — What a teasing wretch this
Emily is! — I am not, Henny; — how dare you call me iso? I shall be in the pouts presently if you affront me — Your lovely Captain is to meet you then just three days hence, (you can count, can’t you, Henny) not according to the lover’s calendar, my dear (for then you know I should call it three tedious years) but according to the common course of time, which if you can’t, I suppose miss Harriet can reckon for you.
He is to come with cousin Dicky, and meet you at the old place of appointment, our convenient park summerhouse, my love— — are acquainted with it, I dare Say,
Mr,
 ,
Mr. Ravensworth will dine with you, I suppose, and after dinner accompany you two young ones to the place of rendezvous, where you will behold your expecting Enamorato, dying with impatis ence for a Sight of his beautiful Dulcinea.
Well, much good may Such engagements be productive of, to my dear Henrietta; but as for me, I shall, I believe. Set me down a poor forsaken damsel at the last end of the tale, that is commonly known by the appellation of an old maid; that is to Say, I muss: lead apes, I suppose Why— — don’t know, Henny — Men
are but a more proportioned animal of that Ipecies, and why one stiould be tied to a great ape in this world, to avoid leading a little one in the next, I can’t conceive — No — if I don’t meet with an Adonis after my own heart, that apprehcnsion shall never cheat me out of my liberty, I am resolved.
Well, Henny, how do you find your sclf by this time, child? (i^ite delighted,
I suppose,
\
i
, 0
I suppose, "with the thoughts of what three days hence will produce. — A Spruce monkey in a red coat, hay my love — Well, I own the fright’s attractions to be very great: Oh! what numberless beauties centre in that pretty habit, and a well po w dered head. — No matter how the inside is furnished, you know, my dear, provided the friffeur is not Sparing in his more es fential materials.
excuse me, Henny, if I have made rather too free with your lovely knight: I will assure you, Mr, Clayton has put me more out of love than ever with the male baboons of every degree.
Indeed, my dear, I am very low fpirited : — will my sweet friend believe me? No, Emily, say you, I know you never are. For once, my lovely miss Seagrove, give me leave to contradict you, for I positively am. Not quite the vapours; yet I fancy — No, I believe not quite So apt a Scholar as that comes to;
tho’
 1
tho’ I See ladies dying of that fashionable disorder here every day; I have not absolutely caught the infection.
How you do to preserve yourself against them, my sweet Henny, in that Solitary place, who have been used to the noise and hurry of this great metropolis, I can’t imagine. For my own part — I would not own it to any but yourself, rny dear, and therefore I beg you would not betray your friend’s want of taste; yet really, my time hangs So heavy on my hands here, I cannot tell what to do; and I Suffer Such intolerable confinement, that I am half dead.
You may know by this, my dear, what reason to assign for it, if you should happen to think my letter most uncommonly stupid. — Do you think the excuse is paltable, Henny? — Whether you do or not, my dear, Mrs. clayton’s bell obliges me to conclude myself with sincerest wishes for your happiness,
Your ast'ectionate friend, e?4ily Ravensworth,
^2
LETTER IX
miss Seagrove to miss danbv.
UNDONE, undone, Charlotte,
oh! what will be the end of this unfortunate affair? We are discovered and ruined for ever. On Sunday, my dear girl, Mr. Ravensworth came to dine with us, but prior to that I had got a letter from Emily, acquainting me of his arrival, and that Captain Crosby was to come with him, and stay in the town till after dinner, and meet us as before in the park in the afternoon.
Accordingly as it was agreed, after dinner Mr. Ravensworth proposed a walk with miss Harriot Manning and myself miss Patty would fain have accompanied us, but young Ravensworth told her plainly, that we would not be
troubled with her,
I cer»
  pj
I certainly, Charlotte, had Some presentiment of what was to happen, for I trembled till I could Scarce Support myself : however we Sallied out, and when we came to the summerhouse, found my Harry waiting for us : we had conversed Some time together, when emily’s cou sm asked Miss Harriot Manning if she durst trust herself with him, to take a walk round the fishpond;; agreed, but just as they were going out, she started and Screamed. I went to See what was the matter, but judge of my Surprise, ongoing to the door, to See miss Patty with one of the maid fervants, standing under the window where we had been talking. She came up to me vvith rage and malice painted in her countenance — “So, Miss Seagrove, Says she, a pretty account v/e shall give of you to your friends at their return; I thought you had been a young lady of more discretion. And you too, my pretty nephew, I shall acquaint my
father
'
father of these proceedings — As for yon, Sir, Says she, turning to Captain Crosby (whose name she had heard mentioned during the time she had been lishiing) I fancy you have no Surther busmess here, the young lady will be better Secured for the future I will assure you; this is emily’s doings, I suppose, it is like her enough; but we shall counterwork her Schemes for once I believe.
Co northeast, miss Seagrove, continued she, you and miss Manning will be kind enough to return with me into the house :
o
as for my nephew, and the other gentleman, they are at liberty to do as they like.’* Oh! my dear aunt, says Mr. Ravensworth, I am immensely obliged to yoa for your great kindncss and condescension, ill permitting me to follow my own inclinations; but I must beg and inssst of you, never to mention this affair to my grandfather, or depend upon it, I shall re sent it to the utmost extent of my abilities.
 5
ties. Oh! as for that, Says miss Patty, I am perfectly easy about your threats, Master Richard, I give you my word; and it is utterly out of your power to turn my purpose in any respect, for I am determined those proceedings shall not be carried on any longer; I have too great a regard for the young lady, to stand by and See her ruin herself in So abominabw a manner.
Oh, miss Ravensworth, Says your trembling friend, if you have a regard for me, prove it now by concealing this affair; I here give you my Solemn promise, never to see Captain Crosby again while I remain in your houle : Oh 1 for the love of heaven, do not expose me to
the anger of my parents, when it can
»
answer no end either to you or them; my dear miss Ravensworth, consider before you do me So irreparable an injury,
miss Manning and the two gentle
o
men joined with me in the most earnest
ciitrea
I
^6
/
entreaties; but nothing could Soften the obdurate heart of this malicious woman. Captain Crosby reluctantly took his leave, and young Ravensworth, with Harriot, and myfels, went with miss Patty into the house.
When we entered the parlour, old Mr. Ravensworth Seeing me in tears, demanded the cause, and by that means gave his ill conditioned daughter an immediate opportunity of discovering my misfortune, and her own bad disposition.
The cause. Sir, says she, bursting with Spite and envy; the cause is, that if it had not been for me, Miss Seagrove would, by this time, with the assistance of my ungracious nephew, and this convenient young lady, have been carried, off by a fellow, by her Captain Crosby : but I suppose it was a contrivance of emily’s, and I am glad I have so luckily defeated it.
We
 7
We all remained Silent: Mr.• Ravensworth, and his "wife, both looked
astonishment; at last the old gentleman Spoke. “Upon my word. Daughter, I Scarce know how to believe all this; I always took miss Seagrove to be too dis creet for anything of this kind.”
Oh! yes. Sir, says miss Patty, and so did I too; but you See how it is : I think nothing but my own eyes could have convinced me of it. Your own eyes, Patty! Did you see it yourself? Yes, Sir, says she, You know I offered to walk with them, but they refused it — they did not want my company. No — no — that would indeed have defeated their designs; but I really guested there was Something in the wind, and So I determined to watch them, and discover, if possible, what they
V
were upon; and after having traced them to the fummer house in the park, where I Saw they were met by a young officer, I found out the whole affair.
vol. I. H Indeed,
^8
Indeed, miss Seagrove, fay’d Mr •ravensworth, I am extremely Sorry to hear this of you; I took you for a diff ferent sort of a young lady; but I muss: instantly acquaint your father and mother with what has happened; and in the mean time must beg of you to keep in the houscy ■■ for I should not do justice to my good
friend Mr. Seagrove, if I Suffered any more of these park encurstons. And for
you. Sir,, turning to, his grandson, I de
• *
you would quit my house, and never more let me See your face iir it. How dare you be assisting in Schemes of this
sort? When a lady is, entrusted to my care, is it for you to be aiding in her escape?
As for your house. Sir, returned the
young man, excepting tbese two young
«
ladies, - and my grandmother, I don’t care if it was at the D — 1, and every one in it.
There now, do you See, my dear. Says Mr. Ravensworth, Senior, turning to his wife; is this behaviour to be born
with?
 9
with? Oh! that ever I should be cursed, with the plague of having children and
I
grandi children; I don’t believe there ever was a man in England so plagued with a reprobate family, as myself.
Why really, my dear, Says Mrs. Ravensworth, I would not have you put yourself in a passion; to be Sure it was rather unthinking of the young people; it is not pretty for young ladies to be too forward in meeting young fellows; but I dare say there was no design of running away in the cafe; and I think for once we muss: conceal this affair from the knowledge of
o
Mr. and Mrs. Seagrove.
Conceal it! says Miss Patty : No, ma’am, I can affure you, if my father does not acquaint them with it, I will.
Hold your tongue, impudence. Says Mrs. Ravensworth (who is not at all Sond of her maiden daughter) I was Speaking to your father, and not to you, and I won’t be interrupted : I say, Mr, Ravens
H 2 vvmrth,
A
ICO
•*»
/
WORTH, I will be bound for miss sea grove’s future good behaviour, and I am determined her parents shall not be told of her.
You are an unaccountable woman, my dear, says the old gentleman (and Indeed, Charlotte, she is both master and mis tress, when she takes it into her head to be so) and I cannot conceive why you should desire to keep this a Secret, when, at the Same time, it is Setting a bad example for our own Emily, who, by the by, I fear, as Patty says, is at the bottom of these impudent transactions.
Aye, i’m Sure of it. Sir, says the old maid; but my mother never believes anything against her, you know.
You tell a falsity, Says Mrs. ravens wor.th (in a downright passion at hearing her darling Emily accused) you impudent hussy, get out of my Sight this moment, and leave the room. I wish you
was
\
  loi
was half as good as my Emily, I should have more credit of you than ever I had yet.
Mr. Ravensworth interrupting her. Fie, my dear, how can you talk in Such a manner?
Doist tell me, Mr. Ravensworth, retorted she, I am resolved I won’t have my granddaughter ill Spoke of by any one; you never knew how to esteem the worthy part of your family; but if you don’t know your duty to them, thank God, I do; and I will never hear them run down.
The old gentleman now feeing it was in vain to contend, remained Silent, and
miss Patty again began to Speak, and
> *
say’d, it was proper for Mrs. Hornby to be acquainted with the share miss Harriot bore in our intrigues; but Mrs. Ravensworth absolutely opposed it.
After Supper we retired to our apartments : in the morning young Ravenst WORTH left us, and as I suppose he has by this time acquainted his coustn with
H 3 our
\
103
ft
our misfortunes: I have not wrote to her. Oh! Charlotte, had she been there, her aunt durst not have watched us; we are yust lost for want of our amiable Emily.
How far Mrs. Ravensworth will be
0
able to influence the behaviour of her family, I cannot say; but I am Sure, if it is in her power to be of Service, the goodness of her heart will insure me her protection. Neither Mr. Ravensworth, nor Patty, have Spoke three words stnce Sunday: I fear there is Some mischief in the wind. Oh! Charlotte, vrhatrrmst I do is they acquaint my father with it?
I have everything to dread — How happy are you, my friend, in So good. So valuable an aunt -- how happy is Emily
in her independence -- in short, hov/
happy is every one when put in competition with your unfortunate Henrietta? Will my misfortunes never end? Surely, Charlotte, if it is a crime to
I
love, it brings its punishment most severely

1
  i
«>
along with It. Adieu, my love and pity the fate of
Your unhappy
H. Seagrove*
L E T T E R X
Miss Emily Ravensworth’,
To Mrs. Ravensworth.
WILL you j my dear, my ever honoured parent, assist your Emily in Saving her beloved Henrietta? Yes — I know you will — I know your amiable and benevolent disposition, ever ready to comfort the affiicted, will not give up my friend to the anger of an enraged and most. Severe parent.
cousin Dick has told me of Mrs, Martha's unworthy treatment of that sweet
%•
— Oh! why was I not there; shie should have cooled her penchant for listening, in the park fishi pond, besore ever shie Should have made a peaceable entry to
H 4 betray
%
104
betray my friend : — Acknowledge her not as your daughter. ma’am, she is not worthy of being blessed with so good, So amiable a mother — can’t you turn her out of doors; I think she will teach me to be as malicious as herfeis. I cannot bear her low, cunning, hypocritical tricks. What a Simpleton was Cousin Dick, not to give her a ducking — And now I talk of Cou
stns, my dear Madam, Cousin Tommy
*
is come iso town. Uncle john’s eldest: Son, and Such a booby! But I won’t anticipate, you’ll See him; and you’ll glory in your relation no doubt.
I don’t think be was ever at H — since we were both children; my Uncle Sent him to See my grandsather and you, I suppose, but the youth thought a trip to London, Sora short time, would be a. more eligible Scheme than visiting his country relations. Dicky happened to meet him by chance, and brought him to me.
He
 05
He entered with his pockets full of
t
nuts and apples, which all the eloquence of his cousin could not dissuade him from
y
buying as they came along. — After he had ssnifhed an apple, which was begun on when he entered — he bawled out loud enough to crack the drums of one’s ‘ ears, — ‘‘ cousm Emmy, how dost do? Thou art grown a stropping lass, Seath,
Then wiping his mouth, with the sseeve
«
of his coat, — Come, Says he, I mun have a buss, I thinks, for aud acquaintance feake, hay! Emmy — I hainst Seen you these ten years.” So Saying, he laid his rude pays upon me, and Smacked my lips for an hour — making noise enough for the whole town to hear him. Tho’ I "was really vexed, it was impossible to avoid laughing; and Dick enjoyed the Scene beyond measure.
He then offered me an apple, which I isefused; indeed, I thought ’twas a pity • to rob him, for he eat as if he had fasted
. forty
i
lo THE HISTOP.Y OF
forty days. When he had pretty near exhausted his magazine of provisions, he alked his cousin, where he dined? and what time? as he was Sure, he could
A y
never wait their plaguy London hours for jhis dinner. Dicky told him, he believed he should not dine till five o’clock; tired of his company, I suppose, and thinking this an effectual way to get rid of it. — Wounds, says Tommy, I wonder you be’nt hungred; we dine at father’s at one o’clock, and I always gets a Snack before dinner.
I alleed him, when he intended to pay his duty to his grandfather? He ansv/er^ ed. Mayhap, in two or three days. — aster having talked Some time longer,
O O ^
with cousin Dicky, about hunting and shooting, and Some of those very few things he Seems to understand, they retired.
For heaven’s Sake, madam, what could my uncle John be about, to bring up a Son in So strange a manner? — He really
is
 07
is not five degrees removed from a natural; I am rather doubtful, whether or no he can Spell his own name : I hope he will afford Some entertainment to my lovely Henny. How Sorry am I, that Mrs, clayton’s indispofition will not permit me to come down, and try to be of Service to her; but in you, my best: of parents, I put all my trust; you will, for your emily’s Sake, be a friend to her. I know stie loves Captain Crosby to distraction; but at the same time, I know he is not worthy of her. Your kind and gentle remonstrances will, perhaps, be of more force with her, to conquer Such a passion, than the most Severe rebukes from, any one else.
Suffer her not, my dear madam, to be insulted by Patty Ravensworth, (for Aunt I cannot call her) and prevail, if possible, with my grandfather, to conceal her meeting with Captain Crosby from Mr. Seagrove, Surely, it is a strange
prejudice
los
prejudice her parents have taken against this young officer, he is certainly a Suitable match for her; but that is best fettled amongst themselves. I think for henrietta’s part, did she know as much
I
of him as I do, she would never make him, unworthy as he is, the object of her choice.
He has taken it into his head, to declare .a tender for me, stnce I came to town; but I gave the gentleman his answer, in the Smartest terms; and am pretty Sure, he will never more renew his attacks in that quarter. This is the foundation I have for wishino; she mio ht Sorget him : but do not, my dear madam, be too abrupt in acquainting her with his infidelity; tho’ that caution was need less to you, whose amiable and worthy heart, ever shudders at the thoughts of giving pain..
And now, my dear madam, will you forgive me, if I say a word or two about
myself,
9
 09..
myself, this wedding of mine, my dear grand mama? I don’t think I shall ever bring myself to marry cousm Dicky; Sorry, as I should be, to disoblige my grand sather, and trebly Sorry to disoblige you; yet can I not in my heart, bring myself to accept him for a husoand. Will you be angry with your Emily for this confession? No — I am Sure you won’t —
I always made it a rule to acquaint you with every secret movement of my heart; and shall I now begin to use disguise, in So material a point to?
Indeed I cannot account for my aversion to this match; — I am Sure, my heart Seels no partiality in Savour of another; — 'if it did, you should be acquainted with it as soon as myself, and by your advice and counsel would I entirely be directed. Would you then wish your Emily to Sacrifice her peace for ever? I find, if you was to require it, I must comply; but, oh! my dear madam, believe me, I should
be
V
t
116
be a wretch for lise : and could I be made So by your means? No — it is out of your power, to inflict: So Severe a Sentence on your respectfully affectionate, and dutiful
Emily Ravensworth, L E T T E R XI
Mrs. Ravensworth,
To Miss Emily Ravensworth.
I Received yours, my dear Emily, and have So far complied with your request:, that I have persuaded Mr. raviensworth to lay his injunctions on Patty, not to mention to Mr. or Mrs. Seagrove a word of what is past, in regard to their daughter. But indeed, Emily, I am in a great deal of affliction.
Your grandfather, poor man, is taken violently ill with the gout in his stomach, and the doctor is apprehrnsive that the consequences may prove fatal. Your
Aunt
i
Miss RAVENSWORTH. ut
Aunt Patty is not So assiduous about him as I could wish. I own, my dear she is much to blame in many things; but still, she is your Aunt, Emily, and my daughter; and as Such, let her actions be what they will, has an undoubted right to claim from you, as her niece, a more respectful carriage. — Great as my regard is for you, I cannot encourage you in anything that bears the least appearance of wrong.
You say, she does not deserve to be my daughter— — Emily, if even the best of us were to meet with our deserts, what miserable wretches we should be; no, my love, there is a great and good Being who is judge over us all, and who will reward the righteous, and punish the wicked for their evil deeds. It is not for us, weak mortals, to can vass the actions of each other : if we are
ill-used, we must leave it to a wife and
^ 0
all merciful God, to avenge our wrongs,
nor
P
»
ux
nor dare presume to punish, where we ourselves stand in Such need of mercy: “Judge not, lest thou should be judged.”
I am Sorry to hear your cousin Tommy is in town; I think the Sooner you could prevail on him to come to H..., the better.
Tho’ your description of him may be pretty true; yet there again, Emily, I must condemn you. — He is your cousin, and as Such, nay, even as your fellow Christian, you should endeavour to Screen his faults, and not expose them. — If the Almighty has favoured you with Superior talents, beware how you misuse them. — It Savours of ingratitude, my dear, and that is literally the vorst of crimes; you should be thankful for the blessings you enjoy, and use them to assist your Sellow creatures, and not insult them, because they are less happy than yoursels. — I think your uncle John rather to blame with regard to the education of your
cousin— —
RAVENSWORTH. 115
_ _ > > cousm. — Maybe the lad’s abilities are
better than you imagine: — you should
always endeavour to look on the most
favourable Side.
Your uncle, I Sear, thro’ too great a fondness for money, has made his Sort appear in a less atniable light, than he could otherwise, perhaps, have done; his havino; married a woman, rather in the
O '
lower class of life, has not, I doubt, added to the brightness of the young man’s genius : tommy’s own mother died when he was very young; and my Son, by takinc: to his Second wife a farmer’s daug b
O O
ter, has disobliged Mr. Ravensworth So much, that he never could be prevailed on to see him again. However, he is inclined to be very fond of his grandson; and I am Sorry, he is likely to make So bad a figure: his mother in law, though
V
rather of a vulgar extraction, makes both a good wife and mother. And if So,
EM4LY, how infinitely are, those requi
'\
vol. I. I Sitef
h4
fltes to be esteemed in a married life, before beauty and fortune; not, but I think it is most eligible, when they all join; but if they are only to be had Separately the former is undoubtedly of the most value.
You tell me, my dear child, that you cannot think of marrying your cousm Dick; recollect yourself, my love; tho’ God Sorbidy that I should ever think of forcing your inclinations, yet I most stncerely wish, to see you happily Settled before I die; an event, my Emily, which j according to the common course of nature, cannot be a great way off.
What objection have you to your cousin? He is, as far as I can judge of him, fenlible, good-natured, and accomplished; and a fine figure, every one must allow him. Perhaps, my dear, it is Some little pique you have taken against him,, which, it is possible,, may wear ff: perhaps you do not as yet, Emily,
know
MISS ravensworth. ii
know your own mind. I know, my dear girl is now and then apt to be: a little giddy — take my advice for once; try him for two or three months longer before you give him an absolute denial; and if at the end of that time you continue in the Same mind, I will freely give up all thoughts of Seeing you united; tho’ at the Same time, if it could be to your mutual Satisfaction, I know nothing would make me more truly happy.
I am glad you behaved So prudently with regard to Captain Crosby; let miss seagrove’s fate be a warning to you, how you enter too rashly into engagements,
without the knowledge of your
%
friends, .and take care how you fix yoiir affections on an unworthy object : there is no medium in the marriage state to Suf
O
ceptible minds; you are either happy'' or miserable for life.
How careful ought we to be then, in making Such., a choice: but I dare Say,
I 2 my
<• >9
A
ii
*%
my lovsj I need not caution you against Such imprudence; you are a good girl, and love me too well to make me miserable by an improper conduct, in So material a point; and tho’ I would by no means force your inclinations, yet I should wish to be consulted, and allowed a negative voice, in case I Saw you going to commit a deed which might tend to make you unhappy to the end of your days. You know I would not control you, my dear Emily, in anything that is likely to give you Satisfaction; but young people are too apt Sometimes to be led away by appearances, and the consequences of Such deception generally prove fatal. From Such kind of evils, with the assistance of the Almighty, without whom all our resolves are vain, I
. ^. f „ \
would guard my dear granddaughter;; as she has given her word, which I know she holds Sacred, I shall depend upon the performance of her promise, the mornent
she discovers the least change in her heart
'/■ #
m
• 17
in Savour of any man whatever, that she will acquaint me with it. I am now called to attend your poor grandfather, who i’m afraid is really worse. Adieu, my dear girl; my prayers and blessings attend you, and believe me to be
Your affectionate grandmother, Elizabeth Ravensworth.
LET T E R XII
r
Miss Seagrove to miss Danby.
Rejoice wish me, my dear Charlotte, we have got our Emily again: Mr. Ravensworth has been extremely ill, and she has left Mrs. Clayton, who is now out of danger, to come and attend upon him. She was So agitated with the news of her grandfather’s danger, and in Such a hurry to leave town, as soon as she had received Mrs. ravensworth’s letter, which informed her of it, shat, she says, she never once thought of
I 3 wmting
«
, ii
waiting upon you, till she was almost at It » • •) when she did not think it quite So convenient to turn back for that purpose.
She has never been in bed since she came; and by her excessive care, Mr. Ravensworth has today, for the first ji.me, quitted his. He is So pleased with her for her uncommon tenderness and
I
"s
assiduity (which between you and I has,
t
I Sincerely believe. Saved his lise, as Mrs. Ravensworth herself is too old and infi.rm to be of any assistance to him; and miss Patty, by her neglect, endea 'voured rather to increase his disorder than .otherwise) that I dare Say, she has gained So great an influence over him, I need no longer Sear an information being made against me to my father and mother.
She brought home with her Dicky Ravensworth, and a Cousin Tommy. Such a booby, my dear; I believe you never Saw. a greater curiostty than he is ii your life,
I
  iig
He does nothing but eat from morning till nio ht — Tho’i should leave it to Emily
o
to give you a description of his character; I believe no pen but her own is capable of doing him justice.
He detests Aunt Patty, and whenever she contradicts him, always threatens to kick a certain part about her, which shall be nameless— — is very fond of both his (eousins, and is almost in love with Miss Harriot Manning; and aster all, he is both handsome and good-natured : if he had but a better understanding, or a little more polishing, he would be passable as the world goes. f
His cousin has given him a taste for finery, and his whole discourfe (when eating is out of the cafe) runs upon embroidered waistcoats and laced deaths.
He has been today upstairs, for his first visit, to his grandfather; he was eating Some bread and butter, when the Summons was Sent for him to attend the
I 4 old
/
1
4
'f
ft

*
izo
old gentleman. Mrs. Ravensworth desired him to lay it down, and finish the remainder at his return; but he Said, he; chose to carry it with him, nor could all our persuafions induce him to part .with it,. ' .....
k
; Away he went, with his face greased tip to the eyes, and stamped upstairs like a coach horse. Emily met him at the door; For shame. Tommy, Says she, what a noise you make! bless me, you are eating again too; lay down your bread and butter, and make your appearance a little decently. — Wounds! you’re plaguy nice, methinks; do you think I don’t know how to behave myself, as well as you can tell me? Finding it was in vain to oppose him, she Suffered him to enter.
Mr. Ravensworth shook his head
at his appearance, tho’ he had been prepared for it before — So, Tommy, says he, how happens it you did not come to
See
', i *
....,
I
A
 21
see us Sooner? I hear you have been in this part of the world Some time.
Nay, as for the matter of that, says Tommy, I ha’ant been aboun three weeks in all; and So I thought, as father told me, this was an odd out ost way plaice, I maight as well go to London first, and See the lyons and Poles, and sich like curiosities, as not; and I thout I Should have time enough in conscience to Spend with you and cousins bestdes.
Well — and you are eating, I See too. Says the old man; did you not get your breakfast with the rest of the family?
. Aye, says he, but I generally make. it a rule to get a nuncheon or two asore
dinner.
* • •
Well, Tommy, it’s a sign you have good health, however, when you eat So heartily.
No, sir. Says he, you’re woundily out there, for i’fe Sorely troubled wi’t worms; i’ll upho’d you, is I, Worms, Says '
Emily,
s
\
122
Emily, the gnawing worms, I imagine. Did ever mortal hear Such an ass?
You may be less free of your neames, howsomever, miss Pert, returned he; but I tell you I is troubled wist worms, and vary Sairly too; I have ta’en a deal of Sugar plumbs, and they’ve de’un me a vast: o’ good. Do you think I knows not what Iste Saying on? (By the way, young Ravensworth Says, he is always quacking himself, and that you may persuade him he is absolutely dying of any disorder you think proper to mention.)
Yes indeed. Tommy, Says Mr. Ravensworth, you Seem to be a very Senstble young man; however, as I am rather inclinable to steep at present, I will excuse your company till by and by.
Why, Says Tommy, I wishes you better; and dov/n>hc came, and Soon after him Emily, who gave us, in her humorous way, an account of the whole dialogue. The next letter you have from
mey'
 23
.me, my dear Charlotte, it is very probable, Emily will be the bearer of, as I imagine she will return to Mrs. clayr TONNE, as Soon as Mr. Ravensworth is well enough to get downstairs. She has not Said much yet to miss Patty : her grandfather’s indispofition has So wholly employed her time and attention, that we hardly ever See her but at meal times. Adieu, my dear Charlotte; if you ever see my Harry, remember me to him, and tell him to hope the best. Oh! Charlotte, if he should prove unfaithful, it will for ever destroy the peace of
Your affectionate
Henrietta Seagrove.
LETTER XIII
miss Ravj: nsworth to Miss Danby.
I AM to write to you, my dear miss Danby, to acquaint you that our dear sienrietta is, at present, incapable of 'A', performing
\
i54-
performing that office herfeis. She is really very. far from being well;; as her indispofition proceeds in a great measure from a perturbation of Spirits, occasioned by the unexpected arrival of her father and mother here yesterday; I hope, that two or three days will reestablish her health again, as firmly as ever.
With much difficulty was our old virgin compelled to silence, with regard to our sweet friend; but, however, the strict injunctions of my grandfather, and the combination of the whole family joined, so effectually answered our purpose, that the old folks remain still ignorant of what our piece of antiquity so earnestly wished to acquaint them with : I need explain myself no farther; you know the affair of Captain Crosby.
Indeed ’ I rnuch fear, miss Danby, that our Hennyst wishes will never be accomplished; Mr. and Mrs. Seagrove Seem determinately bent to oppose them;
and •
 2^
and I know their daughter’s amiable dispo sttion too well, to suppose that she will ever marry without their consents. Not, but I must at the Same time allure you, if the, young gentleman was at all worthy of her, and I had the Smallest: influence, S would use the utmost eloquence I was mistress of, in persuading her to run away, and please herself in a matter which, in fact:, she alone is concerned in. But shall I tell you, miss Danby? — I don’t think this Captain Crosby, will ever make her happy. From the little knowledge you have of me yourself, and more you may have heard from your friend, you may be assured I should not talk in this manner without Some Substantial reasons. — What those reasons are, it is not necessary to declare. I only Sincerely wish miss Seagrove happy, and am asraid she stands but little chance for it, from the quarter she expects : she is a most amiable and agreeable girl, and deserves a more Sincere and Saithful lover,
1x6
I can’t think V hat end her parents Cast' propose, in leaving her here So long; — they think she is out of the way of her lover. — What, then — they can’t think to detain her with us for ever; and she stands the same chance of feeing him again, when she returns to London, let that be when it will. I dread lest they should have Some other match in view for her; in Such a cafe, I would not answer for her life. Oh 1 Miss Danby, what a shocking thing it is to be troubled •with tyrannical parents? Surely, nature never meant to give them so extensive a power over us, as the generality of them unjustly usurp. Well — I will never be controlled in my Choice of a husband, that’s pos; Lord, the matrimonial pill i hard enough to Swallow at any rate. What, in the name of Liberty, must it be when we are obliged to take it by constraint? Horrid — 'No — Henny shall never be forced. i’m determined; i’ll turn.
4 •,
.■ Knight
*
RAVENSWORTH. iay
knight errant in her defence myself lirsh Is it not a pity, I was not a Spectator of the listenins" Scene? Slow delighted shouldi I have been, to have defeated the cunning of our stale piece of hypocrisy; tho’, I think, we have got one in the house that trims her off to Some purpose : A cousirt of mine, miss Danby, Master Tommy, Henny Says, She has mentioned him to you besore. We had a curious Scene yesterday, a little besore the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Seagrove.
He has taken it into his head, to fall most desperatcly in love with miss Harriot Manning; and as the only way he has of expreitmg his passion, is dictated by pure nature; So, whenever he has an opportunity of finding her alone, he lays his paws upon her, and khscs the poor girl till she is terrified out of her senses. •
o
Yesterday he found her in a walk in the garden, and began his courtship in the usual strain; Vvhen he vas interrupted
by
«
» m
r.
128 THE HISTORY 6f
by miss Patty — So, very fine. Sir, — * very fine. ma’am, — these are pretty kind of doings upon my word; I shall go in and alk my father tho’, if he is contented, to allow this sort of behaviour.
Wounds, says Tom, you may go and be hanged, an you like; don’t come troubling us with your old maidish gibberish; who cares a f.. t for you, think vou?
J
At this delicate Speech, Mrs. martha’s Sury almost exceeded all bounds : — You good for nothing blockheaded booby. Says she. Till teach you to talk to me in this insolent strain; i’ll have you turned out of the house this instant, you nasty oas, I will.
As for being good for nothing, I hope Iste not so like yourself as that comes to neither, our old miss; and as for your neames, look ye, keep them to yourself, and give them to those that want’em, for if you call me any more, I shall have
a woundy
MISS RAVENSVSORTH. 129
%
a woundy mind to kick better manners into you. What a dickens do you mean by your jav/? — Nasty, quoth a’ — Egad, I would not be as nasty as Some Solks are, for all the Indies are worth— — dialogue was here interrupted, by a servant’s coming to acquaint them with the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Seagrove; or elfe, I question but it might have ended in a downright battle.
This vras fresh cause of vexation for miss Pat, as it prevented her from proclaiming the caiise of her wrath, till the departure of the company. — Poor Henny, when the coach drove up, vas very
V
near fainting; and it was near half an hour, before she vas able, with the assistance of my arm, to get downstairs.
They received her very affectionately: Mrs. Seagrove herfeif see.ns to be a good-natured woman, but there is Something very odd in her behaviour to her daughter; she never Seems to interfere vol. I. K with
130
with her in the least; no more than if she was an absolute stranger. — Mr. Seagrove indeed Seems to be master, in
every sense of the word, and makes his
%
wife neither more nor less than a mere cypher. — Oh! how affronting that is, miss Danby : I should never out live the being treated with So little consequence. What a Sweet helpmate should I make to one of these important tyrants? i’m enchanted at the thoughts of it. — If ever fate should place me in Such a Situation, (which, by the way, I don’t intend it ever shall) how I should enjoy the opportunity of revenging feme of my own Sex, by thwarting and breaking the hearts of two or three of those despotic wretches, who vainly give themselves the titles of our lords and masters : depend upon it, if ever my inclinations should Suffer the least constraint, I shall be as good as my word. But to return to our company.
Mr,
I
MSSS ravensworth. 131
Mr. Seagrove hoped his daughter had Conducted herself very well, during her stay at H... — (oh! how I dote upon Such a pretty infantine expression) and had given none of the family any cause of complaint against her.'
My grandfather, who has j ust got downstairs after a severe illness, and is at present inclined to be very good-natured; Said, That miss Seagrove was a very discreet young lady; and he wished that his family might have acquitted themselves as much to her Satisfaction, as she had done to theirst.
Our sweet friend blushed her thanks; I Smiled mine; and miss Patty tossed up her head, with a Significant look of her eyes (which, had they been observing her, could not have escaped their notice).
I, who vas Sitting next her, whispered her. Aunt Patty, i’m afraid you are not well, child, your face looked strangely distorted just now; you’re not going into
K 2 convwl.
152
convulsions, I hope. — Cease your impertinence miss, or leave the room. — No, my Sweet maiden. Says I, I am not tired of our company yet; if you are, I would recommend that remedy for yourself, as you Seem not to be in a humour for conversation.
My grandfather hearing a kind of dispute between us, desired to know what was the matter.
The matter is. Sir, answered I, of too much consequence, to be divulged at present. Aunt Patty is troubled with an incurable disease, which the mention of always increases; So I shall keep it for your private ear, if you are not Sufficiently acquainted with it already.
disease, cries Cymon, (you guess who he is, I suppose) I shure, if you had Seen her this morning, you’d have blessed yourself, and thouht her stark staring mad;
I was only kissing this young lady .a bit,
(turning to Harriot, who blushed Scarlet
4
0
 33
let deep) and she fell upon me in Such a fury, I thought she was going out of her wits — it’s my belief she begrudged them. If I had not been her nephew, I should have fancied she was in a passion, because I was not kissing of she, —
Sir, Said she, turning to her father, do you. Suffer me to be perpetually plagued with the insolence of your insufferable grandchildren— — can bear it no longer — I am determined not to be teased after so abominable a manner. So Saying, she burst: into tears, and left the room : but not till she had heard a delicate expression of cymon’s — The more you cry, the less you’ll do Something else, and So your tears will never hurt you.
However, he got a kind of reprimand for his unpolished behaviour; and very little more was Said till after tea; when our visitors went away, telling Henny, that they should Send for her to London again ere long.
K 3 And
t
13  And now, my dear miss Danby, I 
find it time to conclude, with assuring you, that I shall See you in London in a few days; and that at my return to H..., which will be as Soon as I have persormed the office of god mother to Mrs. clayton’s little one, I Shall hope for the pleasure of your agreeable company, according to a promise made by both miss Danby and her good Aunt, to whom I beg to be remembered; and that you will believe me your affectionate friend, and obedient humble Servant,
Emily Ravensworth,
LETTER XIV
Captain Crosby,
To Charles Downing, esq;
Excuse me, my dear Charles, for my long Silence, and lament with me the cause of it. — Alas, my friend, I have not been myself; I am no
longer
• 4
%
 35
longer worthy of calling you by so respectable a name. — You who are so firmly attached to the strictest principles of, honour! how shall I dare to disclose to you the secrets of my heart, after having forfeited all title to them my feist — And yet I must begin; for from your friendly advice alone, can I ever hope to extricate my fel st
I mentioned to you my honourable engagements with Miss Seagrove, and the uncommon friendsliip I had experienced from young Ravensworth. < — How little did I deserve the regard of either of them?
Ravensworth, at the hazard of disobliging his whole family, procured me at a ball, an interview with my (till then) beloved Henrietta; but at the same time brought me acquainted with a divinity, it has ever since been my misfortune to adore.
This angel is a cousin of his own, to whom he has for Some time been contracted
K 4 with
13
with the consent of all their friends, and with whom (as indeed, hov/ can he avoid it) he is violently in love.
Do you not already, Charles, begin to condemn me? — ’tis too soon yet; the movements of the heart are involuntary, and hitherto I have told you only, that I loved, — You will Say, I ought immediately to have stifled this growing inclination, and ever after have avoided the cause of it; this, my dear friend, I know would have been your conduct; but, pity
I
my weakness, Charles, I found it impossible.
I could not even disguife my coolness from the penetrating eyes of Miss Seagrove; her pride would not Suffer her to reproach me with it, but I could See she was sensibly affected by it. — Ravensworth alone remained unsuspecting. — Shall I own to you, that I took advantage of his Security, and betrayed the confidence he placed in me, after having
received
f
.  37
received from him the strongest marks
9
of friendship, conferred in a manner that increased my obligations; let me own my crime.
He charged me, when I had an opportunity of being alone ‘with his cousin, to Sound her inclinations for him, by telling her, that he was taken ill, and would not, perhaps, be able to See her of Some days. Instead of which,. I pleaded my own passion, and endeavoured to prejudice her against him, by telling her, that he was no longer worthy of her love,. Since he Sought to gain that of another
O
woman.
Hovrcver, Charles, as a dishonourable action is Seldom attended with success,
A 7
I received as a reward for my ingratitude, the most mortifying reproaches from the enraged erv iilv; vrho is most tenderly attached to miss Seagrove, and So heartily despises me for my infidelity, that she has banished me her Sight for ever.
After
138
After this, I, by appointment, met miss Seagrove at a stolen place of rendezvous, by the contrivance of young ..Ravensworth; the consequence was a discovery, which no doubt has involved them all in the most perplexing difficulties.
You See now, my dear friend, in how very blameable a manner I have acted. —
You will condemn me, and I know I deserve it; but let me affure you, I have so Sar Subdued myself, that I am now absolutely determined to fulfil my engagements with miss Seagrove : and reason (if reason had anything to do with love) would certainly make her the object of my choice. You know I am of a Sentimental turn, Charles; and Ihe is posteffed of all that delicacy and tenderness, and all those amiable qualifications, that render the matrimonial state desirable.
After this description of Henrietta,
and your perfect knowledge of my disposition,
A ^
f • \
• ' '
■r s
*• *
%
f
0
 39
position, will you not be amazed that my ■affections Should have wandered from her to the most insenfible little coquet in nature t a woman, who regards our Sex but as So many creatures born for her use, to Setch and carry like her lapdog, to be always in whatever humour She pleases; and in short, who, if she married, would love her husband but in the same degree with her monkey, and per* haps, not pay him half so much attention.
I can easdy, Charles, imagine your astonishment at your friend’s unaccountable peiuchant for Such a woman / but I may venture at the Same time to affure you, that you are not one jot more Surprised at it than myself; in one word, as I told you before, there is no Such thing as accounting for inclination. Though I
I
know I should not be happy with her, yet if my eternal ruin was to be the immediate consequence of it, and I could obtain her consent, I would marry her tomorrow.
But
j40
But that being impossible, I will endeavour to obtain a victory over my refractory heart, and once more recommence the man of honour; (a character which I Batter myself I never forfeited till now) and Since I have not carried matters too far to retrieve, Serioully determine upon amendment. Strengthen me with your advice in this pious resolution, Charles,
and believe me
Your affectionate friend,
Henry Crosby.
%
#
LETTER XV
Miss Seagrove to Miss Danby.
G|.NCE more, my dear Charlotte, ^ we have losc our agreeable Emily,
O ’
and you again enjoy a pleasure I most Sincerely envy you; the pleasure of feeing her, and being entertained with her lively conversation. — I suppose you will receive this from her hands,
I have
«
 41
• I have been very ill, or she would have returned to town Sooner, but am now greatly recovered. She tells me, she leaves cousin Tommy, by way of comforter to me, and is very Sure I cannot miss her while I have So entertaining a companion. How do you think they have Served Aunt Patty, Charlotte?
Tommy being prodigiouhy affronted with her, for being a tell pie, as he calls it, she having discovered him making love to poor Harriot Manning, contrived a Scheme with young Ravensworth to go into her room one morning before she was up, and try to put her into a passion, in which if they Succeeded, (which to her Sorrow they too easily did) they were to _ take her up bed and baggage and carry her into the garden by way of cooler.
This they did, my dear, and she was found there in bed by Mr. Ravensworth bimself, to his great astonishment, you may be Sure. r~ Indeed it vras Some time
besore
/
/
I
i
%
142
before he could believe either his eyes of his ears. So thunderstruck was he at the droll appearance she made — He came into the house just as we were all going to breakfast; every soul of us females (even Emily) ignorant of this affain
Pray, says he, which of you was it that laid my daughter Patty in the garden f
Patty in the garden, interrupted Mrs Ravensworth; what can you mean, my dear?
Mean, replied he, why, I mean that Somebody has taken her, bed and all, and placed her out of doors upon she grass plat.
Mr. Ravensworth, says she, you are dreaming, my dear, it’s impossible— — all stared, you may be Sure, and the two young men looked extremely grave. — ^ God bless me. Sir, Says Emily, what do you mean? Aunt Patty in bed in the garden! We just missed her at breakfast,
and were going to send upstairs for her.
<
Look
 4j Look ye. Says Mr. Ravensworth, I
am very much mistaken if you have not had a hand in this affair; as for her, Ihe was in Such a rage (as indeed stie well might) that She could not make me understand who it was; but is some of you don’t release her immediately, she will catch her death of cold — I cannot send the menservants to Setch her in Such a sttuation; you must Some of you carry her clothes, and dress her before she comes in.
Ay, ay, that i’ll do, says Emily, with all my heart; who could not now Sorbear • laughing at the oddity of the design, whoever it was that had executed it. She then ran upstairs, and fetched an under pet ticoat, bed gown, c. for Aunt Pat, and away we all walked to the place where she was laid. — It was now impossible to refrain from an immoderate burst of laughter: conceive to yourself, my dear,
how ridiculous a figure she must make; all description on my part would be vain.
144 YHE history OF
Emily Spoke first — Good morning to you. Aunt Patty : you have changed your apartment, I find; don’t you think
it almost time to rise?
• •
No words could' describe the Sury of the enraged virgin : she loaded us all with invectives, which Served only to increase the ridicule of the whole; and indeed Harriot and I could not restrain our
A • • • • •
stives within any Sort of bounds.
Pray, says Emily very gravely, while she was helping her to dress, don’t you think your virtue was in Some Small danger here. Aunt Patty? I wonder you should chuse a place So exposed by way of steeping in: I question whether your strength could have made Sufficient resistance, in cafe the gardeners had been tempted to commit a rape — And how they could resist So tempting an object, is to me .amazing! But perhaps they have not Seen you — Ah! if they had. Aunt Patty, you’d certainly have been ravished —
don’t
%
* ‘
  i45
^ ^
Donst you shudder at the thoughts of the danger you have undergone? — In this manner did she tease the forlorn damsel all the time she was dressing her, and when that was done, we prepared to attend her into the house; and now a difficulty occurred to Miss Patty which shocked
✓
her beyond measure — Hitherto she had remained there unknown to any of the > Servants — i but how to get the bed in f —
I
that puzzled her extremely — she could not bear the thoughts of their knowing
■I
her disgrace.
However it was unavoidable, and emily^s maid; with Mrs. ravensworth’s, were dispatched to fetch it in; with strict charge not to mention it among the other servants.
And now, when Miss patty was dressed, and made her appearance in the parlour, the murder all came out, and the young gentlemen were Severely taken to talk; but they absolutely denied having vol. I. E any
14
any Sort of hand in it, and very feriouhy recommended it to their aunt to say her prayers, as they were perfectly convinced that the evil spirits had been busy with her in the night, and deceived her by false appearances into a belief of it’s being them. This increased her fury beyond measure; and had not the old gentleman with an absolute tone commanded Silence on all stdes, I question but she would have gone into fits with rage.
Mr. Ravensworth forbid them both the house, but they did not Seem in an hurry to obey his orders; tho’ young Ravensworth is now gone to town with his cousin, but Tommy remains with us. Write to me Soon, my dear, and believe me
Your affectionate friend,
^ *
H. Seagrove.
 47
LETTER XVI
miss Ravensworth to miss Seagrove.
Yes, my dear, I have delivered your letter punctually. Till affure you, and I have Seen Somebody. — Who do you think, Henny? — No body you care for to be Sure; Captain Crosby is a person of very little consequence in the eyes of miss Seagrove, I know. — And yet the poor wretch is dying, Henny, absolutely in despair, for fear he should never more behold the lustre of those fine eyes which have wounded him So mortally. — Poor thing, don’t you pity him, my dear?
I ventured to promise him a Small dose of compassion on your part, provided he would endeavour to bear that load of life which at present is So troublesome to him, for a short Space longer. Oh I these lovers are tiresome beings. — ^ how can one possibly hear the Same dull story over and ver again ten million times, and not detest
L 2 both
i
both the tale and the teller? I am absolutely lick of the very name of Love : — I wissi there was no Such word in the dictionary. — Could we not contrive to have it struck out, think you? — together with the whole catalogue of dying Speeches, formed for no other purpose, than to give one an absolute Surfeit of the creatures that make use of them, by way of recommendation. Oh! of all things good Lord deliver me from a love tale : but what stgnifies talking in a rational style to irrational beings? I warrant you now, you would not be without this same sensible passion for the world; hey, Henny. —
m
Ay, there it is now, I suppose, while I am pitying you, my stghing friend, you are stncerely defpistng me for my infenstbility.
And you really glory in your penchant for this pretty fellow, do you,, my dear r x: Well — I see you are incorrigible, and all good advice from the Sober matronly Emiiy, being thrown away upon you, I
will
$
A
 49
will proceed with giving you an account of my own adventures.
Numerous as the attractions of your
friend are, my sweet Henny, do not
_ /'
wonder that she is teased to death with
✓
admirers; but Such a lover! A loris, miss Seagrove. — I would not have you be envious; but to be Sure he is a jewel of a man, quite of the. pea green pattern. i’ll affure you — Oh! I die at the thoughts of being my Lady Wilton, with a coach and Six, and covered with diamonds from head to foot.
don’t you think this a more eligible Scheme, my dear, than marrying a country Squire, and being plain Mrs. Ravensworth all the days of one’s life? Hold your tongue, Henny, I know what you are going to say; cousm Dicky is a fine gentleman — Oh! I know he thinks himself so; but for all that he is in fact neither more nor less than a downright country Squire; I am determdncd to call
L 3 him
150
him So, and therefore be quiet, miss Seagrove, and don’t interrupt me any more —. What, shall it be Said, that the gay, the lively Emily, so every way cut out to shine in the character of a peeress, shall Submit to end her days in obscurity, when she has So fine an opportunity of making Some eclat in the world? No, no. Vanity forbid,
’tis true, this Same Lord Wilton has the character of a rake. — Why — So much the better; I shall have the honour of reclaiming him; reformed rakes you know, my dear, make the best husbands. Now do I See you putting on a grave Sace, and Saying : — Why, Surely, this girl’s distracted— — of being able to reform a husband, she wants a Sober grave man to work a reformation in herseis. — Do you think So, my dear? — Oh, Henny, Henny, pray don’t be a prude : — You know nothing of the matter. You Sentimental ladies all run a most violent risque
of
 51
of leading apes. — Tm afraid, in Spite of this same Captain Crosby, your doom is fixed for a Single life; you’ll certainly Sentiment yourself into that thing called an old maid. — Shall I give you a definition of the word Sentiment? I love to, be concise, Henny; i’ll give it you in one. word — A Sentimental woman, according to my ideas of things, (which I acknowledge to be different from the generality of ideas now extant) is neither more nor less than a downright prude. — Delicacy and Sentiment! mere words of course, child .pray have nothing at all to do with them. i’m afraid, my dear, you are not calcm lated to shine in high life; poor Delicacy would cut a shocking figure in the beau monde. After all, Shall I, or shall I not, have this Same lord for better for worse till
death us do part r Strong temptations are hard to be refilled; if I conquer my penchant for being a lady, I shall think my seis an absolute philosopher.
L 4 And
152
And now, Henny, before you give your advice, you are curious to be acquainted with the circumstances which introduced me to this right honourable beau, together with his figure, address, c. Well, Henny, you shall be Satisfied.
I met him, my dear, in the park; I Was walking there with miss Danby and Cousin Dicky. He being an acquaintance of the latter’s, joined us; and my bright eyes have so powerfully attracted him ever since, that he has Scarce ever been absent from us.
Yesterday he made me a formal declaration of the most ardent passion, that ever inspired the breast of man; talked much of flames and darts, and vowed he should
never be able to Survive my cruelty; but Sooner than Suffer the excruciating torments which would be the undoubted consequence of my disdain, he would put a Speedy end to an existence, which without me would be rendered insupportable.
This
\
t
 53
This Specimen is Sufficient, Henny; you know I am remarkably compassionate, and you are not ignorant how I dote upon these kind of die away Speeches : you can’t doubt then but I was quite complying and good-natured. To See now how people may be mistaken. Louie au contraire, upon honour; don’t be Surprised, my dear, a lady of my whimsical genius is liable to change you know. I burst out a lau2; h ing, told him, fate had been unkind to, the stage, in making a lord of one who Seemed So every way calculated for the buskin; thought he was quite a hero, thanked him for the diversion he had afforded me, and whenever I found myself inclinable to the vapours, would Send for ’ him by way of antidote.
. ’ t
He was rather disconcerted at my method of answering him, and was going to proceed with assurances of love and fidelity; but I begged of him not to over fatigue himself, I had got enough for one
dpse;
r I
j5
.dose; and rising, with an immoderate fit of laughter, left the room.
I entertained Mrs. Clayton for Some time vvith this Scene, and was strongly tempted, to have afforded a little diversion to cousin Dicky; but was afraid the
I
wretch should presume upon my cruelty to his lordship; and I was likewise fearful, he should resent the peer’s unfortunate tender for me, and I intend to be adored a little longer, before I permit him to be run thro’ the body on my account.
Mr. Clayton is gone out of town; his wife has got downstairs, and Sees company. Your charming Charlotte is often with us; and if I don’t mistake, there is Something in her eyes she can’t conceal in favour of young Ravensworth. I Sincerely wish, I could See them happy together, for I positively never mean to marry him mysels.
Her aunt Seems to be a good-natured woman; she laughs Sometimes at my little
Sallies,
«
 55
Sallies, and Seems not to have forgot, that she was once young herseis.
There is an old maid too in the family,
(you know who I mean, I suppose) the
\
housekeeper, that tells Charlotte, I am the most handsomest young lady that ever she Seed in all her life. I plague her Sometimes about her virginity, but she takes it all in good part, tho’ I endeavour to per r fuade her, that she is often mortified at it. You know I have declared open war against all antiquated virgins, for the sake of our Antique at home; but this Seems ' uncommonly good-natured, r Sent for in. a hurry — What can be the matter? excuse me, miss Seagrove, Twill return and finish my letter as Soon as possible.
IN continuation.
Oh! Henny, i’m in Such a flutter. So
A
overjoyed! — What do you.think was
4
the occasion of my being interrupted? — Neither more nor less, my dear, than an
invitation
156
invitation to a masquerade, which is to be given by one of Mrs, Clayton's acquaintance a fortnight hence: by that time she will be able to accept it, and we shall go.
I posttively am not able to write any more; Oh I hov/ shall I wish this fortnight over. I must instantly go and con sult about a dress, to display my charms to the greatest advantage. Adieu, Henny, I shall neither think nor dream of anything but masquerades till the time comes; Tis given by a man of great fashion.
I _
Your friend, miss Danby, will be there; for Mrs. Clayton is desired, to carry any' of her acquaintance she shall think proper.
I
I wish I could get leave to have your company, Henny. — But I had forgot, I am talking to the Sober miss Seagrove.
9 •
I dare Say, you had rather enjoy one half hour’s conversation with your Harry, than go to the most brilliant assembly in England without him.
 57
I pity your taste, my dear; for no hus band in the world, I am perfectly per suaded, could be of half the consequence to me, as this delightful masquerade.
Oh I dear, I had forgot to tell you too, that my young Barrister has been to See me, who danced with me at colonel hornby’s; he is stghing here for ever too. — • But I lose time, while I am talking about
4
these creatures, who are too much honour ed by my mentioning their names, tho’' even by way of abustng them. Once more adieu, my dear Henny, and believe me stncerely yours,
Emily Ravensworth,
• »
LETTER XVII
Miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Ravensworth.
/
I AM so totally at a loss, my deaf madam, for any kind of Subject, wherewith to entertain you, that I believe I
stiould

should acquit myself with more honour by an absolute silence, than by an awkward attempt to compose an epistle vrithout any kind of matter to work on. One thing, however, I must tell you, by way of contradiction to a former letter you received from me about captain Crossy, which is, that I believe he is once more become
t
worthy of my dear Henrietta, He has expressed a Sincere penitence for his crime, appears really concerned at his Separation from miss Seagrove; and I once more wish it was in my power to promote their mutual happiness.
I think it is not impossible for you and my grandfather to persuade Mr. Sea -- GROVE to give his consent. — Oh! my dear madam, if there is any chance for success, let your Emily make it her request to the best of parents, to use her ut most endeavours towards making that amiable girl happy. She is certainly deserving of a better fate; and I can never be
perfectly
  f0
perfectly at ease myself, wdiile I know her worthy heart is Suffering the most acute, affliction.
I don’t know what this Same love is, and I do really hope I never shall; for I never Saw any one who felt it yet, but they were miserable. To be Sure all things are possible;; it Seems to me the most unlikely of all events, that ever I should fall in love: and yet I have got a lord for an adorer, and he has almost persuaded me that I am a goddess.
Really, madam, I think I am very much cut out for her Ladyship; and if the man that is tacked to the title was but a little more agreeable, cousm Dick would stand a worse chance than ever he did in his lise; tho’, heav’n knows, his affairs were never in a very flourishing Situation,
As it is, I believe I am in no great danger; my heart is guarded with a tolerable share of indifference and contempt for the pretty jewels, who take So much pains to conquer it.
»
\
io
I have made a new acquaintance since I came to town, a lady just come out of the country; a relation of Mrs. clayton’s, her name Sandham : a most asreeable
o
woman; but She wears a kind of dejection upon her countenance, which always makes me melancholy when I see her; and fills me with a kind of impertinent curiosity we women are famous for being troubled with.
I fancy tho’, I need not go far to Seek the cause, as she has got a husband who is the greatest brute in nature, and who uses her most Scandaloufly: the time I have been acquainted with them, I never Saw him Sober; tho’ it is but Seldom we have the honour of his company, he choosing that generally among journeymen tailors and shoemakers. You may imagine, how Such a behaviour must depress the spirits of a woman of real Sentiment, which she Seems to be.
She was, I suppose, forced into the match by a mother, whose obstinacy and barbarity
• ^
MISS Ravensworth. ids
barity has no equal. I long to know more of her history, as I really find mysels in terested for her; and, as I imagine, I by this time may have inspired you with the Same curiosity, I will acquaint you with
4
every circumstance about her, as Soon as I come to the knowledge of it: and, with your leave, if I can procure her company, without that of her nauseous husband, I \vill give her an invitation to our house at
H
X JL • •
Adieu, my dear madam, I beg to' be respectfully remembered to my grandfather, and am
Your dutiful and affectionate
Emily Ravensworth,
LETTER XVIIL
(
Miss Danby to miss Seagrove.
f
Alas, my dear, my amiable friend,
how can I sit down to tell you th?
%
melancholy news, with which after all you
voli, le M must
/ »• *
*. ►
>
z,
must: be made acquainted : Oh! Henny^ my dear Henny, our Emily — How stiall I proceed? — Our amiable Emily is lost; no one can give any account of her; she is gone, perhaps, forever.
Mr. Clayton and young Ravensworth, who were entrusted with the care of her, are half distracted; but I will endeavour to recollect myself, and give a full account of this unfortunate affair,, just as it happened.
. Mrs. Clayton was invited to a mas querade given by the Earl of G...; and with her was to carry what acquaintance
I
she thought proper. Our charming Emily was elated beyond measure at the thoughts of it; and at length, the wished for day arrived.
Mrs. Clayton, Emily, myself, young Ravensworth, and a young Barrister, who is an admirer of emily’s, and whose name is Mr. Oakham, were the party.
_ _ r
We went in chairs, miss Ravens
#

I
 65
Worth habited like Fortune, myself like a Nun, Mrs. Clayton a (^aker, young Ravensworth like a Harlequin, and Mr. Oakham a Shepherd.
There was a large company; and to me who never Saw Such a thin before,
o ^
the whole Seemed to make a most eleorant
o
appearance. I am not in Spirits to tell
you, all the witty things that were Said
%
upon the vshimlical dress of our young friend; numerous were the requests made to Mrs. Fortune; but this is not a time to give you an account of them. '
A young Gentleman in a blue domino came up to her, and alked her. If ssie .could help him to a good wife, sensible, pretty, and good-natured. I don’t know whether Something in the tone of his voice, fatality or what other motive induced her to it, but certainly, instead of answering him in that style of raillery which she did all the rest, she Softened her manner of address, and Said; — Why
M 2 indeed.
164 TSIE HISTORY OK
indeed, you have made the moss: rational petition I have heard tonight, and I am Something inclinable to favour you, were it in my power; • but, pray my young. Spark, where do you think to meet with a damsel possessed of all these qualifications? — Sensible, pretty, and good-natured 1 — How can you think to find a Being which never existed? — - You should. have a wife made on purpose for you: bestdes, how can you prove yourself entitled to Such a woman? — A man, as men go now,. Says she, was he to be, matched according to his deserts,. would meet with a mighty indifferent kind of helpmate,,
Says be, I know but of one way to be happy then, and that is by marrying fortune herfeif: She can always bestow happiness when she pleases; and in return, I will present her with a heart incapable of change. — I will always be devoted to her. alone, and study by my
.. .assiduity
  ip
assiduity and constancy to render myself worthy of her love.
The goddess was caught, Henny, she hesitated. — I never knew her hesitate for an answer in my life before.
Sure, says she, (with rather a falt’ring accent) you would not trust So fickle a goddess with your eternal happiness? Why, she would jilt you every day — d6 you think, she would favour her husband more than the rest of her votaries? — No — rather less — Fortune would never be so unfashionable as to be reformed by Matrimony.
The youth told her he would willingly run the risque, and was Sure be should not fail of being blessed with so lovely a Deity.
Many more things of the Same kind were Said; and he attached himself to us for the rest of the evening. Emily danced with him, and they Seemed wholly engrossed by each other’s conversation, — ’ Never did I See her appear So amiable.
M 3 aft^r
v66
After stie had danced Some time, we withdrew from the ballroom to an adjoining one, where was Set out a most; elegant Supper, at which we all unmasked; and I could See our young couple were extremely pleased with each other; in short, I am a good prophetess, for our dear girl, in Spite of all her former indifference, was Sairly in love.
Young Ravensworth Seemed very much displeased with her attention to the .stranger; and in order, I suppose, to pique her, addressed himself entirely to me, was my partner all the night, and Said so many gallant things, in a manner peculiar to himself, that had they really come from his heart, would have made too deep an impression on the mind of your poor Charlotte.
And has it not had that effect already? will my sweet Henny Say : Why, I don’t know, my love; this unsortunate affair, coming upon us So Suddenly, has not
given
 67
given me time to examine the Iituation of my own heart. — Poor Emily — my whole concern is on account of that truly amiable girl.
After Supper we renewed our dancing till about three in the morning, when the company all Separated,
miss Ravensworth gave the young stranger leave to See her the next day, and he handed her (as we thought) into her chair; but alas, we were mistaken, for we never Saw her Since.
Her Servant came home Soon after us, but Seemed entirely ignorant about his mistress; whom, he Said, he had waited for Some time, but finding Ihe did not come out, imagined he had missed her, and that she had come home before him,.
I thought the fellow looked as if he Spoke false, and it’s my firm belief he has been bribed : as I am certain miss Ravensworth would not get into her chair without she Saw her own Servant with it.
M 4 My
5 68   “
r • ^
My Suspicions' at first Sell upon the youjlg stranger — but he came the next morning to inquire after his fair partner; anst when we acquainted him with the accident, the agitation of his countenance
plainly proved that he was entirely in
%
Indeed I Sincerely pity him; for he Seems to be most violently in love with her, and I am very Sure he stands the best chance of success with her
t « *
any other of her admirers; his name is Blanche., ' he is only Son to a gentleman of fortune, is perfectly accomplished, with an elegant person, and a fine understand —
4
ing, joined to the most insinuating address I ever Saw; but after all, what does it signify??
Emily really likes this young man, she will Suffer doubly in her confinement vsherever she is: and oh! Henny, I
tremble when I constder her violent Spirit,
<
and what may be the consequence. — She
— who has never been used to any kind of
* - •
contra j
0
. \ t
*
» ■ *
f
 69
contradiction — Who knows, what lengths a restraint of the sort she now undoubtedly Suffers, may drive her to? — In short, I tremble for her life.
Young Ravensworth is like a madman; Mrs. Clayton does nothing but cry; and I visit them every day to participate of their affliction. How can this affair be broke to the fond grandmother? Better let her still remain in ignorance. — Possibly chance may lead us to Some knowledge of her present abode. We don’t know whom to suspect. — Lord Wilton is the only man of her acquaintance, I should think, would dare be guilty of Such violence. He is gone into the country too; young Ravensworth has been at his house. He was one of the company at the masauerade : — perhans he is the
i Jr JL
ravisher; and if So, mv dear, how do I tremble for oar poor friend, he is the most
V
abandoned libertine in town; oh! heavshs,
J die with apprehensions for her. — Adieu,
my
lyo
my dear Henny; I know you’ll join your prayers with mine, that my next epistle may contain better news; and believe me
Ever Yours,
Charlotte Danby.
/
LETTER XIX
4
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
Ay, ay. Bob, I have got the little
gypsey at last; she is Safe now. i’ll warrant her, and shall pay dear for all her Saucy treatment of your friend. I bribed her Servant at the masquerade, and carried her fairly off to my own house in leicef ter fields.
When she came in, and found herfeif in a strange house, she stared about, looked for her Servant, (whom by the by I Sent home directly) and alked my housekeeper, who attended with a candle. Where she was, and thro’ what mistake she had been carried there? nothing daunted, and little
expecting
 71
expecting what hands she had fallen into. She has a bold Spirit; and So you will find thro’ the course of my narrative : but I will tame it, before I have done with her, or break that little stubborn heart, which has given me So much unealinefs.
Betty told her. If she would walk into the parlour, she would be presently in sormed. — Informed! Said she, what do you mean? Pray now call my chair, and let me instantly be carried home. — No, ma’am, says she, I cannot do that; but if you’ll please to walk in there, you will find a good fire, and one that will let you into the mystery. • — Oh! very well. Says she, and bolted into the parlour, where I was ready to receive her.
She rather drew back, and with a dis dainful toss of her head. So, lord Wilton, says she, this is your Scheme, I suppose. How durst you. Sir, presume to use | this artifice to get me into your power? Pid you think my contempt for you before
17
sore was not Sufficient, but you must talc Such pains to make me despise you ten thousand times more thoroughly; instantly Send for a chair, and let me be gone, or expect in a very short time, you shall Severely answer for this outrage.
I Smiling replied. My charmer, don’t put yourself in a flutter — nor discompose that pretty countenance, which was formed for pleasure, by an ill timed rage. I have Sent for a post-chaise, my love, and therefore prepare to alter your dress, and attend me to my country Seat; my housekeeper will furnish you with what necessaries you want, and you will be pleased to get ready as Soon as possible; you See I am equipped to attend you (I had my riding dress on, and a brace of pistols laid on the table bestde me, which I generally travel with, and on these occasions in particular).
insolent! Says she. Look ye, lord Wilton, I am very resolute; you can neither intimidate me with your threats, nor your
imper
/

 75
impertinence. insolent and wicked, as I know you to be, and capable of the vilest: purposes, I fear you not at all; I am always for myself a Sufficient guard : yom could not have hit upon a worse person in the world to play the fool with, than your humble Servant; (coming and Seating herfeif at the table by me) Now don’t you think it would be much more eliffible to let
o
me go home quietly without any further disturbance; really, lord Wilton, you will cut a mighty Silly figure in this affair; (looking at me with a composed kind of archness) don’t you begin to Seel yourself a
little awkward? -- -- You never appeared
mighty wise. Prithee, man, take my advice and be convinced, you are naturally ridiculous enough, without taking pains to appear more the idiot than you already are.
Faith, Bob, she has a peculiar manner of saying things, vrhich disconcerts one extremely.
Come, Sir, Says she, with an elevated
0
voice, you have played the fool long enough • • to
9*
»
t7
to tyre my patience; will you let me go?
(she was going to ring the bell, without my perceiving that she had Secured one of the pistols) No, my angel, says I, I cannot exist without you, and I am determined now, you shall make me happy.
Sir, returned the little d... 1, I find you are resolved then to drive me to extremities : — self desence is the first law of nature; and therefore. i’ll see if this weapon will do me justice. So saying, she cocked the pistol; and as I was going to wrench it from her, discharged it at me; but luckily it fixed in the wainscot, and did no other damage.
Now, madam. Said I, are you contented, will you alter your dress, and prepare to attend me, without my having recourse to violent measures, which I had rather not make use of? While I was Speaking, Ned came into the room, and told me the chaise was at the door.
Well, miss Ravensworth, Says I, will you go upstairs with Betty, or shall
I hand
 7i
I hand you into the chaise as you are? — Neither one nor the other, answered she;; tell you again, I will go home.
Nay then, I must oblige you, I find, to go in as you are; and was going to Seize her, in order to convey her to the door, when Ihe Saluted me with a box on the ear, which wanted not her good will to knock me down; but the hand was rather too slight for that, tho’ the blow was Spirited.
When stie found resistance was vain, stie Said stie would change her dress;; accordingly, had things prepared for that purpose: : done, I conveyed her to the carriage, and we whirled oft', as quick as Sour bays would carry us to B ...; where we now are.
Soon after daylight appeared, I observed her writing Something with a pencil; but as stie Seemed both lively and composed, I did not take much notice of it: — she Said, They were verses upon knight errantry, addressed to me, and stie would Seal it and Send it,
/
375
Indeed, I observed her both direct and close it with a wafer, (which she had in her pocket) but when she had done, she threw it out at the window. — Now, says she (with one of her Saucy Smiles) as it is directed to you, depend upon it you’ll be receiving it one of these days.
I would have stopped the chaise, but Ned, the only Servant we had with us, was gone on before, and I had given the postboys Such a strict charge to go on Swiftly, and not stop, that I could not make myself heard. I doubt It is Something that will be fatal to ray Scheme, for she has a contriving head, and generally Seems So perfectly composed; and at her ease, that there is no understanding her. All the way we travelled, and the whole time she has been here, she has by turns ridiculed and Scolded me. There is none but our old gardener’s wife to wait upon, her 3 and her she can’t bear the Sight ost, I cannot prevail on her either to breakfast, dine, or Sup, with me; — The other
day.
 77
'day, I Sent her a very pressing invitation, and upon her refusal, Sent a Second time; which provoked her to So violent a degree, that she pushed the old woman from the top. of the stairs to the bottom.. Did yoa ever know so confounded a vixen?
I then went upstairs myself, in hopes to prevail on her; but she told me, with a resolute tone, she would immediately leap out of the window, if I attempted to approach her (and I stncerely believe she is capable of keeping her Word.) I never
was inclinable to use force with her,
* •% •
because I would gladly obtain her consent to become my lady Wilton. • She is a fine girl, and her fortune will be of Service to me : but even if Such had been my designs, I should be cautious of putting them in execution, as I dread the violence of her temper : tho’, if I marry her, I will break her heart or conquer it. — No impolitic Scheme when she has been my wife a few months, you know. Bob. She vol. I, N may
/
rj% THE HISTORY OP
may decamp then, as Soon as She pleases, but at present, I Should chuse to preserve her lise a little longer. Adieu, Bob, you shall hear from me again, as Soon as anything material occurs, to acquaint you with; in the mean time, I remain
Your stncere friend, Charles Wilton,
LETTER XX
Miss Danby to miss Seagrove.
WE have got a letter, Henny —
A letter from our Emily — •' In the strangest: manner — This girl has a peculiar method of doing everything.
I was at Mrs. clayton’s yesterday morning,, in company only with herfeif, and young Ravensworth; (none of us you may be Sure in the most composed state of mind) when a stranger was announced, and in walked a most eleo ant figure, very near as handsome as young
Ravens
 79
Ravensworth; ahd upon my word. Soon aster, when I heard his agreeable
^ O
tidings, I began, I believe, to think him Sora Sew moments a great deal hand somer.
i
He approached Mrs. Clayton, and with inimitable grace delivered her a letter; — This, ma’am, I believe, is intended for you. Says he; it came to my hands in a most extraordinary manner, and in this cover; producing another piece of paper, which he presented her with.
The moment she cast; her eyes on the Superscription, she exclaim’d, with a degree of rapture; — Bless me, it Is from Emily. Where is she, dear Sir? how does she? when shall we See her again? with a whole string more of Such questions, which were demanded all in a breath, and reechoed by young Ravensworth, and myself. >
The gentleman could Scarce help Smiling at our curiosity; but referred us to the
N 2 letter
>
io
letter for Sarther Satisfaction; as, he Said, he found it in a morning's walk, about a mile from his own house, in the middle of a turnpike road; but desired us, first to read the cover in which it was inclosed. It ran thus; — “If this should chance to fall into the hands of a gentleman, he will have the Satisfaction by delivering the inclosed, as directed, of rescuing a young lady of Sashion and fortune, from the hands of violence, and restoring peace to a family who are in the greatest distress for the loss of her; if into those of a person,. to whom any pecuniary gratification would be acceptable, they may depend upon being Satisfied to the utmost of their wishes.”
The letter itself.. daunted in ‘her terrifying Situation, acquaints us, that the ravisher is Lord Wilton; but bids us be under no apprehensions, as, she
J
imagines, his design is more upon her fortune than her person; she thinks herself
in
  it
in no immediate danger; but, in short, I will get the letter from Mrs. Clayton,
and enclose it to you.
The stranger is prodigiously pleased with the courage and contrivance of the lady; has offered to turn knio; ht errant in her
CD
favour; and Mr. Ravensworth, together with your Harry, Mr. Oakham, and young Blanche, are Set out this day to go and storm Lord wilton’s castle, Mrs. Clayton, and I, would have advised them to have taken proper officers, but they thought it most prudent to follow their own Schemes; (men have that Silly way you knovr, Henny, of fancying they understand things better than us) — and may joy and success attend their enter’" prize. Oh! how I long to see our beloved Emily I Mrs. Clayton dies
<
with impatience to behold her Sweet friend .again; and, I dare Say, you are equally desirous of being assured she is once more Safe among us. Adieu, my love, read
N 3 the
itz
the enclosed letter of your little heroine’s, and tell me, if you don’t envy her that fine spirit which Supports her in a trial, under which, I doubt, either you or I should Soon fink vfith the most: frightful apprehensions. Once more, heav’n bless you; and believe me, most Sincerely and affectionately yours,
Charlotte Danby.
P. S. I had forgot to tell you, that the stranger is a most intimate friend of your harry’s; they call him Charles Downing, esq; and that Crosby desires, in the tenderest manner, to be remembered to his beloved miss Seagrove.
LETTER XXI
Miss Ravensworth to Mrs. Clayton,
(Enclosed in the foregoing.)
t
I AM confined, my dear Maria, yes I am, indeed; your Emily is really
deprived of her darling liberty, and yet
%
has
\ *
✓
 83
has hitherto Survived it. Ay, and will, Mrs. Clayton, if it is only to be revenged of the brute who detains her; the horrid, detested, vile Lord Wilton! Oh, my Maria, how shall I find words bad enough to express my aversion to so abonjinable a wretch : I could almost be
A
tempted to be guilty of perjury, and Swear a robbery and murder against him, for the dear delight of Seeing .him hanged. Oh! the transcendent joy of Seeing him. ride backwards in a cart to Tyburn, kneeling with his hands in a praying posture, and his nightcap over his Sorehead, with a parspn at his righthand * him for a decent exit; while in a few hours afterwards, would be heard crying about the streets, “The last dying words. Speech, and confession, of the Right Honourable Lord Wilton, for a most bloody, barbarous, and inhuman murder.” — Rapturous thoughts, let me indulge you a little, for heaven’s sake,
N 4 I have
I
«
1*4
S
I have been examining his Sace Some time, and am fully persuaded he will die a violent death; he really has a Tyburn
countenance : did you never make Such an observation, my dear? — No matter, whether you did or no; (tho’, I think, by the by, it could not have escaped your notice, but a lady of my judgement and discernment can never be mistaken) My life to a china orange, Maria, I prove a true prophetess.
After all, I don’t half like this confinement of mine; ’tis true, i’m under no
#
apprehensions from the monster : I know my fortune to be his only aim; and consequently, suppose my person to be in no Sort of danger. I imagine, he thinks, when I am tired of living in a Cage, I v/ili marry him for the sake of liberty, — ' Sensible creature; — 'but these rnales are So clever In their conjectures. So wise, So penetrating! (Ah I Emily, take care; always ridiculing these imaginary lords of
the
 85
the creation : what not one worthy being, called a man, existing? be cautious, my friend, Emily, least by a too rash judge «
merit, you cast an odium on the under
%
of your own Sex, and on that of yourself, in particular) So far, says Conscience.
Why really, my Sage adviser, I think you are in the right. — No — I won’t pronounce too decistvely: Why, there
#
may be men in the world to be Sure. —
Yes, it is possible, I Say; I fancy there Is a possibility of the world’s affording one tolerable kind of man, perhaps, but I
never met — Fia! hold, how do I know
«
that? Why, very true, indeed, I can’t be certain of that neither. I fear i’m on the v/reng Side of the quesdon : i’ll e’eri
V
give it up, I think, and call another Subject.
i’m thinking, Maria, whether or no — I Say, I was Suppofmg, (oh! heavens, what a comparison) that if the ra r visher had been that pretty young masquerade
1
/
i86
rade Spark, I should not have Selt myself quite so m\xc\i en colere against: him, as I am with the Sright that Sits next me, at present Ah! me, why did fate confine so masculine a Spirit in So tender a frame; why am I So weak, oh! Maria, why cannot I tear the monster piecemeal?? — impotent is the rage of woman? Let me cool a little; I have worked myself up to Such a degree of fury, that I can hardly restrain my nails from (at least, attempting) to pull cut those ugly staring eyes, which provoke me beyond my strength. — There, Maria, after a short pause, and upon reflection that I am writing to my most amiable friend, I am become a little better humoured : may yoii Soon get this letter, and release your Emily from so ineligible a sttuation; but tho’ disagreeable, don’t let it make you uneasy, my love, as I again repeat it to you, that I am not under the least apprehensions about Surther violence of any kind, at least for the present.
Take
 87
Take care, my good friend, of acquainting my grandmother with her emily’s misfortune; perhaps, I shall be among you ao ain, before she need know that I am missing. I dread the grief she would Suffer, from the knowledge of so unlucky an event: her tenderness for me would Suggest: to her many needless fears, with which J wish her to be ever unacquainted.
The gentle Henrietta too; may she likewise remain ignorant of my misfortunes; her own concerns are too much for her amiable and Sentimental breast:, ‘without being oppressed by the afflictions of others; for whom, (tho’even quite indifferent to her) I know she cannot help feeling most sensibly. As for my Sweet Maria, I know she will upon the receipt of this letter quiet her fears, and regard this matter in its true light, more disagreeable than dangerous, and no otherwise to be attended to, than by applying as Speedy a remedy to it as possible.
My
i88
My cousin Dicky knows lord wilton’s country Seat; and there, I suppose, he intends to carry me. I die with impatience, till I have once more the pleasure
of embracing my dear Maria, and the
'' •
agreeable Charlotte Danby. Adieu, jny love, and believe me
most sincerely yours, Emily Ravensworth.
%
LETTER XXII
Lord winton to Sir Robert Boyle,
Oti! the jade, Bob! That letter she
threw from the window of the chaise, it was to acquaint Mrs. Clayton with her enlevement, and the author of it: by the greatest chance I came to the knowledge of her Schemes, and defeated them.
I Sent Ned to town the other day, to inquire the Situation of the family, how they were affected by the loss of her, and whom they Sufpected as the ravisher, c.
And
MISS R.AVENSWORTH.
And he was informed by her old Servant, (whom I told you I bribed at the masquerade) that they had just received a letter from her, acquainting them, that she was at my country Seat; he Said, it was Sound on the road by one Mr. Downing, and brought by him immediately to the family; whose intention it was to Sally forth the next morning, in a large body, to demand her of me, and call me to a strict account for the outrage I had committed.
Ned, upon this information. Set out immediately, and got home time enough for me to remove her, before their arrival., She made great resistance to being forced a Second time into a post-chaise.
T told her, she should then consent to make me happy, and become my lady Wilton, at once; but she answered me. That she hoped first to See me Suffer the most io nominious death, to which she was
O
Sure my crimes would one day bring me. (Pretty prophetess 1) Surely, I shall tyre
her
190   '
her out at last; if not, I have one kind of force left to use, which, I think, will oblige her to a compliance.
She is the mosc obstinate little d... 1 that ever vas born; she has not, I believe, been once in bed. Since we left London; she eats very little, and that never in company with me : Sometimes I am permitted to attend her to the garden, and that is the only time she will admit of my company, without falling into rages, which I Sometimes fear will be fatal to her.
What a little untameable spirit! but it
•»
must, ay, and shall be conquered. Bob, when I have her in my power; never will I give up the privileges of a husband, to Such a little saucy vixen. I have now brought her to farmer harrow’s, an honest tenant of mine; who, for the sake of enjoying his farm a year rent free, may be bought to eternal silence.
They have got a pretty daughter too, whom Emily is very Sond of; and it is
in
  r^s
in So retired a place, that it’s next to an impossibility they stiould ever find her out. Upon the whole, I think stie is better dis posed of here, than at my house.
But the little Kitty, the farmer’s daughter. Bob; egad, she’s very pretty —
So languishing. So tender: i’m half — half! nayj, quite in love with her. she’s not So handsome as Emily, to be Sure, but by far the most desirable woman. — In short, ^ tho’ I admire miss Ravensworth for her
beauty, I am disgufted by her exceffiyc
« /
haughtiness and pride. — So majestic‘ahis forbidding. — Oh! the dear delightful soft ness of the rural Kitty; had that girl been destined for the beau monde, she’d have turned the heads of half our young English nobility. — Libertine as I am, I know how to admire the unaffected modesty and delicacy of this young rustic, before all the fashionable levity of the most beauteous of our women of quality.
Tho’ my Emily has a different character from these, tho’ she is entirely Sree from '
all
ipa tile HISTORY OF
all kind of affectation; yet she is formed by nature with so great a share of disdainful pride, and cutting indifference, that she is, in every respect, (excepting that of fortune), perfectly unamiable; all fire and violence in her disposition;; word she
Says, So keen, that it pierces to the very
\.
soul. She despises and hates me, yet she shall still be mine; but even then there is a disdainful coolness in her behaviour, which while I endeavour to conquer, will
stab me to the heart. If the lovely Kit
»
had her fortune, I think I should be tempted to reform; ay. Bob, I Say reform, and make a downright tender, fond, sighing, faithful husband.
But in the mean time she is a pretty piece to play with; and I want Something to console me, for the mortification I endure with this confounded little fury And shall I then endeavour to destroy So much youth, innocence, and beauty? — <
Conscience avaunt! I will not listen to,
thy
 93
thy dull Sage instructions — Kitty was
Sormed for love and me; and while I know
%
her heart is capable of Soft fensations, shall lisorego the blessed occasion— — by heav’ns i’ll begin the attack; and reward myself for the contempt I have endured from the Scornful miss Emily. Adieu;
I know thou wilt applaud my Scheme : and theresore, pray that success may attend
Your Sincere friend,
Wilton.
LETTER XXIII
Miss Seagrove to miss Danby.
HOW you rejoice me, my Charlotte, by your last heart enliven ing epistle. — My dear pretty Emily; how can I bear to think of her distress;; gentle Emily, whose heart beats for. every pain which can afflict the breast of others, must she hersels become Subject to ' the worst of evils, which can be inflicted vol.i. O on
t
19
on so volatile a disposition as her’s : So cruel a confinement! Oh! Charlotte,
I know her disposition better than you do; and thro’ all that courag; eus firmness
/ o
she affects, am Sully Satisfied she Suffers in the most Supreme degree...
Yes, she is in love, Charlotte : her letter, the style and manner of it, tho’ against her inclination, plainly betray the feelings of her heart. Alas! my poor Emily, how does your grateful, fond Henrietta, Seel for the anxieties thy ' tender bosom Suffers. No Charlotte, my Emily will never complain; she has a noble Spirit, and will not Suffer Small affiidtions to get th: better of it. But this is no trifle; she is too generous to give us uneasmess,. and therefore turns it off in the best manner possible;; her own heart. Suffers more exquifltely. Oh! love, I
know thy power, too well— — know the
\.
misery attending absent lovers; and I know my once gay, lively' friend, with
passions
«
I
 95
passions strong as her’s are, must te wretched beyond expression: : Soon again, I hope to embrace the amiable girl, and Soon to See her happy in the arms of a deserving man, who loves, and is equally beloved by her.
None of the family here know anything of her loss. Mrs. Ravensworth wonders Ihe does not hear from her; but attributes it to a round of company, which take up her whole time. Dicky Ravensworth was here t’other day, and told them stie was very well: Indeed, Charlotte, he is a charming fellow: if my heart was not pre engaged, I think I could almost fall in love with him myself.
Surely, this young Blanche mu st e Some phenomenon. Such as never yet existed; otherwise our Emily, who has proved herself on his account not to be insensible, could never slight the handsome Ravensworth.
Cymon, as our poor friend calls him, is extremely offended at his Cousin
O 2 Richard,
%
196
pvichard, for So Seldom paying us a visit, I donst think any inducement, could have kept the youth So long among us, but his
love for Harriot Manning. She is really a sweet girl, but too Small a fortune to meet with the approbation of old Ravensworth; who, as I have already told you, would barter his soul for money: and indeed, if his consent was possible to
t
be obtained, I imagine the young lady would not be quite So complying, as she is distressed to death at the tendres of the Squire.
miss Patty, and he, are continually at variance; they live in open war with each other: and I do verily believe, that one time or other, a downright battle will be the consequence of their eternal quarrels. A few days ago we were visited by Mr. and Mrs. Hornby, Mrs. Graham, an aunt of Mrs. hornby’s, and miss Harriot, and another gentleman and lady. Mrs. Hornby very politely inquired after
miss
 97
Miss Emily; and while Mrs. Ravensworth was answering her compliment, master Tommy, observing his aunt to turn up her lip with a contemptuous motion, thundered out in an alarming tone or voice, accompanied with a loud laugh; Halloo, Smoke the old maid, she is going into fits. Ecod, if she did not
I
make herfeif look as like one o’t witches i,, just now, as ever ye Seed; By jingo, she looks Sae lagged and Sac wisned, that an fire was to act i’ like a charactere, Soalks at did’nst know her Would be staid out at’ playhouse. Had the pencil of Hogarth, I might perhaps attempt to delineate to you the pictures of the whole company at this Speech; but as I have not, your fancy must Supply the place of colouring.
miss patty’s rage, terrified the Spectators out of all risible inclinations, which the oddity of the Speech and the method of delivery would otherwise have occasioned;; Sat filent for a good
while;
198
9
while; at last Mrs. Ravensworth ventured to alk what was the matter.
TOMMY anfvvercd, I know not; but every time cousm emmy’s mentioned, auid Envy here distorts her Seace just as if she were going into fits; she quite slays me Fs Sure: an she had lived Some years ago she’d ha’ been burnt for a
Vvdtch.
You impudent Saucy jackanapes you, says miss Patty, I shall acquaint my father with your impudence, and have you turned out of doors directly.
Why what’s matter, says Cymon, what do you quarrel wi’ me for, tho’ i’se a good tolerable sort of a young man, yet as i’se neither o’ your own Sex, nor So handsome as Cousin Emmy, I can’t See wherein ye envy me.
You dirty rascal you — She was going to proceed, but was again interrupted. — don’t call neames, old fusty. Says he, or I shall be certain Sure to kick your — — •you kick me, you good for nothing dog
I you,
\
%
 99
ou. Says she, how dare you talk to me in Such a manner.
Mrs. Ravensworth, confused beyond measure, gave them both a reprimand, and begged of them to be a little more decent than to disturb the company by their ill timed quarrels : but in vain she remonstrated; they jarred on till Miss Patty was Sorced to quit the field, and then all became peace and quietness again. Though'
I could easily perceive, that Mrs. Graham, who is an old maid, was not quite so well pleased with the inuendo’s thrown out by the young Squire, against antiquated virginity.
The company Soon after took their leave; and again did miss Patty renew her quarrel with Cymon, by acquainting Mr. Ravensworth vvith his behaviour.
9
He excused himself, by Saying that he loved Cousin Emmy, who was a good-natured pretty Sensible girl, and could not bear to have her ridiculed by Such an ugly, malicious, envious old b.,. h.
Mr.
♦
m
200 THE HISTORY, c.
Mr. Ravensworth Said, he should be politer in his language to his aunt, and particularly in his presence, where he would Suffer no indecent behaviour. He then began to inquire into the cause of Miss patty’s bearing so great a dillikc to So worthy a niece : a behaviour she could give no just reason for, and therefore was obliged to retire from the room in tears.
This, my dear, is the present Situation of our family; is it not a most desirable one? When will my father again Suffer me to be at home? Why will he dis truft a daughter who loves him So tenderly?? — my mother would not be so hard hearted, but she I know is not mistress of her own inclinations. Oh! Ch ARLOTTE, you Slid, your aunt would renew her acquaintance with Mrs. Ravensworth : do, my lovely friend, come and bestow Some comfort on the almost heart broken
sienrietta Seagrove.
«
end of the first volume.
A
»
9
OLD A I D;
O R,
HISTORY
O F
Miss RAVENS'WORTH,
IN A
SERIES OF LETTERS.
• ^
0^^ ■ i ■ ..^ ■■ II, i
By Mrs. S K I N N,
Late Miss Masterman, of York,
..... I
If any here chance to behold himself
Let him not dare to challenge me of wrong j
For if he shame to have his follies known
First he fhou’d stiame to act: ’em.i
■.. — - ' ' ' ' -- - ■
VOLUME THE SECOND.
r' ' ' ■.. "

printed for J. Bell, at his Circulating library, near Exeter exchange, in the Strand; ^
and C Etherington, at York, ^
MDCCLXXI.
* ^
, » •>y fe.. «•'
. ^ ^
*
* s,
'■ 1*^ '■ ■ — I ■ — ■■■■■■■ — II I i ivi f iiit ■■■■■ im mi hnl ■ imi iftimf |1 iuviit<iigiit
<■!■#« r., -- -- j --
%
9
THE
HISTORY
0 •
OF
MISS RAVENS'WORTH,
••
J
I ^ - ^ -- -- ■•;, ■, ■-■ a ^ ■ ^
.4 0
LETTER XXIV
Miss Danby to Miss Seagrove.
09 9
COMFORT! oh! my Sweet Henny, where shall I find comfort for myself, or for the poor distressed Mrs, Clayton, or the half distracted Ravensworth? — She is gone, my friend; the
detested villain has Sufpected, our Scheme,
0
and removed her from us, perhaps, for ever. vol. II B They
^
They all Set out for his country Seatjt in the manner, and at the time I told you;
but they Sound no one there but an old woman, who told them, that lord Wilton had not been at his Seat of twos months: but upon their inquiry about him, at a public house, about a mile off, they Said, That a carriage, which they knew to be lord wilton’s, had that
f
morning pasted by their house, with himself and a young lady in it, who tried to
V
put down the window; when he attempted to oppose her in it, ssie Smassied the
0 *
glass in pieces, and called loudly out for help: but as they knew lord Wilton to be a desperate man, they durst not offer her any assistance; neither, had their inclinations been Such, was it in their power, for the chaise drove with Such fwiftness, they could not overtake it. — Oh I Henny, exists there Such another villain? — Where can he have conveyed this Sweet girl? — What violence may he not make useof? or to what lengths may he not drive her?
m
Miss RAVENSWORTH,,
Mrs. Clayton Suffers a double share of
V
affliction; she is distressed for her young friend, and made wretched by a bad husband They Were upon a visit together yesterday, both her and Mr. Clayton; when the lady of the house, upon Some occasion.
Sent in for her own maid, a very pretty and genteel young woman; who the moment she entered, and cast her eyes on Mr, Clay tonne, fainted away, exclaiming as she fell. Oh! Clayton, you have undone me. Imagine how agreeable a Scene this must be for a fond wife. — He stood without motion. The lady of the house assisted her Servant, and Mrs. Clayton was not backward in offering every relief in her power. When the young woman came to herself, she appeared extremely confused; asked pardon for the trouble she had given them, and begged leave to quit the room : a request which was immediately complied with.
Mr. Clayton, Soon afterwards, pleaded an engagement, and left the two ladies
Bar hy -
» *
%
by themselves. aster he was gone, his wise desired to be informed. Who the woman was, and what made her So particularly mention her husband??
other assured her. That she was quite ignorant of the history of her Servant, who was recommended to her by Mrs. Egret, the milliner, as a Sober, discreet young girl; and Such she had ever found her: but, if Mrs. Clayton wanted any further information, she would oblige her to come down, and Satisfy her. curiosity.
A bow of assent from that lady, caused an immediate Summons for the unfortunate girl; who once more made her apt

pearance, tho’ hardly able to Support herselst
Come hither, child. Said Mrs. Clayton, in an encouraging voice, you Seem to be very ill; Sit down by me, and tell. me the cause of this Sudden disorder; depend upon my friendship, if I can be of any Service to you. Yes, Nancy, Says
her

her mistress, this lady is the wife of Mr. Clayton; and your unguarded behaviour, upon the account of that gentleman, gives us room to suppose, there is Something more than common in your present indispolition : Sit down, my good girl, and tell us the whole truth; depend upon it, you shall be no Sufferer by a candid confession.
Oh! ma’am, says the unhappy girl, is Mr. Clayton then married? Indeed, I .did not know he was. — I have been much to blame; but did not know I was injuring any but myself. — Can you, says she — kneeling at Mrs. clayton’s feet — can you forgive a miserable wretch, who will soon die a martyr to a guilty passion, which has made her wretched for these four years; while you, I hope, will live happy in a virtuous inclination; a happiness I can never enjoy, as I have long Since forfeited all title to it.
P'or heaven’s Sake, Said Mrs. Clayton, drowned in tears, rise my good girl. Since
B 3 It
I
I
’6
■it
it is I who ought to beg forgiveness, Soi having hindered him, tho’ unknowingly,
from doing you that justice, you had, I am Sure, So great a right to expect, I am not a woman of that tyrannical virtue, who condemn all that part of my Sex, unhappy enough one time in their life, to deviate from its paths. I think, by your appearance, you were not born to be a Servant; and you Seem to be possessed of that innate modesty, which would not easily be Seduced. Tell me your story, my dear; I am convinced I shall not find myself deceived in you; and believe me, I shall make your afflictions my own.
After a short pause, the young lady (for 'Such she was) rose up, and addressing hersels to Mrs. Clayton, thanked her in
\
the most gratesul terms for her indulgence; and Said, That after she had given an im
4
partial account of her Sad story, she hoped she should not forfeit all title to the pity of So amiable a lady.
She
  f
"She then told them. That she was the daughter of a clergyman, possessed of a good benefice, and the most indulgent of parents. Her name she would tell them, but begged, for the sake of her family, it might go no further, was Danvers. That Mr. Clayton often visited a family in their neighbourhood;; and she had frequently Seen him at church. She Said, she could not help being rather prepossessed in his favour, at first sight; and his eyes Seemed to tell her, she was not indifferent to him. That, at last, he came with the family he was visiting to their house; and being once introduced, he made his visits pretty Srequent; Iofing no opportunity to convince her of the sincerity of his loye, and pretending it in honourable terms,
. That after Some time, he one day, one
s
fatal day, persuaded her to receive him privately in her bedroom, which was on a ground floor. As they had So few opportunities
of talking together without With
4 nefies,
/
t
neltes, and as he had given her many plau stble reasons for not yet breaking his pas sion to her Sather; that she loved; too readily believed everything he Said, and admitted him as he desired.
He behaved, she Said, with great reserve and decency for many nights; which gave her So high an opinion of his honour, as by a too great Security to put her off her guard. It was needless to mention the many oaths of constancy and honour which he Swore; as this kind of perjury was but too common, to be attended to by any but a woman whose every fense was lulled asleep by love. That he one hight took her by Surprise, and by a pro r mise of immediate marriage, conquered her every Scruple, and plunged her at once to infamy and to shame.
After This, all her prayers and entreaties could not persuade him to keep his word, and alk her in marriage of her father; he always finding Some delay or
Other,
\
 ,
other, to impede the completion of his promise, till she grew big with child : and then, the Sear and dread of being found to be in Such a litnation, obliged her to
9
sty with him to London, where she was Soon after delivered of a child; which, from the anxieties and misery she had Suffered, during her pregnancy, soon took convulstons and died.
He lived with her after this for a year; always promising to marry her, when his father died. But she Soon after perceived a great coolness and alteration in his behaviour; and he at last told her, that he would Supply her with whatever money she wanted, but it was not possible he should ever See her more.
To So cruel a Speech, she Says, she does not know what answer she returned, as she fell into a state of infenstbility, from which she never recovered during three months; at the end of which time, she began to grow rather better. But her long illness,

so
fiess, and other necessaries, took all her ready money; and She should have been greatly distressed, as she heard no Surther from him, but the person she lodged with, being a milliner, and a good Sort of woman, pitying her unhappy state, told her she wanted a journeywoman, and would, if she chose, employ her in that capacity.
This offer she joyfully accepted; and continued to live as happy as the bitterness of her reflections on past misfortunes would permit her; when her tranquillity was again interrupted by a customer of her mistress’s, one lord Wilton, who took it into his head to shock her ears with the most horrid proposals. Her refusals, and detestation of him, were to no purpose; he still teased her, and, at last, forcibly attempted to carry her off, when she had been with Some band boxes to a lady : he Seized her, and was dragging her to a coach, which was in waiting, when her cries brought to her Succour a young
gentleman
  LI
gentleman passing that way, (who was not to be deceived, with the populace, into a belief of her being his wife) who rescued, and conducted her safe to the friendly milliner’s. But she finding it no longer Safe to keep her in the shop, recommended her as a Servant to the lady Ihe was then with.
This, my dear, is the Sum of miss danvers’s story. Mrs. Clayton was much affected by it, and tenderly embracing her, promised to befriend and protect her. She is determined to See, if she can effect a reconciliation with the young lady’s friends. In the mean time, her behaviour to her husband is truly philosophic. She is Sorry she ever married him on the young lady’s account, who, she thinks, has a prior title to him; but no frowns, no reserve, no ill temper does she affect to him : all Serenity and good-humour; she only confiders how to remedy |; he evils he has occasioned. Adieu, my
dear
/
«
12,
dear Henny, I am Srightened at the length of this epistle; believe me
Sincerely yours,
. Charlotte Danby.
/
LETTER XXV
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
MISS Emily condescends?, now to
give me a little more of her agreeable company; but never without the farmer’s family being present. She addressed hersels to me, besore them, t’other day at dinner: — Pray, lord Wilton, Says she, what advantage can you propose to yourself, by confining here a young lady, over whom you have not the Smallest authority? And you, honest man, (turning to
I
the Sarmer) do you Sear no consequences which may ensue, from forcibly detaining in your house, a young person of condition?
The old man Seemed rather struck. — Why really, miss, replied he, I don’t
know;
'I
  rj
know; I do nothing at all to you; this house is landlord’s, and he commands in it as he thinks proper. i’m Sure, I have no hand, nor no advantage in confining you.
Yes, Says she, you have; this is your house now, and you have a right to Set me at liberty is you please : confider, you have a daughter of your own, and how should you like to see her in the hands of a young fellow, who bears the vilest of characters?
Why, Miss, returned the old man, I would not see you hurt for the world; but his lordship does not attempt any harm to you; he only wants to make you his honourable wife; and to be Sure he is vastly in love with you, or he would not offer Such a thing : and you certainly cannot desire a more proper young gentleman.
And So, Says she, to humour his avari tious desire to be in possession of my fortune, I am to make myself miserable for life : but I instantly demand to be Set
at
I
1
at liberty: only Suffer me to leave the house, and I will walk till I can meet a convenient carriage, to conduct me to my friends. I will go. Says she, at your perils you oppose me. — So Saying, she rose up to quit the room, and Spoke with So commanding an air, that none present but myself, durst venture to approach her.
I took her by the hand, and told herj she positively must not think of leaving this house, till she had complied with my dcstre of making her lady Wilton. She only anfv/ered me, by taking up a knife, and aiming it at my head, which in wresting from her, cut me in the left hand, so as to render it almost entirely useless; however, with the other, I got between her and the door, and locked it
■ rage then exceeded all bounds. So that we were obliged to take every offensive weapon from her Sight, or she would have endeavoured to Sacrifice us all. Poor little bird, how it beats itself about! It
mig; ht
w

might as well be quiet tho’. Bob, Sori will now make her comply, if it is only through a principle of revenge, for the trouble she has given me.
The gentle Kitty wept; and on her knees implored us to let the lady return to her afflicted relations. — How hard. Says the pretty pleader, Sora young lady to be under Such disagreeable restraints? Pray, Sather, pray, good Lord Wilton, Suffer miss Emily to depart: She has So
good an heart, who knows but in gratitude she may consent to be yours, when she is once more her own mistress. How can you. Sir, like to accept a wife upon compulsion?
Pretty Kitty — How beautiful did she look, in the midst of all her Sorrow S
Amiable girl. — • 1 raised her up, and giving her a gentle kiss, told her she was an angel, and I would constder her request; but in the mean time, I begged she would make herself easy, and persuade miss
Ravensworth
i6 .isffhe HISTORY OF
Ravensworth to do the Same. My compliment raised a glowing blush on her Sair face, which made her look really divine. Upon my Soul, Bob, I am bewitched by this Sweet girl.
miss Ravensworth kept looking at me, with a countenance in which was depicted disgust, contempt, and hatred. Kitty ventured to hint, that the Sooner a Savour was conferred, the stronger the obligation.
m
Obligation! retorted Emily; obliged to him! Cease, my dear Kitty, to use Such mortifying expressions. I comrnand him, as I have a right to dispose of myself in what manner I think proper, immediately to Set me free; and at your peril, yes, I say, at your peril. Lord Wilton, that you detain me longer. Coward, as you are, I know you dare not face the fury of my injured friends : perhaps now, says she (with a Smile of ineffable disdain) if you let me go, I shall return the obligation,
\
MISS RAVENSWOR': ^. 17
I »
gation, by desiring them to give you a private kicking, without posting you for what you are, in every public place and company about town. But depend upon it, if you don’t consent to my instant enlargement I shall have you treated in the manner you deserve; a manner you stave not courao; e even to think of without horror.
How provoking. Bob, was this behaviour? I could almost have beat the little Saucy vixen, who durst affront me in So gross a manner. No ma’am. Says I, with a rapping oath, (for I was in as grand coler as the young lady) you shall never leave me, till I have either conquered your unreasonable prejudices against me, or till one of us is no more : and Send for your
J
relations, miss, as Soon as you please, YOU shall See I dare Sace them all; and
maintain with the point of my Sword,
« ••
every action you, or any other, dares lay to my charge, as a crime.
vol. IL C Let
it THE tllstory OF
Let me then. Says she. Send to these relations, and See if you can for once endeavour to prove, that a liar may Sometimes by chance Speak truth.
Very well, Miss Ravensworth, returned I; as Soon as you think proper to %
comply with ray request, I shall subscribe to any one of yours, you shall choose to make mention.
Puppy, replied she, how easy to talk before women? How like a reptile the thing looks, as if it was Sensible of it’s own nothingness; (faith. Bob, I believe
f
I did look rather Silly) a pretty thing to make a lord of! — I See, I See plainly, you Seel yourstlf most Superlatively ridiculous : how very mean does Such a thing as you appear, when in company with its Superiors, aiid those who can See into the littleness, the meanness of it’s heart and Sentiments? Though you join a wicked character to a most contemptible one, yet I pity your distress. observe him, Kitty,
(I had
  ig
(I had rather she had stabbed a dagger to my heart, than Said So) observe how despi cable a being, is that thing called a lord, when divested of those mental and material ornaments, which bespeak the man. Come,
7
thou poor wretch, continued she, putting, me aside, stand out of my way, and let me retire to my apartment.
Stay, my dear miss Ravensworth,
4 *
Said I; why will you entertain So mean an
pinion, of a man who adores you?
0 0
«
How little, replied she, dost thou under
*
stand the meaning of the words thou fpeakest? Would the man who adored me, dare to use me thus ill? Open the door. Lord Wilton, and let me go upstairs.
I was going to Speak again, but Kitty once more interceded, and I could riot refuse; but this confounded Emily has made me look So very Small, both in her eyes, and my own, that i’m afraid I shall not very Soon be able to pursue rpy
C 2 project,
9
20
*
project, upon this little rural nymph.
Ever stnce that day, she has done nothing
but turn me into the highest ridicule;
and, by her giving me So much more of
her time, I do verily believe, she takes a
delight in making me appear ridiculous
before the family. I don’t know where
0
all this will end. I would try another kind of force, but my destgns upon the little Kitty oppose Such measures; at least for the present. Adieu, pray for me, (if ever thou did’st pray) and may thole prayers be fuccessful to
Charles Wilton.
LETTER XXVI
Sir Robert Boyle to Lord Wilton,
»
WHY, what a poor puny fellow
‘art thou, Charles; to be dis concerted in Such a manner, by the Silly prattle of a roshantick girl? Pray for you, ' indeed! — How could you think, I
would
%
%
 i
\
would ever Spend my time to So little purpose, as praying for such a piping, whining thing? Saith, Charles, thou deserv’sb to look as Silly, or rather more fois possible, than thou defcrib’ll thyfeis. To be so long under the Same roos with two Such little bewitching devils, and to have made no one coup de main, towards recompensing thyself with either of them, for the trouble thou hast had, and art likely to have, on account of that gipsey, Emily. Whatart doing, man? Zounds, were I in thy place, i’d engage to have conquered half the girls in the country, ere now. Take care, Charles, you don’t drive matters too far; venienfi, occur rite, morbo; is my motto : and if thou dost not profit by it, and make it thine also, why thou wilt deserve to be laugh’d at. What a pretty figure will you make, Charles, should this little eel slip through your fingers at last; or, should her fapiily get a knowledge of the place of her conc
3 cealment;
22
» •
cealment; how wilt thou then curse thyself, for thy stupidity, and dullness, in not foreseeing the consequences? It is the part of a wise general, when he can’t
take by stratagem, to rnake a bold effort,
✓. •
and storm the citadel Sword in hand. I
J. \ A' ' • \ ^ ^
i
al ways till now; thought thee a very machiavel: : alas, how am I deceived?
V. ' ■ ’.
Thou at wavering, and disconcerted a foolisti girl. D.. n it, have you not open drop of gall in you? To be wounded, ridiculed, and Scandalised in So gross a
• ^ \ ' i ■ 'A : O
manner, by the little witch; and then Sit down with, “I don’t know where all this will end.” Oh Charles, Charles,
i;;,
thee, man, arid take a glorious re yenge. Whether she will, or will not, be
A ■ •
lady Wilton, make thyselsbut mascer of her charms, and Till Sing Le Deum in thy praise, every day for a month to come.
If thou canst Succeed with Kitty
• •
do; what Signifies mincing matters? leave that to grovelling Spirits; Such
SIS
 3
as thine and mine, ought to Soar above the con mon Set of beings.
Write to me as soon as possible, and make me happy by telling me thou art So. When thou art tired of Kitty, Charles, don’t forget thou hast a friend.
Adieu; thine as thou behav’st,
Robert Boyle.
LETTER XXVII
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
«
I Do, I do curse myself, thee, Emily, and all the world. Write to thee I Oh Bob, Bob, to what purpose stiall I write? To acquaint thee, that she is lost, gone for ever. Curse on my stupid head, that had not iron grates to every window in the house. — Who could have suspected her of Such an action?
Well may’st thou upbraid me. — But why So late in thy admonitions? — I was in the parlour, underneath where she used
C 4 to
#
24
C
to lay, when I heard a violent cry, of Murder, Help, Help, for god’s Sake. I imagined it was her; and besore I could get upstairs to stop her mouth, shie jumped from the window, and was immediately assisted in rising by a young Sellow,
i
who, upon her outcries, had just dismounted from his horse.
I Sallied forth : and found it to be a
\ ^
Mr. Blanche, who had been very particular with her, all the evening at the masquerade.
She was begging his protection, to deliver her from the vile monster who had So long detained her. As Soon as she Saw me, she clung to him in all the agonies of fear; and he, addressing himself to me. Said, So, lord Wilton; you, I find, are the ravisher of this young lady — Here, George, (calling to his Servant) ride directly to the next market town, and bring a posc chaife; with all possible expedition. As for you, my lord,
turning
 5
turning to me, I shall take another time to call you to an account, for Such villainous behaviour: at present, my attention to the lady prevents me from chaf tismg you as you deserve.
No, Sir, I replied, now or never; you shall Sooner deprive me of life, than of miss Ravensworth; and you must Sacrifice that, besore I shalt tamely Suffer you to bear her off.
, Look ye, my lord, returned he, I should be Sorry to do an ungentleman like action; but as my life is at present necessary for the preservation of an injured lady, I cannot risque it, till I have Seen her Safely conveyed to her friends; after that, my character is too well known to make it necessary for me to inform you; that I dare meet you when and where you please : but if in the mean time, you offer any kind of violence, tending to get miss Emily into your power again, the con teiits of this little engine, pulling out a
pocket
?6 IHE HISTORY OE
pocket pistol, stiall go through your head,
A
or that of any one, who dares oppose my purpose, And, till the post chaise comes. Says he to Kitty, (who looked pleased that Emily had got a protector) be kind
enough, my good girl, to bring the lady a
♦
(chair out here; as I imagine, she will not again chuse to enter the house. I went in, and fetched a brace of pocket pistols, determin’d not to Submit with lise to the loss of her; but the dog foreseeing pry intention, immediately fired, and Siot me through the arm; by that means dis nblins; me from all resistance.
o
I Sell to the ground with loss of blood, and did not recover my senses for Some time; when I found Kitty weeping over pie, and a Surgeon dressing my wound.
I inquired. What was become of Emily? nd she answered. The gentleman had carried her off; but that she had either
^ V
broke her leg, or violently Sprained her ankle, for she could not Set her foot to the
A
ground.
  if
I am now, as you See, well enough recovered to use my arm; tho’ very weak from the quantity of blood I lost, besore any assistance could be got. The tender Kitty is my constant nurse. I do verily believe the girl loves me; but I am not ir; a state of mind or body, to take advantage of it. I am half distracted at my disappointment; but if ever I get her into rny power again, I shall show her no kind of mercy. Oh, I could, on her account, execrate all womankind. Adieu, Bob, write Some comfort, to
Your unfortunate friend,
Charles Wilton.
LETTER XXIII
* Edward Blanche, esq;
To Richard Ravensworth, esq;
Sir,
I S with the greatest pleasure I L A. inform you, that I have. Since my
excursion
'it
excursion to A ..., been the happy instrument of restoring the amiable miss Ravensworth to liberty; but my happiness receives no Small alloy, from my not having it in my power, as soon as I could wish, to return her to the arms of her lamenting friends.
I was yesterday riding past a genteel farmhouse, when I was alarmed by a cry of Murder! I looked up, and before I could dismount, miss Ravensworth (for it was she herself who had Seen me;) jump’d from a chamber window. I ran as quick as possible to her assistance: — she Said, She was not hurt, but only frighted; and begged I would instantly convey her from that detested place.
I Sent my Servant to C... Sora post-chaise; and after a Small parley with lord Wilton, I bore her off; but Sound, when she came to walk, she had got a hurt, which disabled her from reaching the chaise without help. — She Seemed in pretty good
spirits
  z,
%
Spirits till we came to C...; but then, upon examining her leg, found it So prodigiously Swelled, that there was an absolute necessity for applying to a Surgeon;
who, when he arrived, declared it to be a
%
violent Sprain, which having been So long disregarded, together with the agitation of Spirits Ihe had undergone, had brought on a slight Sever; which would endanger her lise, in the mpfl; imminent degree, if she was removed till it was Somewhat abated.
As I find he thinks it' will be a work of time, I write these few lines, that either Mrs. Clayton, or Some one of her female friends, may be induced to come and see her properly attended to; especially as she Seems So prodigiously uneasy to be
J
among them. In the mean time, I will use ray utmost endeavours for the preservation of So valuable a life; which however, as yet, the doctor Says, if no worse Symptoms appear, is in no kmd of danger.
Grieved as I am, that your lovely cousin
stiould,
0
30
I
should, in the (lightest degree, be a Sufferer; yet my mind is now in a state of the highest tranquillity, when I compare it to the agonising terrors I experienced, at feeing her throw herfeif from a window fef Such a height.
I believed if next to an impossibility, that
so tender a frame should escape with life,
after So rude a shock. I fancy, the Sooner
anv of her owii Sex arrive to take care of •/
her, the Sooner they will expedite her rem

coyery; as her Situation among strangers is rather awkward, and she Seems to be too Senstble of it. I am. Sir, with compliments to the ladies.
Your most obedient humble Servant,
Edward Blanche.
LETTER XXIX
miss Danby to miss Seagrove.
JO Y! ~ Joy! — my dear pienny — • we have had a letter from young
Blanche. — How lucky, that he should
be
\
 1 be her deliverer! he’s a charming young
i
Sellow. — i’m half in love with him —
*
What say you, my dear? shall I attempt to rival this little emily? — Say but the word, Henny, and i’ll put on all my artillery of Smiles, Soft look's, and Ian' ' airs, and take the hero captive. — Ah! Charlotte, says miss Seagrove, What! suppose that you can break the chains, imposed on him by the lovely
Emily! — Yes, Henny, I, Say, if you
desire it. i’ll arm for conquest, and make
/
doubt of coming off victorious. — And can I then, oh! can your Charlotte, bestow a word, a thought, on any but the accomplished Ravensworth? — forbid, it Love, forbid it Constancy; for him my foolish heart first took the alarm of love, and for him muss; it ever beat, or ever cease its motion.
Hovv, Says my friend, can Charlotte. Dansy, my once disc: eet Charlotte, disclcse Such Sentiments in favour cf a man, whose hand and heart are destined
for
\
32, THE HIS TORY OJ
for another? And where’s the crime, my Henny? .Does it proceed from a too great susceptibility of heart? — If so, learn to pity a fellow Sinner; for if that’s a fault, who is rnore guilty than my tender, my amiable Henrietta?
Ravensworth, ’tis true, was destined for his pretty cousm; but her heart is irrecoverably bestowed upon another; and on Such a man as does honour to the choice of a girl, of whom, indeed, there are Sew, very few, will be found worthy. But what is all this, you’h tell me, to miss Ravensworth? — Unkind Charlotte,
thus to keep me in suspense about an event, in which my heart So entirely interests itseis. Call me not unkind, my love, and I will tell you all. But my spirits are To agitated. So fluttered, my whole Soul So divided betwixt hope, fear, love, joy. Sorrow, and a variety of Such contending passions, that I know not where to begin, nor how connect iny story
k
into
 3
into any kind of method. — didn’t I tell you of a letter — a letter from young
_ *0
Blanche to theamiableravensworth. It was to acquaint us, that our Emily was, through his means, at liberty; but jumped from a window, in her extreme impatience to be with him, and Sprained her ankle : the consequence of which was a fever, which detains her at C..., about a stage from her late prison.
He desir’d that Mrs. Clayton, or
/ Some of her female acquaintance, would instantly come, and remain with her till she was recovered. Gladly would the friendly Maria have complied with the request; but her husband, her vile husband, would not Suffer it. Kind as she has been to Such a man, tenderly as she has overlooked all his Saults; this is the return she meets with.
I
The popr thing is half distracted; she begged permission to attend her Emily, with the most urgent entreaties; but in
vol. II D vain:
^
Vain : Sorgetting the care with which his wise had been attended by her, she could gain nothing but the most cutting refusals. He Surely Cannot think, miss Danvers has disclos’d her story; if he did — he coiild not dare to brave it in so vile a manner ■ — Poor Mrs. Clayton — how
will she be affiicted, till she hears of her
\
Sweet friend’s recovery?
Finding it was in vain to Solicit further
%
leave for her own personal attendance, she came and entreated my aunt, to let me go with young Ravensworth, to be with his charming coustn in her illness.
You know the friendly and humane disposition of my aunt; who did not hesttate a moment, to Send her niece on So pleastng, So benevolent an errand : I was
t
ordered immediately to pack up what few things I might want, and repair to C...,
without further delay.
« _ __
My aunt’s bad state of health would not Suffer her to accompany me; otherwise, -
Miss ravensworth.
wise, I Saw she had rather have attended me. — Was she afraid of emily’s too charming cousm? — Oh, Henny! the deed wzs done. — Your friend was wounded too deeply, from the first moment she beheld him, ever to have felt the same sensations in favour of another.
Before I could be entirely prepared, he stopped with a post chaife — How like an Adonis, he appeared I — how werehi$ fine < black eyes enlivened, at the joyful news of his recovered Emily! But it was a joy, arising from friendship, not from love. Her indifference had long changed his Sentiments of tenderness, to the more calm sensations of friendship. — He told me So, Henny; should I disbelieve the flattering
■)
accents?
When we were Seated in the chaise, he took me by the hand : — How kind — • how tender — how like the amiable miss Danby, this friendly attendance upon
©ur poor Emily I — Oh I miss Danby,
D 2 how
0
5^
how many instances do you daily give of your exquistte fenstbility! — He looked at me — he fixed his fine eyes on mine, till I was unable to reply.
/
I trembled — I was too visibly confused. Oh! my beloved Charlotte, Says he. Snatching that hand to his lips, which he till then held in his, words are too faint to tell how tenderly I love you — Forgive me, forgive me, my dear Miss Danby, (Seeing I began to look grave) the abruptness of this declaration : — long has my heartfelt the most tender sensations for you — long have I adored the too amiable Charlotte, but never till now had an Opportunity of declaring the violence of my passion— — you, miss Danby, by an unkind refusal, plunge into despair the man who adores you beyond his being?
For heavsh’s Sake, Mr. Ravensworth, replied I, disengaging my hand from his, what can be the meaning of declarations
I
so astonishing, and So utterly improper:
! are
r'
. X
 7
are not you, Sir, engaged to miss Ravensworth? — and should not I, by encouraging addresses So entirely contrary to the views of your whole family, be acting a part, which would draw on me she odium, and nbglect of every friend both on your Side and my own r — cease, Mr. Ravensworth, for heavbn’s sake, cease proposals So very absurd, and let me suppose this the effect of raillery, in order to make us both Sora short time forget the danger of your lovely cousin.
No, miss Danby, Says he, never will I cease to adore you — How can you suppose, I would railly on, a Subject on which depends ray present, and future
I
happiness. His true, when we were children, Emily and I, by parents, who could not answer for what turn our inclinations might take, were designed for each other : — stis likewise true, that till I was acquainted with the lovely Charlotte Danby, I thought I should be happy
D 3 with
0
35
with my destin’d ■vyife, as she has every quality to make herfeif agreeable; but one — that one, my Charlotte, which
you so eminently possess— — feeling, a
$
tender, susceptibie heart. — But had I been even inclined to adore her, my portion must have been the greatest misery; as you See plainly, she is fully determined not to love me — Oh, Miss Danby! can that gentle disposition change itself, only to make the man who dotes on you, unhappy? — Even Emily herself, i’m Sure, would strenuously plead my cause : — but I would owe your pity to my own per fuasions.
He looked at me again, and paused with trembling eagerness for my answer. — • The agitation, which Seemed to take pos sestion of his whole frame, and the e: <pres stve eloquence S his eves, and lanffuage,
i J ^ o o ^
joined to the fluttering of a fond heart, which had long been his, overcame me: :
— I could make no reply.
Ah!
#
 9
Ah! Henny, how tender, how amiable, the Solicitude he expressed for me,! I could no lona; er withll: iid his instances.
o
I promis’d, if he could obtain the consent of his own friends, and my aunt’s, I should not oppose his inclinations.
I need not tell you the ecstasies he vas in; nor will I descube to you my own sensations. — You, who So tenderly dote upon your Harry, can easily suppose the whole.
We arrived, in this state of mind, at the inn which contained our Emily. — Youns:
o
Blanche met us at the door, and I was conducted upstairs to emily’s apartment. She put by the curtain, when She heard my voice, and Seemed to be transported to an uncommon degree of spirits. I am now writing in her room : she Sends the tenderest love to you, and to her dear grandmother. Adieu, my love; belieye me Your Sincere friend,
Charlotte Daney.
D 4
40
%
LET T E R XXX
Miss Danby to miss Seagrove.
Emily is rather worsc, my dear
Henny. — The joy at feeing her cousm'and me, has overpowered her Spirits,
and increased her disorder. — She would
«
not Suffer me to remove from her bedside, all the night, I arrived here, and her topgue run So glibly, that I was really afraid the consequences would be disagreeable.
Her leg too is extremely bad, and helps to heighten the violence of her fever. — • She has been all this day, at times, lightheaded : young Blanche raves almost as ■much as herself. He is altered within these Sev/ days, to an astonishing degree : He neither eats, nor Ileeps, and hardly breathes, but when we talk to him of her.
My amiable Ravensworth (yes, my dear friend, I vv^ill call him mine, since he has Riveii me Such ccnvincin? proofs
O A '■
of
MISS RAVENSV/ORTH. 41
of his affection) told him yesterday. That he Saw plainly the violent passion, he entertained for the lovely Emily. — The youth Seemed confounded, fetched a Sigh, and owned. That he believed it impossible for any man to behold the amiable miss Ravensworth with indifference; and that to behold her, in Such a sttuation, was rather more than he could bear, without experiencing the most extreme anguish, at the probability there vas of lostng her for ever.
■ Young Ravensworth told him. He hoped his tenderness had exaggerated her danger; that he did not doubt but to See her recover, and make him ' completely happy; — A happiness, he knew no man more truly worthy of.
Edward, (for So they call him) began
» • • t D
to put on a Serious countenance, and Said, The then uneasy state of his mind, cohld but indifferently brook any kind of rail jlery; that he was Senstble of miss Ravens
worth's
i
wop.th’s pre engagements, and had never had a hope beyond that cf Seeing her, and. beiiio; now and then entertained with her
o
as; reeable conversation *, and therefere he thoup ht Mr. ravensworth’s hints, ' at
O y
that time, a little md.l a bropos.
J. L
I turned pale at this Speech — Oh, how
%
I trembled! lest these two most amiable men should, through a Slight misunderstanding, est their difference by a Serious quarrel. But had you Seen my Dicky — oh Henny, I shall adore him for it, as long as I live — - had you Seen how he put an end to my apprehensions, bv the oblig ingness of his answer, you must have loved him almost as velli do, my dear,
Blanche, Says the stveet lad, forgive me, if I have not Spoke intelligibly; I meant to affure you, that my engagements \vith m v coustn are at an end; that I adore this angel here. Seizing my hand, beyond every bicffing this world, without her, can afford; — and that miss emily’s tenderness tor her generous deliverer, is equal
with
s
MISS KAV h/n S WORTH. 43
with his own; and that when she recovers, which I hope will be very Soon, I shall be happy in Seeing a couple united, who, from their many admirable qualities, cannot fail of being truly blessed in each other; especially, as I hope this late event will help to tame a few of my little
coussn’s wild, untractable movements.
\
Oh! not for the world, says young Blanche, interrupting him; not for the universe, would I have one alteration made in that angelic woman. — I adore that Sweet gaiety and liveliness of temper which she possesses, beyond anything I ever yet met with, in any other vroman. Forgive the eagerness of my expressions, Mr. Ravensworth. — I cannot doubt your Sincerity; and novr I am at liberty to open to you the Sentiments of my heart, my tongue will never ceasc acknowledging it’s gratitude, nor eirpatiating upon the merits of the divine Emily. — But ah, Says he, the tears startins; into his eves, hov/ can I
give
4
give way to any joyful sensations, while she lies in So dangerous an illness; or how dare I flatter myself, if she recovers, that she will show me more favour than the many who have Solicited before me, and been refused.
Hold, 'Says Ravensworth, let me catch you piping in the tragic strain once more, and I shall absolutely wish you as
unsuccessful, as I am Sure you will be, otherwise : pluck up your Spirits, man, and rejoice at the partiality she has already sh ewn you. — Egad, I question for all her confinement, if she had Seen me under her window, that she would have jumped out to me, — tvhat a plague, would you have her take you about the neck, and kiss you? — She has testified as much of
J
her regard for you, I think, as any reasonable man can desire; and she does noshing but talk of you night and day : (indeed, he Said very true, for his name is never out of her mouth for half an hour together, Sensible, or otherwise.)
 ^
Oh 1 excuse my fears. Says Blanche; but what will it avail me to know my happiness, if it should be immediately Snatched from me. Oh! I cannot bear the thoughts of Iofing her.
Upon my word, Mr. Blanche, interrupted your friend Charlotte, you fill me with such melancholy ideas, that I shall Soon be in as desponding a Situation as yourself, if you don’t cheer up.
Rot your despondencies, Says the lively
Ravensworth; I vow, Blanche, if you
instil these gloomy thoughts into my Sweet girl here, I shall bear you malice for it, and try to mar your fortunes. it’s rr, y belief, if my Sprightly ccufin knew what a whining Swain she had got, fire would discard him, in Spite of all her present fondness.
Oh! for heaven’s Sake, excuse me, returned the youth, my fears and love dis tract me : let us take a walk, and put off these uneasy sensations. — Agreed on ail
Sides. —
4
Sides. ■ — A walk we took, which in Some degree answered the end proposed. — After this v/alk, I went to see our Emily, who was fallen into a Sweet slumber, while I write you this; may heaven restore this lovely girl to all our wishes, is the Sincere prayer of.
Your affectionate friend,
Charlotte Danby.
LETTER XXXI
The same to the Same.
WHY, my friend; ah! why must I
ever be the messenger of ill news? The doctor has just left miss Ravensworth, and her fever is got to Such a height, that he apprehends her life to be in great danger. Mr. blanche’s Servant is dispatched for a physician from London, tho’ we are in great fear, it will be to little purpose
• « must the vvorld be deprived of it’s
greatest ornament? Oh! Henny, I hardly

 7
ly know what I write. — She began to grow worse yesterday; tho’ stie is, and has been Since I wrote my last, perfectly sensible.
She Sent for me up this morning, after breakfast, and desired me to stt down by her. - — She put her hand out of bed, and taking hold of mine — My dear char lotte, Says ihe, I find myself considerably worse— — don’t make yourself uneasy, my love; Seeing the tears start from, my eyes — it is yet possible, tho’ I fancy hardly probable, that I may recover; and is I do not, my good miss Danby ought not to envy me an exchange, which I flatter myself will be for my advantage. — Confider, it is our bufiness in this world, to endeavour at arming ourselves ao; ainst
O O
the many misfortunes we are daily liable to meet with; and when you reflect on the many friends and relations, to whom your life and health are So truly valuable, you will not, I am Sure, give way to an unavailing
4s
availing Sorrow, vrhich, by indulging it, may destroy either one or both of them.
Oh, miss Ravensworth, for heaven’s Sake, Spare me. Says I — I cannot bear to hear you Seriously talk on So distracting a Subject— — life is of very little con sequence, when put in competition with the many who will Suffer for the loss of yours. Poor Mrs. Ravensworth — do you think she will ever outlive her beloved granddaughter; or do you imagine the amiable Blanche will not follow his adored Emily?
Oh! my dear miss Danby, Says the sweet girl, I am Sincerely touched at the thoughts of what they will Suffer; but I hope it will be but for a short time. I hope their good sense will Soon get the better of their affiiction, on my account, and teach them not to repine at the decrees of Providence. — I love my dear grandmother with the tenderest affection : — I never knew a parent but herfeif. — I love
and
 9
and honour her as the most respectable of characters; but I know her philosophy and religion, will enable her to conquer her regret at an event, which. Sooner or later, we must all Submit to.
As to Blanche, I own it to you, my dear friend, that I loved him from the first moment I beheld him. — The generous assistance I received from him, at a time I was left almost without hope, has doubly endeared him to my heart; and the tender concern he has testified for me since, make me wish, I could have lived to have acknowledged the great Sense I have of his: uncommon merit. But cheer up, my amiable Charlotte, for my sake compose your Spirits, and endeavour to bestow that comfort upon the lovely Edward, his youth and strength of paffiosts, I fear, will stand So much in need of.
Will you not promise your Emily this mark of friendship, my sweet lass?. Says: she, an enchanting Smile diffusing itself vol.ii. E over
s
V
56
over her languid, but ever beautiful countenance: — Do, my Charlotte, becom pofed, if not for my Sake, for that of my young cousin;; yourself for him; he dotes upon you, miss Danby : I have Seen him give Such proofs of it Since my present illness, that I know his life depends on yours. Do not then, my dear girl, destroy it by an ill timed grief. Come, continued she, finding I was unable to answer her, but by my tears — I see I have affected you too deeply; leave me,
my dear miss Danby; I think I am
rather inclinable to sleep, and I hope when you return to me again, I shall See you in better Spirits,
In the most agonising state of mind I rose up, and left the room; fearing the
>
violence of my agitations might discompose and prejudice this amiable woman. When I came down, Mr. Ravensworth Saw I had been in tears: he tenderly inquired the cause, and in broken accents
I made
4
/
 !
I made shift to repeat most of our conversation; but before I had done Speakings Blanche fell iifeless to the floor. Our wshole attention was now employed in recovering him; but it was two hours, before he vas quite Senstble*
We had him carried up to bed, and Sent again for emily’s doctor, who Seems to be a very clever man. He bled him 5 and he is now in as bad a Situation as her selst He raves about her continually; and my poor Dicky is, between the two, almost in as pitiable a condition as either of them
Oh Henny, Henny, if she dies, what will; what must be done to break it too
Mrs. Ravensworth? Mrs Clayton
too will hardly Survive the news; and I am almost thrown into a state of stupid infenstbility, at the melancholy shocking prospects Such a calamity presents.
May heav’n avert a Scene, which will in all likclihocd prove fatal to So many worthy
E 2 hearts.
s
0
hearts, deserving of a better Sat. — Ob!
that vile Lord Wilton — what has not
%
he to answer for Me has been dangerously ill, I hear, from a wound received in fkirmishing with Mr. Blanche; a circumstance, his modesty always omitted, in his relation of that affair; and which we should not have been acquainted with, but this being the market town to that, and Several adjacent villages, the Servants heard it mentioned by Some country fellows at the inn, and repeated it again to Mr. Ravensworth.
How unaccountable does it appear, in the sight of us weak mortals, that such wretches as him are Suffered to walk about the earth with impunity, and to recover from the most dangerous illneffes; while the more worthy part of mankind, are either visited by the keenest misfortunes, or else Snatched from life, in the prime of youth and health! — But it is certainly right, or elfe that just Providence, who
presides
missiravensworth. 5.5
^ _
presides over us all, would not Suffer it to be. Adieu, my friend, — may you Soon be relieved from those anxieties you have So long struggled with, prays
Your afflicted,
Charlotte Danby.
LETTER XXXII
Richard Ravensworth, esq;
To Mrs. Clayton.
Prepare yoursels, my dear Mrs.
Clayton, to be made acquainted with the most heartrending news, that one of your Sympathising, friendly dis pofition, can be told. The once gay, lively Emily, is — at this time, that I am writing, perhaps no more. She has Some time been dangerously ill, as I Sent you word by the messenger that went to town Sora physscian. — When he came, he Said, It was too late — The most persect of her Sex was gone for ever : — it was next to an impossibility, she should ever be restored.
E 3 She
5
She Spoke to him with calmness, and composure; and when he left her, sum ^ mon’d us all into her bedroom. Blanche was ill in bed; but on hearing that Ihe had Sent for him, insifted upon attending us. — Never was there a more melancholy Scene. — We all entered together. — The once lovely Emily, Supported by pillows, was raised up in bed, and made a motion with her hand, for us to come near.
How shocking a sight! to see that beauteous form, — pale — languid — emaciated — her eyes sunk in her head — and tho’ still amiable, altered past our knowledge.
We continued Some time filent, while she was making efforts to raise her voice to an intelligible pitch. — The lovely chart LOTTE Danby, hardly able to Support herself, sat weeping on a chair beside her: — Young Blanche, with eyes, which Spoke more forcibly than words, fix’d with gst the agonies of despair upon this adored
object,
w
 5
■object, stood on t’other fide; and myself, I believe, almost equally entranced with affliction, placed next to Miss Danby. — At last she Spoke, and addressed Jierfelf to me with a half Smile.
Come near me, cousin— — I frighten you? — I believe I have lost a little of my usual bloom; but I am not quite such a Spectacle as I shall be to your views in a Sew hours. Adieu, my dear Dicky, continued she. — -1 Sancy, the physscian Has not left you ignorant of my true state — I Sent for you, to take my leave for ever, and to desire you, as my last request, to break this affair as lightly as possible to my ever valued parent. — Endeavour to comfort her, my dear coustn, for the loss of a child, I know she fondly loves — Tell her I am going where I hope I shall be happy; and that I begged it, on my deathbed, she would preserve So estimable a life, for the good of those people who ate happy enough so call her, either rela
E 4 tion
56
tion or friend — don’t weep, Dicky, (feeing me put my handkerchief to my eyes) You are a man — act as one r and when you will give yourself time for reflection, you will find, that you ought to bestow your tears and compassion on the afflicted living, and not on the peaceful assies of the dead. — I think, my dear cousin, you possess a worthy heart; may you never Swerve from it’s dictates; and I think I need not make it my request, that you will ever make a tender and affectionate husband to this deserving girl, turning to miss Danby. — And you, my dear Charlotte — will you promise me before I die, that you will bestow your hand on a man, who, I am certain, centres all his happiness in you alone?
Indeed, my good friends, I am most Sincerely concerned to See you all thus afflicted at an event So common, and, at one time or other. So very certain. — What Say you, my dear Charlotte — will
you
MISS R AV ENSWORTH. 57
you comply with the lass: request your Emily will ever make? Believe me, if I did not think it for your mutual welfare, I should not ask it.
Oh! ma’am, says miss Danby, I would and will comply with any dessre of yours; but live, live, my dear Emily, or we never can be truly blessed.
I am Satisfied, my dear, returned the dying beauty: lise is not in my own dis posal, or else I would willingly live to See you all as happy as you deserve; and to return you. Sir, addressing herfeif to Mr. Blanche, a few of those obligations you have So generoussy bestowed upon me. — What, filent too? perceiving he Seemed hardly to mind what she Said — Will not you add one more Savour, to those already conferred, and oblige me, by promising, that you will endeavour to restrain your grief?
He burst into tears; a relief which brought him to himself, and made him
more
5
more sensible of the Scene before him. — She held out an alabaster hand, and begged in the most Soothing terras, that he would be comforted.
Oh sny Emily, says? he, at last collecting Isis voice. Speak not of comfort to a ■wretest like me. — Oh heaven! Support me in this trying moment, and Suffer me, at least:, if I cannot keep her with me, to accompany this Sweet angel to the grave.
He Ipoke' this with Such energy of woe, that stie was affected by it. — She wept too; asiid Suffering him to clasp her in his arms, femed to want equally with him, some of that comfort, she bad, in vain, been endeavouring to administer to us. At last, jraiffng herself up, and giving me a paper: ' — That contains, says she, my bequests fa few remembrances to my friends; — see, my dear eousin, that they be punctually executed. — Remember me ^ to Mrs. Clayton, and tell her, I wished o stave given her a parting kiss. — She
then
 9
then embraced us all: and falling once more into the arms of her vountr lover —
J o
Said — Adieu! — r be comforted — and never Spoke again.
When he found she was quite infen sible, he fell motionless to the ground; as did the lovely Charlotte. — Oh! Mrs. Clayton, never was there So tragical a Scene; — but, is I ever live to meet the detested cause, the execrable Wilton, he
shall pay dear for the Sufferings he has inflicted on us all, I, almost as lost to sensation as themselves, had them removed out of the room; and upon examining the charming Emily again, found that she still breathed, tho’ too much Spent to talk,
I stayed by her, till the doctor arrived; who Said, if she was yet sensible, it would be better to leave her to herfeif. I then went to see the two unhappy objects, this dreadful catastrophe had made; and they are both very ill. Charlotte vrill Soon, recover, the stodtor Says, but poor Blanche
is
r
'6o
is in Some danger. In this Situation I left them all, to give you this melancholy relation. Adieu, my dear Mrs. Clayton. — I dare not Send an account of this
i
to the family, but must trust to your prudence to break it to them. I am •
Yshur very obedient humble Servant,
: Richard Ravensworth.
LETTER XXXIII
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
she’s mine, she’s mine. Bob, beyond the reach of fate. — The charming Kitty has, at length, amply repaid me for all my trouble, with that little d... 1 Emily. Now for thy Le Deum. — Oh! Bob, ho'iv shall I find words to express the triumphant joy, which at this time diffuses itself round my heart. — To attempt a description would be daring, did I even pos sess the eloquence of the immortal Cicero.
Nay, (I hear you say) d.. n your cicero’s, and your eloquence, Charles,
give
r
 i
give me but the whole account legibly, and in downright English, and TH forgive thee this delay. — Oh! thou poltroon — and So thou think’st, I will at once let thee into Such a Scene of victory; — No, no —
to
Bob, ’twould be too much for thee — thy envious Soul would, in it’s first transports, willi me at the d.. 1, and make thee curse thy dull stars, for not throwing Such fortune in thy way.
Now do I See thee bite thy lip, and threaten my poor letter with a roasting, if
to
I don’t Soon come to the point. — Do, if you dare. Bob; think but So again, and my pen is stopped for ever.
Well, but my dear Charles, have Some compassion on my curiosity. — Oh! thou incorrigible dog! — And So, thou can’st in one breath curse, bite thy lips, and flatter, when thou think’st there is any iniquity going forward, with which thou would’st be made acquainted. — Well, Bos, good words go a great way with me; and So I
will.
62
will, as soon as I can can collect my Scattered thoughts, give thee as good an account as I am able.
I think I told thee in my last, that the young rascal, who took. Emily away, gave me a wound in the arm. — ’tis that wound to which I am in a great measure indebted for my present happiness. Faith, Bob, I never had So good an opinion before of that old proverb, which Says, ’tis a bad wind that blows no body good. For, egad, had any one told me a month ago, that I should think myself fortunate in being shot through the arm — I should have been almost ready to have shot him thro’ the head.
When I came to myself, aster the above accident, I found Kitty weeping over me, and a Surgeon dressing my wound. — : • Tho’ I was not then in a condition, to take advantagi; e of the tender concern she showed for me, .yet I was determined not to delay it a moment after I was able; and accordingly,

4
 3
ingly, as I grew better, took hold every occasion to make myself agreeable to her, and likewise to persuade her, she was perfectly So to me.
The dear girl received my asduides with a modest timidity; and I Ijelieve, had she thou; ht I was either able or will ling to have taken advantage of her fixation, in being So near me, she wosism certainly have avoided it. Oh I Bos, ■what raptures did I not enjoy, in receiving everything I took from her dear lovely hands! The most nauseous medicines, when given by her, were delicious. — Her charming Soothings so alleviated the pain I felt in having the ball extracted, that egad, I would almost undergo it again, to have z repetition of them.
Am I not then a villain, Bob, thus to repay this dear girl for all her teiaderiiefs; to bring shame and Sorrow upon a (tsii now) virtuous family, under whoso roof I was thus friendly protected? — Oh Boa,
libertine
6
libertine as I am, I could ahnoft wish the deed undone again. - — Nay, don’t laugh at me. — Conscience will sting us now and then, but I will chase the intruder hence. Avaunt — begone — there, ’tis gone — and I am again thy precious brother in iniquity. — Well then — to proceed with my story. — > Kitty continued to nurse me,
till I was almost well; (and faith, I be
/
myself totally indebted to her great care, for my so Speedy recovery) during which time, I was planning a Scheme, to take her Sweet unsuspecting innocence off it’s guard. An accident happened t’other day, which brought my project to bear much Sooner than my most Sanguine wishes could expect.
Old Ploughshare, a neighbouring farmer, had a ion married; and having got a pretty good portion, as they call it, with his wife, the old Don was So pleased, that almost all the country round were invited;
harrow’s Samily consequently. • — Out of
respect
MISS ravensworth. 6>
respect: to their noble guest, they would have excused themselves; but I inststed So strenuously on their going, that they were forced to obey— — as they were all ready to Sally forth, in their best doublets and hofei contriv’d, to have a relapse. — A fainting fit. Bob : — and by that means had like to have detained them at home — but that was not vrhat I wanted. — The charming Kitty, beautiful as an angel, little suspecting she was decked for sacrifice, was the only one whom I wanted to detain. Accordingly, as soon as I thought proper to come to myself, and Saw the family around me, I inststed upon their going. But as they could not think of leaving my lordship alone, (and I fuppose not dreaming I was in a condition to do her any harm, even if inclin’d that way, which I dare say they never thought of) desired, Kitty might stay with me. — With feign’d reluctance, I at length complied with their request; and Kitty — nothing loath — was my companion.
vol, II F' My
%
6
My rascal took care of the maid. And after Supper I began the attack, by assuring the dear girl of my inviolable attachment to her — telling her I could not live without her; - — that I had entirely given up all thoughts of Miss Ravensworth; — and that I would certainly marry her at the death of my father, on whom I was entirely dependant, and who would dismherit me, if I made choice of a wife without his approbation : (the only cafe. Bob, in which I would, even upon a supposition, have brought my father out of his grave again, where, thank heaven, he has been laid these three years.)
Your father, my lord! I thought you had none living. — Yes, my angel, returned I; but his great age and infirmities, which hinder him from appearing much in the world, is, I suppose, the reason why you have not heard Speak of him. — I Saw she believ’d, and was affected; and there
•9
sore left out no entreaty or assiduity which
might
I
 7
might induce her to comply. — At lengthy with the greatest; difficulty, I conquered all, her Scruples.
You know, I have a tongue (as Richard Says) can wheedle with the d... 1.” — And faith I needed it all afterwards : — for when my Sweet angel began to reflect on the faux pas she had been guilty of, her Sorrow broke out into the most; bitter invectives against her own credulity; (for she never once accused me So that it was wish the greatest difficulty I could get her composed again.
However, I sofar did, as to drive away all traces of her grief before the old folks returned. - — Ever stnce, she has been better reconciled to her Sat, and in a Sew days I propose taking her to town; tho’ how to accomplish shat wishout her parents knowledge, is an affair I want your advice in, knowing the Sertility of your brain in, these kind of inventions. — Adieu, Bob; write immediately; and believe me stncerely yours,
Charles Wilton
f2
68 YHE history OF
(»
\
LETTER XXXIV
Sir Robert Boyle — In answer.
Faith, my lord, — had I not been perfectly well acquainted with your lordihip’s handwriting, and known too the circumstance of your being at harrow’s, I should have either doubted my Senses, or thought Some one had forged your hand. — Why, your lordship’s brain must certainly be affected by the wound in your arm, to make you write in such a style to me, about the mere trifle of triumphing over the virtue of a childish country girl, and a daughter of one of your tenants. — And then, I think, Charles, you had so much of the Sool in you, as to wish the work undone — Why at the rate thou goest on at, thou wilt presently be able
to open a Tabernacle, and like w...d
and W ... .J preach up resormation to all $hy late brothers in iniquity, and conjure
them
i.va J. O XX V Yf W TV A AXE Uy
them to take thee for an example, and quit
the road to d............n.
Oh 1 fie, — fie — Charles; little did I
%
expect to have my advice alked about Such a foolish idle Scheme as that of carrying the little Syren Kitty up to town. — I was in hopes, now thou art a Sound man again, to have heard thee vowing destruction on the head of that Saucy intruder and Spoiler of thy happiness, and the little runaway, Emily : nay, I should not have been surpriz’d if thou had’st got her again into thy power, and serv’d her in the manner she deserves — When instead of that, comes a letter filled with as much bom bastical nonsense, as if thou had’st de. bauched a duke’s daughter or a Nun —
o
O tempora f O mores! — How art thou ' fallen off from thy once noble Self, and our noble cause!! — a pretty figure
\
wilt thou make when any of emily’s relations shall accost thee in town with — ^ Your Servant, my lord: — I hope miss
F l ravensrr
to,,. -
jirit nibi(jky ujb
Ravensworth is well; and that your lordship is perfectly recovered of the wound in your arm? — Or perhaps — If your lord ship is So far recovered, as to be able to vindicate the injury you offered our family,
I shall be glad to see you at nine tomorrow morning, behind Montague House. Yours, c.
Really, Charles, these things will amply repay thee the expense and trouble both of mind and body, which thou hast been at. — Yet, thou can’st tamely Sit down with the possession of a poor sarmer’s daughter, style thyself a happy fellow, and Send posl for mv advice, hov/ to take her
L J ^
to town without her parents consent.
Oh! thou reptile; and dost thou rea lly think I would deign to give my counsel in a matter which will redound So little to
I
thy credit? — No' — no— — my opinion is that you immediately give all your Soft nonsensical transport, and the cause of ’em to the winds. — Instantly
den art
V ^.. i
A
/

depart in quest of Emily, and her knight errant; — blow him to the d... 1, and take what revenge on her thou think’st best. — If ever thou fet’st any value on my advice, follow it now, and I shall be always ready to assist thee with if in future. Spare no pains to get her into your power again : and in the mean time, I will Set Some of my myrmidons to work, and if she be aboveground I think ’twill be impossible for her to escape us all — Adieu, Charles; Revenge is the word.
Robert Boyle,
.LETTER XXXV
%
miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Pvirs. Clayton.
Look again, Maria. — Yes, the Superscription is in emily’s hand to be Sure — the name at the bottom too is hers, — bless me, I thought the girl had
V
lien dead a week ago! — Ay, may be So;
F 4 but
/ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- —
but I told you once before, I had the old
m ^
proverb on my fide; if you did not believe me then, you do now, I hope.
I am indeed, after being given up by the physicians, and despaired of by all my friends, at last, in a fair way of being restored to life and them. — I have been very ill, and still keep my bed; but being told by cousin Dick, with a long phiz, that he had wrote a melancholy epistle to my dear Mrs. Clayton prognosticating
the exit of her friend, I determined to con
%
it myself, by Setting pen to paper in propria persona, tho’ I am still very weak. Poor Charlotte Danby looks very
4
ill : — they tell me, she has never left my bed stde till within these two days, that shejsaw me absolutely out of danger; nor complied with the repeated Solicitations of my coustn Ravensworth, to take a little rest.
Young Blanche — heigh ho I (why Ip I Sigh, Maria? — 'I think this illnett'
has
MISS ravensworl’h. 73
has deprived me of my usual Spirits) looks like an absolute ghost: — he has been dying too. — I think we are a most tragical collection of phizzes at present. — cousin Dick, who, you know, used to fancy himself handsome, looks almost asr emaciated as the rest of them. — As for me, as I am determined never to, think myself ugly, I have not thought proper yet to call for a giass; and as none of those about
me dare mention anything of an alteration
#
in my countenance, I remain still of opinion that I am perfectly beautiful.
here’s a strange little apothecary; quite a contrast to that gentleman, whom the famous Shakespeare brings us acquainted with, in his play of Romeo and Juliet; is the only well thriven soul that appears in ir.y room; and he talks me into the vapours, and out of them again, a dozen times, before I can get quit of him. — Holds forth most learnedly on the nature of fevers in R'nerast and of mine in oar
O ' r ^
ticular;
\
/
7
ticular; which, he Says, was of a most stubborn and dangerous nature: — renders himself grcit merit on my being so well recovered; bestows a Small share on Providence, and none at all in the physscians; declaring that he has more knowledge in every kind of fever, and indeed in diseases in general, than all the faculty put together; and that if he had not entirely altered the medicines ordered by theire, I should not now have been among the living. This is a piece of Secret history, which, had I slept with my forefathers, would, I suppose, have been buried in oblivion.
However, to give little Dapper his due, I believe him to have Some Ikili in his profession; and after having returned most of, my thanks to heaven, who has undoubtedly had the greatest hand in restoring me, I bestow the rest on him. — As he knows
f.
the news of the whole town and country, he acquainted me, that yesterday lord
wiltcn
to
s
 5
Wilton carried off the farmer’s daughter, in whose house I was confined; and the parents, whose only child she was, remain almost heart broke at the loss of her.
That man will one day meet with the
reward of all his wickedness- -- I
heavens, here comes my little diascor dium. — Where shall I hide my letter? — But here he is. — Now for a Scold, on the imprudence of venturing so Soon to hurry my Spirits by Such an exercise. — Ay, I thought So. — Stay, i’ll give him you yjerhatim.
bless me, madam, (significantly shaking his peruke, for I can hardly perceive he has any head, and pulling down a pair of enormous point rustles) what can you be about? — Sure my eyes must deceive me! You certainly are not writing? Pray, let me feel your pulse. — I fear Some alteration for the worse, in consequence of your imprudence. My good Sir, I have just
finished, and then my pulse is very much
» *•
%
♦
1
y6
at your Service. bless me, madam, Says he, turning to Charlotte, why would you Suffer the young lady to write So Soon? Upon my word, I can never answer for the efficacy of medicines, while my orders are disobeyed.
Indeed, Sir, replied Charlotte, I have dissuaded her all in my power, but she would not be contradicted. — You know, my dear madam, says he, turning to me, I ordered you to be kept warm, and by no means Suffered to Sit up; you have not yet Sufficient strength for it. Constder the very dangerous sttuation you have escaped from, and take care of a relapse, for if that should happen, it is not in the power of medicine to Save you. — » At this they all take the alarm. — Blanche too, who hitherto has not dared to control me, now joins the doctor. — ^ One moment, good people — pray, let me finish, and i’ll be perfectly obedient to your orders.' — Oh! this wicked Charlotte;
Spare
 7
spare my pen a moment, while I say Adieu, to my beloved Maria, and conclude myself her affectionate friend,
Emily Ravensworth.
t
%
LETTER XXXVI
$
Miss Danby to miss Seagrove.
At last, my dear Henrietta, we
are relieved from our anxiety, and I can once more resume my pen, with a heart grown light in proportion as I find the dear Emily out of danger. — What I, and indeed what we have all Suffered from her late illness, is better Selt by So susceptibie a mind as yours, than described by the pen of the most elegant writer. —
She has been given up by us all, and we waited in hourly expectation of her death. This is the reason, why you have not heard from me. — -1 have been half distracted; — thank heaven, our fears are now at an end.
She'
to
fi
She sent for us all up Some time ago, and took a formal leave, with a calmness and Sortitude uncommon in the moss: aged
O
people, worn out with infirmities and mis fortunes; much more in a young beauty, in the bloom of youth, and the greatest prosperity. After stie had talked to us, till her strength was exhausted. She Sainted in the arms of young Blanche; and Mr. Ravensworth, together with the
doctor, who just dien entered, thinking her quite gone, bore the young lover, and myself, hardly Senstble, out of the room : however, it was but a stt, which being Succeeded by a gentle slumber, turned out less tragically than we expected. — The apothecary, and her cousm, Sat up with her all night; and the next day, we found there were still very distant hopes of her recovery.
Mr. Blanche, and myself, were again Suffered to attend her bed stde; and with joy we observed, in a few days, that she was growing infinitely better, tho’ all that
time.
0

time she did not appear the least sensible,
At last she began to talk reasonably; and the first person she inquired for, was her intended. I need not repeat to you, the ecstasies of the young inamorato, at this mark of distinction; for my own part, I was quite angry and could have almost beat the dear girl, for not giving the preference to me, who had Suffered So Severely on her account.
She is now, my dear Henny, So well that she grows quite Saucy — we can hardly keep her within any kind of bounds— — ^ does nothing but entertain herfeif, with ridiculing the figure of the little doctor, who attends her, and Scolding master Neddy; whom i’ll affure you, she already begins to keep in very great Subjection. I Sometimes provoke her, by Saying, he will retort it all upon herfeif, as Soon as she is married. — She cannot bear the thoughts of being tied, as she calls it;
and yet in her hearty cannot help Sincerely

# ' N ■
♦
4
80
ly wishing herself united to a man so every way amiable, and with whom she is most violently in love.
The agreeable Ravensworth, now his cousin is almost well, bestov/s his whole attention on me; and we are as cheerful a party quarree at present, as you would wish to see. I Sancy, in about a sortnight’s time, we shall be able to travel, by short stages, to London; from whence, in a short time, miss Ravensworth will return to H.. .: and, is no sinister accident happens to prevent it, I believe I shall accompany her.
Oh! my dear Henny, sincerely do I wish myself with you again, that I might at least assist to make your time pafs a little more pleasantly, than I fear it has done for some time past. Adieu, my love; write to me soon, and believe me
Your most affectionate friend,
Charlotte Danby,
%
- t
✓
r’.,
r.. • *.
Miss ravensworth.
LETTER XXXVII
miss Seagrove to miss Danby.
I Received yours, my dear charlottr, and at the same time a letter from Mrs, Clayton, acquainting us likewise, that Emily was out of danger. — We have been pretty near in as distracted a sttuation here, as you could be at C... Oh! that Sweet girl I what has she not gone thro’?
A lady came here Some time ago, of the name of Sandham. — She is a relation of Mrs. clayton’s, and was sent by her to announce the afflicting news of miss ravensworth’s dangerous illness : She came in with a countenance, in which was strongly depicted the alarming cause of her errand. — After she had sat Some time, she begged to Speak with Mr. Ravensworth in private; and there informed him of his grandson’s dreadful letter.
vol. II G I was
fa
4
I was sent for into the study: the old gentleman unable to Speak, refer’d me to Adrs. Sandham, who, drowned in tears, (for she has been acquainted with our Sweet
Emily) related to me the whole affair.
/
Judge, my dear Charlotte, if my Situation was then better than theirs. — I Sunk into a chair; and we all remained
I ^
Silent for Some time. — At length, Mr, Ravensworth Spoke — Assist me, my dear miss Seagrove — tell me, for god’s sake, in what manner it will be possible for me to break this affair to my wife : — She has already been very uneasy, at not hearing from her grandaughter. — What will be her affiiction, when she hears these rnelancholy tidings? — I fear it will be too much Spr her. Oh! Mrs. Sandham,
V.
Sne was the prop of my old age, the best
A
comfort this world afforded me.. — At these \yords he burst into tears, and we again renewed our Silent lamentations. When words could find their way, we agreed to
break

breakittomrs. Ravensworth by degrees; first telling her of emily’s being run away with (a circumstance as yet unknown to to her) and then of her being taken ill on the road.
An opportunity offered that afternoon. Miss Patty, and Tommy Ravens: worth, went out with Mrs. Sandham,
m
to show her the park and gardens : — and Mrs. Ravensworth began, by ashing. Who she was, and what brought her oil a visit to their house? — We informed her, that Mrs. Clayton had sent her with a message about Emily; who had been carried off by lord Wilton, and had not yet been heard of. — Lucky was it for us we went no further : hardly could she bear this. — Her agonies were so great, that we feared two or three times they would be fatal to her. — Behold, the poor old gentle man, in fresh affiiction. — Oh I Charlotte, it is not always money that is capable of bestowing happiness: - — fain
_
G 2 would
/
84
would he, I dare say, have Sacrificed all bis darling hoards, to have Saved his grandaughter from the grave, and, his wife from the poignant grief in which She was plunged : but these calamities are what riches cannot remedy, and/all our efforts
A
to console her were vain. — She grew So ill, fly was obliged to keep her chamber; and upon repeated anxious inquiries about her dear child, as she calls her, we were obliged to inform her of her being ill.
Till yesterday, she has pierced all our hearts with her complaints; but the receipt of two such joyful letters. Set u all to rights again; — and Mr. Ravensworth, as nimble as fifteen, ran upstairs to his wife, to communicate the happy contents
of them.
V'
We are now all composed again., — Master Tommy has really fret more about his cousm, than I thought it possible' for him to do on any occasion; but miss Patty Seemed notin the least affected;
and
MISS RAVENSWOR.TH.
and when the news came of her niece’s recovery. Said, with a disdainful toss of her head; — She never thought there was any danger; but there was always more fufs about that girl, than if all the family bestdes were to die.
/
Her father Seemed really shocked at her insenstbility: and Tommy made answer, That as he did not believe his aunt had flesh and blood about her, he could not wonder she had not natural Seelings like othersolks. — This (constderingmiss patty’s figure, which is literally nothing but Skin and bone) was really droll, and made us all laugh; which put the lady into Such a passion, that she told him, she should be Sorry to be made of the same materials with Such a sapscull as him; and if he gave her any more of his impudence, she should box his ears, and teach him better manners.
Then by G. d. i’ll kick your a.. e. Says the young Squire, - — sapscull, quotha’, old
G 3 fusty
/
8#
fusty kettle; I don’t know what kind of yellow materials you are made of; but as for being like me, you may be quite easy, for d ... 1 take me, if I was such a stinking tawny as you, if I should not in conscience pack myself out of the world, that I might be no disease to wholesome mortals.
At this Speech, miss Patty was Seized vrith So violent a rage, that she fell into hysteric fits; and Mr. Ravensworth, after having reprimanded his grandson,
(who sincerely wished she might die, and
%
devoutly prayed they would bury her alive) retired, and left her to the care of Har.. the servants, and myself. She has now again, unfortunately for us, recovered the use of her tongue, and vows revenge on the ungracious Squire. This, my dear, is the present state of our affairs. — Adieu, my Charlotte; and believe me
Most sincerely yours,
H. Seagrove,
A
V
9
 7
f
LETTER XXXVIII
«
Miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Ravensworth.
HOW much am I concerned, my ever
honour’d madam, at the affliction you have been in on account of your poor Emily; and how great are my obligations to you for it? — Teach me, my dear madam, in what manner I can repay a parent, who loads me with so many un deserved marles of her esteem and tenderness. — Great is my desire to do it, but hard the talk to accomplish. — However, tho’ it can never be in my power to bestow an adequate return to all your goodness, yet permit me to do it as far as in me lies, by complying with youristrict injunctions, to acquaint you as Soon as I found the least alteration in my heart and Sentiments.
The time is come, my dear madam, when I stand in need of all your kind in
G 4 dulgence;
IS
dulgence; determined, as I am, never to bestow my hand without your full approbation, — I remain in the greatest anxiety, till I know my fate from you — But why should I? Since I know you will never resolve to make your Emily miserable.
You will no doubt, with astonishment, ask me. Where, during this interval of time, that I have been both imprifon’d and dying, I can have picked up a Swain to lose my heart to! — It certainly cannot be that monster lord Wilton. Ah I my good madam, don’t think of such a wretch. No — it is to a young gentleman whom fortunately, or perhaps unfortunately, if he does not meet with your approbation, I
¥
happened to see and converse with at the masquerade. I doubt not, but your prudence will tax me with levity and indiscretion, at being So easily drawn in by outward appearances at first sight. Ah! madam, teach me to be poffess’d of your extreme sense and delicacy, and I own
you
 9
you blame me with justice. Yes, I acknowledge I was indeed taken at first sight; but confider, that I am unfortunate enough, not to inherit from the best of parents that judgement and consideration, which were So conspicuoufly hers from the tenderest years. But think not, that from that interview alone, I have ventured to make you this address— — young gentleman has Since then been the Sole cause of my escape from my horrid detainer; — he Set me at liberty. — Without him, perhaps, you had never more beheld your beloved child, as you Sometimes are kind enough to call me. He ventured his life for my preservation — ^ he has since almost lost it, from anxiety at my dangerous fituatioii. What return I ought to make him you must determine; for me, I know the dictates of my own heart; but they alone must never guide my conduct.
My cousin Dicky too, no longer claims a more than friendly share in my affections.
His
#
90
His heart and tenderest Sentiments are be stom^’d on a deserving girl, — a friend of Miss seagrove’s — her name Danby — • whose kind assiduities have much assisted my recovery. — She too is fond of him. What pity to part two hearts, united by the Softest ties of love and friendssiip!
The young gentleman, to whom I am obliged for life and liberty, is called Blanche; a man of fortune, family, and education. If he has your leave, my cousin Ravensworth intends inviting him down to H.,., at our return, which I hope will be Soon; Sori die with impatience to See you, my grandfather, and the amiable Henrietta, a2; ain. cousin
^ O
Tom too, has no Small share of my gratitude and esteem, for the affection he has so kindly tescissed for me.
We proceed Setting off tomorrow for London; and from thence, it will not be long ere we proceed homevrards. — I hear it was Mrs. Sandham, who was Sent with
the
\
Mibb K A V Ih JN b W UK 1 Jtl. 91
the news of my illness. — She is the lady, madam, whom I mentioned to you in a Sormer letter with pity, for being plagued with a bad husband— — are a judge of her figure and address; as for the rest, I must affure you, she is both amiable and accomplished. — Being rather wild before she married, and having a mother young enough herfeif to be jealous of a handsome daughter; she, by making her life miserable at home, and by repeated threats and perfuastons. Sacrificed her to the monster, who now dares call such a woman, Wife! A wretch not three removes from an idiot; but the worst creature of that Species, as he is both a drunken, passionate, and ill natured Sool, that has art enough to per suade the world he makes a good hus band, while he uses Mrs. Sandham with the most shocking brutality.
I have even heard Mrs. Clatyon Say, that he has struck at her: I myself, by living in the family, have heard him call
her
w
92
her by the most shocking names. — He cannot disguife himself at home; but, I fear, he Succeeds too well in that respect abroad. He has So prejudiced all her friends and relations against her, that not one of them but Mrs. Clayton, have the Smallest pity for her. She took me with her one day to Mrs. Anderson, her mother’s; but never did I see Such treatment of a daughter.
She is a little woman; has once been tolerably handsome, and has the vanity to think herself so^still. — She is rather lame, fat — and has always had an indifferent figure. She received, both Mrs. Sandham and me with as much formality, as if she had never Seen the Sormer, any
more than myself, in her lise. aster we
\
had been with her Some time, she began to grow more free in conversation with me, but was quite upon the reserve with her daughter; except when she observed, by chance, anything in her dress or behaviour,
I
 3
haviour, which She thought gave the least room for ridicule; a talent she affects to poffess in a most eminent degree; and tho’ she does not fail to be Sometimes really entertaining with it, yet the motives, which plainly proceed from envy and ill nature, make that which in another mouth, (who would use it with less bitterness of Speech, and vehemence of action) vrould appear real wit, in her Seem Scurrilous, tho’ clever.
She likewise pretends to be perfectly well read in ancient and modern history, and disputes, with the most learned gentlemen, on the Greek and Latin poets; tho’ she does not understand a word of them. — She Says too, she has a talent for languages; — her own, indeed, stie Speaks fluently, and having lived Some years in France, has given her a perfect knowledge of that tongue : she apes their country manners in everything, and has an invincible hatred to whatever is English;
o ^
and with an indifferent incom:. Sets up
for
^
for a professed fine lady. Acquaintance she has but few; or she has lost them, by exerting her fine talents (as she calls them) too liberally, in depreciating their no ones; this too is a phrase of her own. — Voila la portraite de Madame Anderson, mother to
V
Mrs. Sandham. — And I am the more particular in my description of her, as you vvill, in all likelihood, be acquainted with
her daughter, whose want of sense she So
\
greatly laments. You will yourself be the judge of Mrs. Sandham; and I am de sirous, that you be thoroughly acquainted with that mother, who is ashamed of her. She has indeed one fault; which is that unpardonable one, of being too pretty, too Sensible, and too agreeable.
Mrs. Clayton says, she was once as lively as myself; but the continual agita
%
of her spirits at this time, makes her appear quite the reverse. As I wish liberty to all my Sex who want it. So do I sincerely wish her blockheadly husoand in
the
f
I

the churchyard. Where, upon his tombstone, I would bestow this inscription :
Here lies
The Body of One, whose Life Was Spent, in doing ill Offices
To all Mankind.
Whose Self, was his God;
And whom,
Had not a righteous and all merciful Bein
r
thought proper
To take him from this World,
would have
martyr’d an amiable Wife,
worthy
Of a better Fate,
i
He was brought up An Attorney;
But providentially, his Idleneff
got the better
U •.
Of his malevolent disposition
So Sar,
That by neglecting business,
He
A
9^
He had not
Quite so full a Scope for Wickedness,
as if
He had followed a Profession,
Which,
By being in the Hands of
his Fellows,
(If any He had in Villainy)
Has been perverted
To the ruin of many honest Families.
His Time
Was Spent abroad, in drinking And gaming with low Company,
And at home.
In Swearing at and beating his Wife.
This is the Character
Of Mr. WILLIAM SANDHAM,
whose Example,
It is to be hoped, will be followed by Few,
And whose Life Is regretted by None.
rrs\ •
1 ms.,
%
■90
  Q
;
This, ■ my dear madam, is the epitaph I would give the husband. Was the mother to come under my lash, she would not escape much better.
I Sear, you, who do not easily enter into strong prejudices, will be tired with my long animadversions on Mrs. sandham’s relations I beg your pardon, if that should be the case : but my zeal for every fellow female in distress, and my gratitude to her for the concern she showed on my account, have run away with my ideas, and my pen would follow them.
My cousin Dick interrupts me while I write, and begs his duty, and most respectful love to my grandfather and you.
I join him, my dear madam; and pray heaven to prolong the days of such worthy parents, if it deigns to look with an eye of mercy, on your dutifully affectionate granddaughter,
Emily Ravensworthi
<
vol. II H.

LETTER XXXIX
Mrs. Ravensworth — in Answer.
I Received yours, my dear Emmv, which has effectually cured the anxiety of mind, your unlucky accident has So long caused me. I am, my dear girl, now, as well recovered as yourself, and hope Soon to See you at home. — I return your candid conseffion, by assuring you, that as soon as I have inquired into the young gentleman’s character and family whom you mention, and find that they answer what I should expect, in a man destined for your husband, you shall have my full consent to Sollow your own inclinations; and as your obligations to him are So great, I wish as sincerely as you can do, that I may hear a favourable account of him.
Gratitude, my Emily, is the noblest movement of the soul; and the man who
V
has preserved my child, claims my best
acknow
N

acknowledgments; these he shall receive, when you bring him to H... — Your grandsather too, is willing to indulge yoa in your choice. — But who is this Mist Danby, whom vou mention Dicic Ravensworth to be in love with— — remember, Sormerly I was acquainted with a Mrs. Danby; a most worthy woman, whom I ceased to visit when I retired to this country, — IS he is determined to marry her, I wish she may be Some relation to the lady I mean : daughters, I believe, she has none; for she was childless when I knew her, and was likely to continue So; or if not, she could not have any grown to years of maturity. miss Seagrove you will probably See before you do me. Her father fetched her yesterday to town, intending her in marriage for an acquaintance of his, whom she was
f
to receive as her declared lover, the moment she got home.
The poor girl looked so thunderstruck at the news Mr. Seagrove told her, that
H 2 I was
loo THE HISTORY OP '
I was Seized with the greatest compassion, at the unhappy posture of her affairs; and
when Ihe left the room, to pack up her things, endeavoured all in my power to
dissuade him from forcing the young lady’s inclinations : Mr. Ravensworth too advised him to take milder measures. — But in vain; he, poor man, is very headstrong, and determined to act as he thinks proper.
I fear in the end, it will fall on his own head; as all perverse people, generally, are the greatest Sufferers by their folly. When miss Seagrove was ready, he took her off; and we are now, more than ever, in want of our dear Emily to bear
I •_
us company. Poor Henny was really a worthy girl, and of so mild a temper, that she ought not to be treated harshly. Endeavour to See her in London, and render
her all the comfort in your power.
Your grandsather has thought proper to recall your Aunt Peggy, whom he has burnished his presence these ten years, for
marrying
  loi
marrying Mr. Evelyn, a man without cither fortune or Samily, to recommend him to an alliance with ours. — I have often endeavoured to persuade him to a reconciliation, but never could succeed fill now: when taking an opportunity to show him the injustice of interceding with Mr. Seagrove for his daughter, when he had So long bore a resentment to one of his own for a crime, which he declared, he should not wonder if miss Seagrove was to commit: time, and my entreaties, have at length Softened his anger, and he has permitted me to write to her, which I intend to do by this post. Adieu, my ' love; believe me yours affectionately,
Elizabeth Ravensworth#
LETTER XL
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
RO T it,, Bob, what a fellow are you Advise me to give up a girl that I love, and who is kind to me, for the Sake
H 3
toz
of a confounded jilt, that brings nothing but plague and confusion along with her. Revenge! with all my heart — that I thirst after as much as thou could’st wish, and would Spare no pains to get her again into my clutches, from whence if she ever cfcapes Scot Sree, may I be posted for an ass, thro’ every coffeehouse in town. — But why, in the d... i’s name can’t I in the mean time comfort myself with a little bev/itching angel, whom I would keep, even if married to Emily Ravensworth; than to whom, were it not for her fortune, I would Sooner be linked to the infernal Hecate. — No— — Bob, I never give up a wench, till I am tired of her; for which reason have contrived, without thy Machiavelian head, to carry Kitty to my country Seat at B .., Oh! thou puppy, and do’st thou really think there’s no merit in conquering Such .a virtuous little rustic? — A Nun I or a dutchess! — a pretty conquest, truly. — -
Why,
  loj
Why, thou head of the Wrongheads, dost thou not know that the virtue of an hundred of them, would not weigh with the Simple uninformed modesty of one rural lass— — would undertake to triumph over a dozen Dutchestes, and a whole convent of nuns, before I had advanced the least step towards the ruin of a farmer’s daughter.
Wilt thou Set thy myrmidons at work? that’s right. Bob j for that i’ll thank thee; and if thou wilt meet me in lonii don, we will undertake Some project for the recovery of that little Sury; and we will carry her to thy country house: for she must not come near my Kitty — the poor thing Would break her heart, if she thought I entered into any other engage'
mentsi
I believe she really has the vanity to
>
think, I will make her my lady Wilton. She pipe from morning till night, about what her father and mother will Suffer from her loss. — ’tis a good-natured little Soul; and, egad, I love her better than I ever
H 4 yet
r #
104
/
yet did any of her Sex. — Oh! how should I enjoy the thoughts of marrying that b.,. h Emily, and bringing a mistress under her nose; but Kitty would not do for that. — I would have a girl of spirit, that would tease the lady a little, and assist me in my wished revenge: — one that " would match her ladyship for insolence, and fight with her when the quarrel rose high; Sori do believe, the jade would box anything that opposed her will.
don’t you think. Bob, this revenge would be glorious? — To humble that proud Spirit by repeated mortifications! — ■
Oh! I anticipate the joyful event. ■ — Adieu, my lad — success attend
^ » Your friend,
Wilton.
LETTER XLI
Sir Robert Boyle to Lord Wilton.
WH A T a strange wayward jade is
that Same dame Fortune! — You have been Seeking after a fortune, with the
incum ^
  tos
encumbrance of a wise tacked to it, for So long; have gone thro’ So much trouble,, got wounded, and pestered to death, without having yet accomplished your end: while I, unthinking of any Such chance, wishing all wives at the d,.. 1, and all men Soolish enough to enter into the noose — cuckolds — have a fine girl with 20, oool. drops into my arms without the Seeking.
heyday— — n the Sellow, Says Charles — what fabulous story has he picked up now to din my ears with, when I want his advice in more Serious matters? Not you, indeed Charles; charity begins at home. — -1 have now cards of my own to play, and must attend to them, before I can think upon your less material concerns.
Now, Charles, I think I can keep thee in suspense a little. — Now do’st thou begin to curse, bite thy lips, and flatter, in order to be made acquainted with the glorious circumstances of twenty thousand
pounds.
io
pounds. — she’s no*emily, Charles. — Mild as the Summer breezes! — her Soft accents thrill thro’ one’s Soul, and give a Sull idea of Elyiium. But how the d.., 1 got you this girl, Bob? Why I got her, Charles — I won’t tell you yet — Ihe is tall — straight — handsome — » her skin the most beautiful alabaster, — — with eyes as black as sloes, and hair of the finest jet. Around her lips play wantonly a thousand
dimpled Cupids — Oh! I shall grow poetical in her praise, and make thee curse thy dull stars, that did not throw the fortune in thy Way.
And did’st thou ever suppose that thou
A
could’st equal the glorious destiny designed form, Charles? — Pshaw, man, thou
never hadst my talents for intrigue — - my perfoii — my address!! —.. n it, thou wert always but a boy in comparison of my noble achievements. But still, say you, this is not coming to the point. — Curse the fellow i 1 think his head is turned —
be
MISS ravensworth. 107
I
he cannot talk rationally. — Oh, ho, — can't I, my wife lord Wilton? — but if I can’t, twenty thousand pounds can, and very rationally too, Sora needy bafonet, with Scarce a foot of land : — a circumstance, by the by, my little deary’s relar. tions are by ho means acquainted With, They think, I suppose, the estate is in Jlatu quo — As it was when old dad and them used to meet together : — but I know the value of it too well, not to put it to it’s proper use.
Still foreign to the purpose— — still keep’st me in the dark. Bob, — Well then, thou poor dog, I will at last take compassion upon thee, and let thee into the mystery. — Know then — that formerly, there fubststed a firm and lasting friendship between old Sir Richard Boyle and Mr. Seagrove, - — a man of fortune, part of whose estate adjoined to ours. — He it Seems was troubled with a little daughter, whose Soft Soul melted away at the flames
of
« *
W
los
of one Captain Crosby : — A gentleman, to whom her dad bore implacable enmity. This Set his wits to work to break off their connexion; and he sent the girl down to H..., to be with your Emily, (and thereby hangs a tale, Charles, which may be useful) while in the mean time he sought out a proper husband for her.
After having caff about for Some time, he recollected his worthy old friend had a Son — doubtless as worthy as himself — upon which, he inquired if he was in England; and being answered in ' the affirmative, paid me a visit, and offered, for the friendssiip he bore my father, to bestow the young lady upon his Son. — This is the Sum total. — miss was Sent for home. — I pay daily homage at the shrine of this little Venus, and in Spite of the aversion I must own she has for me, Ihe must become my lady Boyle.
As I told thee besore, Charles, she is all gentleness; So, when I am tired of her,
I can
 09
I can break her heart in a month at least : ' Indeed it Seems to be nigh done to my hands, for the old Sellow is devilish cross with her, and the mother is kept in near as great awe as the daughter. She has twenty thousand pounds down, and all the Sortune at her parents death (whom I shall deceive with a salse Settlement) falls to her share; how Soon that blessed event happens, you may be Sure I don’t care.,
Miss begs, I would not marry her against her inclination; and I Swear, it is impossible to live without her; and hope, after marriage, I shall induce her to think better of me. I am in no fear of an absolute refusal from her, as I am Sure she dare not disobey her father. — And now for a word of thy affairs.
Depend upon it, as your Emily and, my intended are acquainted, aird know nothing of my intimacy vvith you, it will be the easiest thina: in nature to aether ao ain
o 00
into your povrer. — Meet me in London,
where
C
no
where I am at present; and depend upon it, it slant be long, ere you are once more master of the jade, and in full possession of all your wishes; which, as I am in a fair way of being happy myself,
I don’t ear if I assist you in the enjoyment of; and with a full pardon for all thy atrocious offences against me, in de * fpising my Machiavelian counsels, I Conclude myself, thy stncere friend,
Robert Boyle,
LETTER XLII
miss Martha Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Evelyn.
I Sincerely rejoice, my dear Peggy, that my obstinate old father has, at length, consented to forgive, and receive you again, into his house and protection. I wanted your assistance, to invent with me Some Scheme for the ruin of our detested Emily,
and the crew she favours; she has been
run
(
  III
run away with, and near dying, as I told you in a former letter, but is now recovered, and on her way home. Oh! why is she Suffered to return, to make us still Seel the effects of our father’s partiality. —
Would that old man were dead; devoutly have I been praying it these twenty years; but he is doomed to live, that I may be unhappy and dependant.
Were it not for the large Sums and presents I draw from their darling Emily,
I should not have money for the most tri * pocket expenses.
But she is such a Sool, as always to be furnishing her worst enemy with what she most wants. After all the bustle they make about her fine talents and understand ing, I remain of opinion, she is very little above the decree of a downright idiot;
o o *
nay, I have known Some the world has favoured with that appellation, with terr times her sense— — certainly must know I hate her, and that I would spare no pains
to
I
Iiz THE HISTORY OR
to do her every prejudice in my power; and yet she will give me anything I alk; almost quarrel with the old fool my father, in order to procure me what I have occasion for; and when I am ill, she testifies as much unfeigned concern for me, as if I was her best friend.
.What is all this but the height of
4
weakness?? — no, I cannot be persuaded, I am Sure she must want sense extremely. — She is always open to deceit; and ’tis by hypocrisy that I must accomplish my revenge. — I wish I could again betray her into lord wilton’s power. — How should I rejoice if he would address himself to me. — I could not then, I think, fail of my desired end. But he should by no means marry her: — I should die at the thoughts of feeing her my lady wilton; that would make her, if possible, more insolent than ever.
suppose I persuaded him, she bad no independent fortune, and that it was only
a false
  nj
a false report raised, to get her a noble husband. My life oust, he would then be in no hurry to Swallow the matrimonial pill; and how should I glory in Seeing her pride reduced, by the absolute loss of character, and consequently of friends or acquaintance.
Of what use then would be her independent fortune? — When her lord wag tired of her, she would become the outcast: of the world, despised by her own Sex, and treated with insolence by the other. — How rapturous the thought! — ■
I am half inclined to write to lord Wilton; but i’ll stay till you come to H... and consuit with you about it. I am Sorry, your child’s illness should detain you from us So long; perhaps it will be yet a month ere I can See you, and before that time th is paragon of our family will be returned.
Oh 1 that I could likev/ise g et rid of
o
this bocbv Tom. — He is a wretch too, that my Soul detests; but not So worthy VOL. II I of
ii the history of
of revenge as t’other. He, perhaps, may see inveigled to marry one of the maid fervants, ard then his ruin is complete. As for that little canting piece of Sobriety, Miss Seagrove, I have done her bufi ness, by writing a letter to her father, acquainting him, that she was constantly visited by Captain Crosby. — Upon which, he immediately Sought out a husband of his own chustng, and has carried miss away to London, to force her directly into a marriage with one she detests. — Little do our good family think what I have done; but I have other tricks to show them yet; tho’ I will always endeavour to manage them So artfully, as to remain wholly unsuspected; and by that means, I shall at last, perhaps, work myself into my father’s
favour, and gain a better fortune after his
\
death than I could otherwise expect.
Indeed there is no doubt, but when his grandchildren are removed, he will behave more generously to us. As for my
nephew
<
  ii
nephew Dick, he will, I think, ruin himself with the old man, for he is so very extravagant, thai he will Soon Spend all his own fortune, and then, i’m Sure, his grandfather will trusc none of his darlintr hoards
o
in his possession— — always pretend to be prodigiously Saving and frugal, which, I believe, turns the Scale greatly in my favour. Adieu, Peggy — make haste to visit us; and in the mean time write often. — I can now trust my letters to the post by a Servant, which I was formerly obliged to put in myself, as I have got full permission to correspond with you.
You Say your little girl has the Smallpox; but I think the Sooner you could leave her, and come away, the better, for fear the old gentleman should change his mind again : bestdes, my mother has never had that disorder, and if you could contrive to briny; a little of the infection alonso
O
with you — it might be a means of dis patchiniy one moiety of our old tyrant
I 2. however— —
. THE .DISTORY OF
m
however — and then, perhaps, t’other half would the Sooner decay. Once more, adieu, and believe me your. Sincere friend, and affectionate Sister,
Martha Ravensw'orth. LETTER XLIII
I
miss Emily ravensv/orth,
■to Mrs. Ravensworth.
WE have at length, my dear madam, reached London, and are So much nearer, our wishes of revisitino our ever honoured parents. I am perfectly well recovered of my illness; but I believe (tho’ nobody dare tell me So) that the traces of it are still very visible — for my glass, which is the honestest truth teller about me, (no great compliment to my friends, you’ll Say) too plainly makes me sensible cf the alteration. — Never mind, my dear madam, I am good enough still to make a Vrife on; and as I intend to
dwindle
/
 17
dwindle into that Sober animal Some time or other, the change is not material.
Will you forgive the style of your giddy Emily, my honoured grandmama? Indeed she had forgot to whom she was addressing Such Saucy Sentiments; but your goodness makes it unnecessary for me to strike them out again. To proceed then
/
with my tale — which is only neant to prepare you for Seeingyour Emily, both thinner and paler than usual, a circumstance, I know would, without a preface, be Sufficient to alarm your indulgent tenderness; I
$
doubt not, but a short time will restore me.
I have, stnce my return to Mrs. clayton’s, been visited by — a married man — ■ in every sense of the word. — Perhaps you have heard of his beinp so; but it was a
O ^
piece of news I was first acquainted with by himseis.
If you knew of the wedding, you will eastly guess who I mean; if not, I will give you a month to guess in — at the end
I 3
i
f
128
of which time, you will not I am Sure he a bit nearer the mark, than you are at present. — An old admirer of mine — he was so humble. So adoring. So Sighing, so constant. — Ah! who would have thoup; ht
o
the youth could have proved false to his repeated vows and Solemn oaths, never to out live my cruelty? — Really, madam, after all, these men are a strange, sickle kind of beings. — I think I had better determine to have nothing at all to do with them. — But then to be an old Maid! Shocking; I
O '
the very Sight of that dreadful word makes me shudder, — No, I Sear I must venture.
Forgive me, madam; don’t Scold your Emily, for keeping you thus in fuspence with her impertinence. — The pen is in fault, I think — I don’t know what’s the matter with it, but it will write nonsense whether I will or not; — shall I throw it away, and t dce another? — There — it’s done, — And now for the sickle Swain..
His name is — fiarding. — No other than my poor dying disma} — tired of liy
9
 19
I
ing a bachelor, I suppose, and Searing that Time might lay his rude claws upon his Smooth front, before I permitted myself to be wooed into compliance; resolved no longer To indulge the mortifying thought, and to chase away all Such fears, has wedded thirty thousand pounds. — A good comfortable kind of match. And
now for an account of the visit.
He came to Mrs. clayton’s; where inquiring for me, he was introduced into the parlour. — Your Servant, Mr. Harding. — ma’am, your moss: obedient humble Servant: — I am Sorry to hear — hem, hem — of the unlucky accident, which has deprived your friends so long of your agreeable conversation. ■ — I dare Say, Sir, your Sorrow has been extreme. — I Sear it has been injurious to your health — you look extremely ill. -- You have lost none of
0
your usual pleasantry, I find, miss Emily., -- -- 1 am glad you think it a pleasarit
Subject:, Mr. Harding; I should look,
I 4 upon
, 120-
upon it in quite another light. what,
ma’am? -- -- Why, your being in a bad
state of health. -- I did not tell you.
ma’am, that I looked upon that in a very pleasant light; I meant to Say, that you still retained your usual Spirits. — — Why stiould I not. Sir? i’m not married yet. — • Still in a style of raillery, miss Ravensworth? (little did I imagine, I was touching the gentleman So home.) Why raillery, Mr. Harding? I only Spoke matter of fact. -- When you are married,
miss Ravensworth, you will not, perhaps, think it quite So ludicrous a Subject... — bless me! — why you Speak as
if you were really touched by it! A married man, could not Seem more feelingly
• affected. -- Very well. ma’am, I see by
your affected ignorance, you are determined to make yourself merry at my expense. Affected ignorance! pray, Mr. Harding, explain; there is certainly Some mystery hid beneath these words. -- Ay, ay, explain.

  it
plain. Sir, explain — then became the general cry. — Why, good people, says he, - I need not explain that I am married, I fuppose, Since you are all So persectly well acquainted with it. — Married! married! — ^ th en reechoed all of us — upon my word, this is the first news we ever heard of it. — • Indeed, Sir, Says I, I take it extremely ill you should prove inconstant to me; and in the very time too, when I was Seriously thinkino; about entering; into that Sober
o o ^
state. — At this, Mr. Blanche turned first pale and then red — I hope the thing is not troubled with jealousy — And I continued reproaching Mr. Harding, in the most ludicrous terms, for his cruelty in disappointing me : — the Scene closed, by pur all wishing him joy.
He married miss Meadows, a lady about fifty; the most ugly, ill natured old maid, that was ever known; and from the
r
most fusty old virgin, she is turned into as
.'t'
very a wise, as he is a husband. She has
a whole
gtz ihili lilblury OF
a, '
a whole train of relations, with a Superannuated old mother at the head of them, 'whom she keeps to live in the house with her, and whenever he offends her, (which indeed it is Scarce possible for any one to avoid) they all open upon him together, and drive the poor man out of his own house for shelter, to any one that will harbour him against their fury, and listen to his woeful lamentations, while they keep full and peaceable possession;; when their clappers are tired, amuse themselves with playing at hals penny Quadrille, or Loue, at twopence a dozen counters. — • Dick, not knowing then that he was So dismally hen pecked, ashed his leave to wish the bride joy; adding, that as he was so great an admirer of mustc, they might have a little concert before we left town; " but poor Jerry shook his head. Said, his wife had the misfortune to have weak nerves, and could not bear the Sound of
«
ny instrument in the house— — a
i
mortification
MISS K AV liln S W UK 1 irl. i23
mortification must this be to a man, whqi is never easy, but when within hearing of a violin or harpstchord?
After having stood a little more raillery from both Dicky and me, he took his leave, desiring to be kindly remembered to my grand papa and you, -^^ — To have done with him— — —
the rest, Mrs. Sandham is more than commonly rejoiced at my miraculous recovery, — •! don’t know why it, is, but indeed I have taken an unaccountable prepossession in favour of that agreeable woman, — I have strenuously invited her with me to H.,., but her bear won’fe, let her comply with it; knowing his own want of attractions, he is too jealous to trust her out of his Sight, except when his low company and liquor get the better of
his passion for plaguing her,
• #
He and I have Sometimes high battles; and, I believe, he wishes me his wife Sora day that he might have the pleasure of
beating
124 ixtii ur
beating me. — In Such a case, I Should be
very tame, I dare Say — may be I might — ■
%
but it would be after having procured him
the best basting he ever had in his life. —
Poor Mrs. Sandham is So oppressed by
%
the ill usage of her relations, joined to his brutality, that she is almost frightenej out of her wite, whenever he appears.
She has, I think, gained a conquest; and one who, if her husband was dead, would, I dare say, use her better. — He too is a fickle admirer of mine — I mean, Mr. Oakham. — He often visits her, and his regards are always so totally fixed upon her, that he Seems to have no eyes for anything else besore him.
You See, my dear madam, what mortifications I endure: — I must be obliged to take Mr. Blanche, while he is in the mind; lest [ am forced to die a virgin of necessity, which would, you know, be a most lamentable event. — This pen is beginning to grow as unruly, I fear, as the
other;
  ti
other; so, my dear madam, while it is in any kind of order, I will conclude myself. Your most dutiful and affectionate
a
Emily Ravensworth,
P. S. I have called two or three times upon miss Seagrove, Since I came to town; but was always told She was out.
I intend coins a^ain tomorrow— —
o o o
long to know how that Sweet girl bear up under her affiictions.
LETTER XLIV
Thomas Ravensworth, esq;
To Richard Ravensworth, esq;
T Writes this, coustn Dick, to let you '. know, that I’se just tired out of mv
^ J J
life; and if you and Emmy doant Soon cum to beer me company, I mun be forced to pack off again for faither’s. Mrs. Hornby has fetched awzy miss fiariot, and i’ve nobody to talk to, but that
beldame,
: u
beldame; Aunt Martha, and th’ aud soaks— — desire yowd bring me with you from London, Sum sort of an imbroyder’d waifcoat, after your own fance, (for I thinks as how, you hav a woundy fine one) and six pare of silk stockings.
There has been a confounded dust about Turning away our William the butler. Old squaretose found him out, in stealing wine and brandy, when he vas Sent to fetch it out ot Sellar; So ever Sms, no body but myself have been trusted to go down. He was for turning him away directly, but old Patt pleded So hard for him, that he vas forgivn. i’ll uphould you, I was plagy Sorry for it, for hese a divlissi impudent seller, and tells everything that everybody does.
I was in a Soar mind for having him turn’d of, but she got better of me, by tellin t’aud man that b wad never get a Servant at wad dres his Isstias So well again; and So that mads t’aud Sellow keep him.
%
t
MISS.RAVENSWORTH. iif
howsomever, I could not help telling her a bit of my mind; and foi Said, that I fanced she had a yufe for him herfeif, or she wad never be So damned confident about her faither, whoa, to my Sartin Sure nolege, I new she hated. She called me Some sort of an outlandish quere name — a hotty pot, I believe; and ash’d me, what filthy idefe i’d got in ray perry canny now. But I kept her up to’t; Filthy yourself, you aud cat; ise lay owt at all naw, that you have the mosc nastiest: thowts of the too, with your Frensh gib brish. what’s here to do, know you. — ' I Say again, you hav moar occashon for him to kis your witherd chaps, than to dres your faither’s isfiias — you weasencl hagg. — cease your impartenance, ' you brute you. Says the tallov/ fased gipsy, or you will driv me mad. — Mad, al marry, Says I, ’tvv^ere a goodly dede; I wad it was .i’my pour, I Sad Soun do that for you, ’twad ■ be a dedly lucky way to get rid o you.
Go,
»
4
• ^zt THE.DISTORY OP
Go, ' you which of Hender, says I, and giv Suk to the young imps that hant you, and doant com trublin me with your. ftust She colld me a fu moar names; but by jingo, I maid her buo'g, for all the aud man’s meddling — lie’s alwas fnubbin me, I think, for taulking to that fusty aud b... h.
I rclly thinks ’twcr long on her, that Miss Hariot were feched away; she was alwcs plaging the poor thing. I have a woundy moind to tak mysel to that yung wumman. I nede not matter frends consent of beans straw, you now, for I Sail haw a gud estait one time or other; those for the matter o’that, their can be no great harm in afkin them; one can but be dea

nied; and I doant cair a button top for that.
I intends to pay her visit Soon, for cur r nel Hornby desirde he mite h, av the ple shure of Seeing me; but, I beleev, it wad bee better to hav Some fine claife first.
I know
A
Miss ravensworth. 129
I know these south country lasses is woundy fond of dress; and I thinks as how, it is a great Set of to a yung man of a gud
presens. I hav ordered a handsum bag
%
and I am to were it with a folitory like yours. Black will Suite my complexion; and I begin not to fancy these little bobs, ise always yused to were, they look So like a traidesman, the lasses tell me.
Ecod, I forgot to acquante you, that Our aud plaig catched me kissing Mary t’other day; and wad you think it, she was never a bit angry, but Said, Mar was a pritty girl, and wou’d make a very gud wife to fumbcdy; but that I owt not to gane the lasses hart, for fere of maikin her refuse a gud mach, when it was offer’d. ise Sure, I staird like a stuc pig, for thovrt of nowt less than a long string of naims and abuse — but Mary femes to be a great favorit of hers — she is alwas crackin what a tite handy lass she is, and to be Sure she mun be So, if Such a canker’d piese of guds as her can think So. — Fathe, poll’s
vol. II JC a pritty
%
rso  '
a pritty little silly to play with— — have had a botch at kissing with her Several times, but shes So plagy coy there’s no getting any Sens into her; tho’ Ihe tould Gracy tother day, that I was the pro
%
young man She ever Seed; and Ant Patt tould it me agane. I wish to the lord Harry, Dick, you wad make one
among us agane. — I longs too to See little
« /
Emmy, after all her trubbles and ilness; and I sud be vastly glad to know, how that pritty yung laidy dus that was luv fic — miss Segrov, I mean. Do rite, Dick, and tell me Sum nuse, to keep me in hart till I see you. And beleve me
Your loving cuffin, Thomas Ravensworth.
LETTER XLV
miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Ravensworth.
0
OH! my dear madam, I am in the
utmost concern. — You know, in
mv
)  31
my last, I told you, I believed Mrs. Sand
haivi had made a conquest; little did I think, Mr. Oakham had done the same
Yet how can one wonder? — From Such a husband, who would not be delivered? — '
But then the manner I — oh! I anh half distracted. — If she had poisoned him, I could have forgiven her; but to give the wretch such cause of triumph — Bless
'1
me — how could she be So weak? — - To
keep you no longer in suspense, madam —
*
Soon after you received my last letter, Mr. Sandham and his wife had a quarrel, in which she was certainly right. After having abused her with many shocking appellations, he rose up, and before any of uj could prevent him, struck her such a blow ’ on the breast, that she fainted away, and fell to the ground : — I went first to her assistance, as he was going to strike at her again, and in the fcuffie have got a black arm.
I
t
Mr. Blanche and my cousin Ravensworth then Seized upon the monster, '
« K 2 and
13
and held him, while we endeavoured to raise his wife.
In the midst of our confusion, in came Mr. Oakham. — Never did I See love, rage, and compassion, all at once actuate the countenance So strongly. — He went up to Mrs. Sandham, took her hand, turn’d pale, trembled, then alked the cause of her disorder; which I, in too great
$
rage to be restrained, immediately informed him of, with the most bitter invectives against the wretched cause. His face then kindled into the highest crimson; flying up to Sandham, he took him by the collar, and after kicking him about the room
/
for a considerable time, without either of the gentlemen offering to oppose it, or even the (then meek) coward himself, inststed upon his quitting the room, and undergoing the same discipline in the street. To this the wretch made Some resistance, and at last burst into tears; Saying, he never used his dear wife ill in his life before;

 33
%
sore; that he would ash her pardon on his knees; and that he should not have gone
^ O.
So far, but that he was provoked to think ssie should be led away by the ill advice of miss Ravensworth,
At this my cousin Dick went up, and pulled him by the nose; and Mr. Blanche drawing his Sword, Said, miss Ravensworth should never be ill Spoke of in his presence, With impunity; and inststed upon his fighting. — This young Oakham opposed, as doing him too much honour; as did likewise master Dicky : and Mrs, Clayton put an end to the dispute, by desiring them, one and all, to kick him out of the room.
He Said, he would not quit the house, without his dear wife with him. She being just recovered enough to hear these last words, conjured us in the most moving terms to protect her; and he, all at once changing his note, d.. n. d her for an infernal b ... h, who had been the ruin of
K 3 him;
134 '
him, and Swore, he would Send her so hell. — At this, the gentlemen no longer hesitated, and he was effectually kicked out of the house.
Upon examining Mrs. sandham’s breast, we found it so dangerously hurt, that it was absolutely necessary to Send for a Surgeon; who, upon examining it. Said it might be of bad consequence. Indeed, I never Saw a more Shocking blow : the anguish of it was attended with a slight Sever, which confined her two days to her bed. When she ventured downstairs again,
the first thing she heard was her vile hus
%
asking for her at the door, which near threw her into the same Situation again.
In vain we assured her, the Servants durst not let him in; it was a considerable time
4
besore we could quiet her Sears; nor should we, I believe, have Succeeded, had not young Oakham entered to our assistance. At the light of him, her countenance brightened up, and she became in better spirits.
MISS K AV r^ln b W UK 1 U. 135
Mrs. Clayton was engaged out that afternoon — I was to have gone with her, but had put it off to attend the lick lady, Cousin Dicky went with Mrs. clay tonne, and Mr. Blanche was not that day •of our party.
Mr., Oakham then was left with us two females; and I, having often occasion to leave the room, gave this young man, I fear, but too great opportunity to plead his Suit; for the next day she disappeared, and neither him nor her have since been heard ost
Th is, my dear madam, is my present Subject of affiiction; this is the too fatal offect of having bad relations. — The poor thing, I fuppose, dreaded to return hqme, and be at the absolute mercy of her wicked husband: she could not always remairi with Mrs. Clayton; and her nearest relations, who ought undoubtedly to have concerned themselves in her welsare, were aifisting, with the fool she unfortunately
K 4 marriedj
135
married, in oppressing her with injuriesi Few families, it is to be hoped, are of their way of thinking; if they are, the Lord have mercy upon poor young creatures, who are at the mercy of Such inhuman
Ipirits.
Mrs. Clayton, who tenderly loves her cousin, is plunged in despair at this rash step; and has been to Wait upon Mrs. Anderson; who Says, She now gives her ■up for ever. — Good God! — when did she do otherwise — and this too an only daughter. — Thank heaven, that has So happily disposed of me, with Such excellent and worthy parents.
Vexed as I was, I could not refrain from laughing at Mrs. anderson’s so for mally renouncing her — her to whom she never did the Smallest Service in her life, —. Nay, even refused to let her live in the house with her, without a most extortioning and unheard of premium for her board, I heard my friend Maria say, that she
once
 37
once went with Mrs. Sandham to Mrs.
%
anderson’s, on an afternoon visit, with other company, when a party was proposed that evening for V auxhall. They were to go from this mother’s house • — daughter, being full dressed, had no cloak with her; and fearing the evening might turn cold, begged her mamma would lend her one to take with her. — This was refused. She never lent things, she Said, as she really could not wear them after other people. The consequence was, Mrs. Sandham caught a violent cold, which confined her to the house a considerable time. Voila une mere.
Thus circumstanced with regard to relations, all of which are of a piece with this inhuman one; and such a husband, if anybody may be excused So desperate an action, it is the unfortunate lady in ques tion. Had she possessed an independent Sortune, or a relation, who to that title would have joined the name of friend, she
would.
J3S
would, I dare believe, have acted diffe rendy. However, the deed is done, and I can but lament the loss of so agreeable a friend and companion.
The vounp' g entleman’s friends are all
o o
in the highest consternation, as he was a lad of high expectancies; and has, I fear, given 'great pain to a worthy family. I think there is little but affliction in this world; and those that don’t Sustain evils for themselves, have them to bear for other people : for I, who possess every blessing my heart could wish, am still perpetually wretched by the distresses of my friends and fellow-creatures.
My poor dear Henny, tho’ last, not least in my esteem — I have Seen her. — She persuaded her father’s wretched choice to wait upon me, and introduce me to her sight; as her parents had ordered the Servants to deny her to all visttors but Sir Robert Boyle — the name of her in
m
tended husband— — came according to
her
 3^
her dessre, and brought me from her a few lines, to testify it was Such.
As he was a stranger, I did not care to go alone with him; So persuaded adaria to accompany me. — Mr. Seagrove Seemed Surprised at our enterance. -- -- Sir
Robert introduced us as his acquain t tance. — The lovely Henny looked emaciated beyond measure; and for the first. time in her life, appeared pleased with the thing intended for her lord — and master. You nev£r Saw, ma’am, a more horrid figure. — He is a little, sat, bloated monster, about thirty — his face is carbuncled, So as to render it dans erous to come near
o
So fiery a phenomenon — his eyes are little,
S
grey, Sunk about half a foot into his head — his nose made of rather (if possible) more combusdble materials than his Sace — ■ his mouth is of the true Sparrow kind, and when he grins, betrays too visibly the bad Surniture within; for he
Seems not to have a Sound tooth in his,
*
steady
i4<3
This is the picture of Sir Robert Boyle, Bart, intended as a husband to the Sweetest creature eyes ever beheld. — I arose, and went to the window. — miss Seagrove followed me. — I in a whisper asked her. What she would have me do
for her, and in what manner she proposed to act? — She desired, I would inform Captain Crosby of her distress. — I promised that I would; — and think, you, my ever honoured madam, will not disapprove the performance of it. I further alked her. If she would determine to run away? A thing, I really "would advise her to. But the coming up of the frightful Sir Robert, prevented her giving me an answer. Were it not for her, I should ere now have been in the country, but would fain stay, and endeavour to be serviceable to a girl, who stands in so much need of my assistance.
When I return, I propose bringing with me a Miss Danvers, whose story I will
acquaint
 4$
acquaint you with more at large, — Shs has had the misfortune to disoblige her friends, and all Mrs. clayton’s intercessions, who has taken unwearied pains to that end, cannot effect a reconciliation. Here is a fresh instance of the cruelty of relations; how happy am I in mine I — ■ Adieu, my dear and ever honoured madam;; may heav’n preserve me your esteem, and it cannot fail of bestowing happiness on your most dutiful and respectfully affectionate
Emily Ravensworth,
LETTER XLVI
Sir Robert Boyle to Lord Wilton.
NOW, thed... 1 takethee, Charles,
Thou booby — were it anybody elfe but thee, I myself should be tempted to carry off so rich a prize, and leave the little puny Henrietta to the winds and tides. Thou can’sc not Surely be at a loss to guess my meaning. — Rot t, hy Kitty,
what
\
THE HISTORY OP
what a fiiss thou mak’ft about that stlly piece of rusticity; while the handsome, lively, angelic (yes, angelic let me call her) Emily, waits but for thy arrival, to be delivered into thy possession— — a happy fellow wilt thou be, Charles? Egad, she’s a piece for an emperor. — >< What the d... I coiild’st thou be doing? to have her So long in thy power and not ’ — hey, Charles?
Oh! thou insensible ass' — she might well escape from thee— — I think, thou told’st me that before she escaped, she
made it her constant practice to turn thee into ridicule. — Why, how the d... I
Could she help it? — ^ Could not thy stupid
«
block find out., that she must think thee
J
a devilish driveller to continue So'long in
\
the same house, with So much corn, wine, •and oil in thy custody, and never once attempt to taste it, by way of comforting thyself for all the pains and trouble it cost thee In the p; athering. ■
But
Miss RAVENSWORTH. 14$
But thou had’st: got a foolish, puling, sarmer’s daughter in thy head, Sorfooth, and preserred the rural innocence of a country girl, to the ripe blooming beauties cf the finest woman eyes ever beheld — Ah, Charles — ^
all feeing Phoebus
ne’er Saw her match, since first
His course began.
Oh! what a Sailing off is here! I could
/
curse thee for thy stupidity. I have Seen her indeed x and to See is to admire.
My little dove (beyond my warmest hopes) desired that I would fetch and introduce her at old snap shorto’s, who has forbid the reception of any company but myself, and whom I choose to bring, till after his daughter’s marriage; — and for that purpose wrote a note, which I carried. — Kow was I Scruck at first sight, with the penetrating eye, and charming
ioute enfcmble, of the little Hebe. <
%
I delivered her my deary’s note; but the little jade would not trust herself alone
wdth
a
.h
with me; So we had the company of a married lady, one Mrs. Clayton, with us. After the usual time of visiting, she took her leave, and by her own desire, I am to call often, and take her to her friend.
You see by this, that time must give us an opportunity, and that ere long, of restoring her to thy wishes and revenge: if thou can’st be Such an insensible, as to destre any from such a bewitching little angel.
I Sancy in about a week more, these dilatory lawyers will have finished the Settlements, which bestow on thy friend
the title of husband to Henrietta Seagrove. — Egad, I wish it was over, for I am weary of playing the lover, and long to be handling the cash. — Ah! the dear chink of twenty thousand pounds., — « Adieu, Charles; our affairs go on Swimmingly. — Make haste, and put yourself into a fair vray of crowning your wishes, by immediately rendering yourself on the field
of
 45
of action, where thou wilt find ever ready, to assist thee, thy Sincere friend,
Robert Boyle,
LETTER. XLVII
Miss Emily Ravensworth,
\
To Mrs. Ravensworth.
I Have seen my dear Hennv Several times, since I wrote last to my ever honoured grand mama. — According to her desire, I sent for Captain grosby, and told hint to write to the distressed fair one, and I would convey it safe into her hands. — A pretty sort of a go-between character I have taken up, I think. — He did accordingly send a few words of comfort to her; which I delivered without being perceived, the next time Sir Robert thought proper to pay me a visit, and take me to my friend.
He is practising against he turns hus band, you see; So convenient a lover, cani

not fail to make an in dul gent helpmate.
vol. II L I had
i46  .
I had a curious dispute with Mr. sea orove that Same day. — He alked me. When I intended to make a match onst with cousin Dicky? I answered. When the whim took me in the head to be tired of liberty, I might in the Splenetic fit,, perhaps, throw myself into that desperate state of matrimony— — while I kept a sound understanding, with a Small share of regard for my own proper Self, I should most religiously avoid breaking that commandment, which Says, “Thou shaltnot lye.”
He Said, That was odd kind of talking for a young lady whose duty, he thought, it was to obey her parents; and that the fifth commandment was of as much consequence as any of the rest.
Sir, replied I, I fuppose, is one’s parents command one to commit murder, it is no breach of the commandment to be disobedient in Such a case; and why they should. Iiave a right to make one lye, more than
kilst
 47
kill, is a point of argument which requires Some Sophistry to Support. — How lye, miss Emily?
Why; throughout the whole; Mr. Seagrove ■ — we’ll suppose, for instancej that your daughter was going to be married to Sir Robert Boyle — the Supposttion, I own, is absurd — but, however, let it remain for argument’s Sake— — Such a case, when the priest denounces the heaviest judgement upon you, if you know any Cause or just impediment against the marriage, and do not declare it; would you
«
have her to answer, besore God, she knew of none? — No; her reply must certainly be this :
V '
“I appeal to Sir robert’s countenance, and your own understanding. Sir, whether I know of an impediment or not; that may, I think, bear conviction with it, without my declaring that I know Several more, ” — Now, how your daughter could avoid all this eoni'effion, at the very first
L 2 starting.
148
starting, without being guilty of perjury,, I canst conceive; and then to promise, to Jove, honour, and obey, an unconsequen tial being, who could not exact reverence from a shoe black. I need go no further, to prove to you the shocking impropriety and wickedness of marrying, to please our parents only.
Upon my word, miss Emily, Says Sir Robert, rather disconcerted, you are very severe;; — am Sure, is I was happy enough to obtain miss Seagrove Sora wise, I should endeavour to make her as good a husband as possible. Oh! as for that matter, Sir Robert, returned I, I am only saying what answer, a lady of miss henny’s Sentiment and Seelings, must make at the altar. As to myself, I don’t know but you might do well enough, for the use the generality of the women would put you to; and indeed my dear Henny, was she to. marry you, would be obliged to be at the
trouble of furnishing vou with antlers, in
order
A
 49
order to bring you to any sort of decent appearance.
‘pray, miss Emily, Says Mr. Seagrove, don’t you look upon adultery as a breach of the commandments? — Oh! Sir, returned I, that is So unfashionable a commandment, that ever since parents have taken to themselves the unnatural right of Sacrificing their owm flesh and blood, wives have taken the privilege of crowning their spouses brows, in order, as I told you before, to make their appearance a little more tolerable.
After a little more disputing, in which, I think, I had rather the advantage, we dropped the Subject; and I found an opportunity of delivering Harry crosby’s letter to the poor destined victim, who was to be delivered up at the shrine of the altar, to be destroyed by the never ceasing flames of that fiery faced votary of 13ac-
chus, — Sir Robert Boyle.
Severe as I was, upon the personal charms of this Adonis, he did not fail
L 3 soon
150
soon sto fetch me again to his beloved; who slipped into my hand an answer to grosby’s epistle, which I Soon after delivered to him. He Showed me a part of
s
it, wherein, after the most heartrending struggles, between duty, love — : and horror at the wretch she was destined for;
\
she agrees — if he can find means — to escape from misery to his arms; the only refuge left her, from the tyranny and ill usage of her barbarous father. He has been Some time laying a Scheme to get her into his possession, and has at last hit upon one, which he tells her, in a letter I am to deliver this afternoon : — It is, to make an alarm of fire, when all the family are just about got to bed; this, without doubt, will call them up to find out the cause; and while they are all in confusion, an I the doors open, he is to steal off Henrietta, and convey her into Scotland immediately.
• As I think this design cannot Sail, I shall not stay to See the event of it, but return

 51
turn in a few days to H,..; where, when she is Mrs. Crosby, I suppose, we shall all have the pleasure of feeing her. It will be Some days, I fancy, ere he has obtained leave of absence, and got all things prepared to convey her Safely away.
I Sincerely wish them success and hap piness in their undertaking. I have not yet heard anything of Mrs. Sandham and her lover : her husband makes a Sad rout about their being gone, and taxes us all with being assistant to it. I wish it would please Death to pay him a visit, and leave Mrs. Sandham at liberty to restore her character, by marrying the youth she is gone off with.
I cannot help still wishing well to that amiable woman : and tho’ thole who call themselves the virtuous part of the world, may condemn her, yet I never vas one of those dragons of chastity, that would give to endless misery all those, who had by .chance, and a concurrence of unlucky
L 4 circum
/

t
152
circumstances, ventured to stray a little out of the road.
The read of Virtue, is by Some called a thorny path. — I never found it so. — It is, I believe, because our Sex in general do, that they hate every one who does not undergo equal mortifications with themselves. Aunt Patty, for instance, is one of those tyrannical virgins, who finding it so hard to remain So, and not having courage, by living otherwise, to stand the tongue of flander, gives to tfie infernals every young creature, whom in her heart
t
Ihe envies for having dared beyond herseis,
Upon my word, I am always uncharitable enough to think, my own Sex in general, who are So very Severe upon the conduct: of others, are, in their hearts, the most abandoned libertines. — don’t condemn me for these Sentiments, my dear madam, — - tho’ I never heard you Say it; yet, I think you, from your experience and knowledge of the human heart, must have
made
 53
made the same observation. I am, my ever
honoured madam.
Your moss: dutiful and affectionate
Emily Ravensworth.
letter XLVIII
Mrs. Sandham,
To Miss Emily Ravensworth,
YO U are the only person, my dear
miss Ravensworth, to whom I would venture to address myself, after the step I have So lately taken. And tho’, I am certain, you cannot fail to condemn a conduct. So very opposite to your own idea of what a woman’s ought to be; yet, at the Same time, I know your extreme good sense, and just way of thinking, make you See everything in it’s true light; and that if you ever judge partially, the Scale is balanced by your great good nature.
Presuming upon this knov/icdge of your .amiable character, I write, to beg you will
still
15
still allow me a Small share in your esteem, and endeavour to make my dear Maria have a better opinion of me, than I am Sure she has at present: as I know her Sentiments upon Such a proceeding as mine, are much too rigorous to allow the Smallest
V
excuse for me, till, by Some means, the vail of prejudice is thrown off, and she regards the thing as it really is.
Confider, my dear miss Ravensworth, the cruelty of my Situation; married, or rather Sacrificed, at Sixteen, to a wretch my Soul abhorred: but that misfortune not being Sufficient, I was forced to bear from him for three years a continued round of injuries, without a friend or relation in the world to whom I could make known
A •...
load of Sorrow with which I was oppressed;; their ansv/er always was, .1 should oblige him, and not deserve ill treatment; and they dared believe, I should not find it.
After haviiip for So a lonp time, with
O O r
Seeming patience and inv/ard agony, bore
all
 51
all those ills, I receive a blow, that near deprives me of life. — Sick, and in the midst of my resentment at the cause of it, I am Solicited by a man, (in every respect the reverse of that wretch, to ■whom, I never more will give the title of husband) the only man, for whom my heart was ever sensible of tenderness; one, whom all the world allows agreeable, and in whom, I think, centres every perfection. — O! my dear miss Emily, your heart is not insensible; tell me, hov/ in Such circumstances as mine, I could refuse yieldinji to the in stances of a lover, whose persuasive eloquence, I am Sure, would have melted a much more flinty disposition than I was ever mistress of. — • At least, if all I can allege in my defence, will not make you think more favourably of my flight, let me appeal to your extreme good nature, which always excites you to pity, rather than condemn, your sex’s Sailings.
My Maria, even the amiable Maria would never hear my complaints against
Mr.
A
156
f
Mr. Sandham; but, I dare say, her motive was a good one — as she thought they availed nothing. Since the indissoluble knot was tied, that confirmed me a wretch for life. — A wretch indeed! — for tho’ I can find a thousand excuses within myself for what I have done, and tho’ I am much happier now, than I have been for three years past, yet do not think, my dear miss ravensv/orth, that I am So lost to reflection, as to be perfectly easy under Such ineligible circumstances. No, believe me, I am shocked at the footino; on which I
P *
live with Mr. Oakham; and was the monster, who calls me wise, once dead, I would either be his wife the next day, or
t
he should never See me more.
I would detest she man, who did not love me upon honourable terms. Mr. Oakham gives me the preatest reason to
o o
believe he does; and I am fully convinced,
that as Soon as he can retrieve my cha
%
racter, by making me lawfully his, he will,
with
 57
with pleasure, Seize the opportunity. If I should be deceived, I hope and truss: it will have this good effect, that it will end my misfortunes with my life, which will cease to be valuable to me, when it is no longer foto him, for whom alone I would preserve it. But I am asraid, my dear madam, I shall tyre your patience with this dull melancholy Scrawl, to which if you vouchsafe an ansv/er, you will indulge your favourite pleasure, by giving Satisfaction to the affiicted.
You see the confidence I put in you, by trusting you with the place of my residence, which, I am Sure, I need not desire you would keep secret. Adieu, my dear madam; accept my Sincere wishes for your health and happiness, and believe me: Your most obedient humble Servant,
Frances Sandham.
P. S. Direct to me, by the name of Mrs. Harvey, at Mr. wilson’s in D.,..
1
158 THE historv OF
LETTER XLIX
Miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Clayton.
w _ __ _
U have with this, my dear Maria, a letter which I just received from Mrs. Sandham. — If you would de flre to know my opinion of it, I need say no more, than that I shall answer it, and afford her all the comfort in my power.
This, if my Maria has the regard for me
she has always professed, will; I hope, influence her conduct in favour of her unhappy cousin— — will not write, till I can give her Some words of comfort from you.
Endeavour to place her agreeably, and with Secrecy, with Some friend in whom you can confide; and, I doubt not, but it will be possible to persuade her from her present unhappy connexion. Confider, you owe this to the honour of your family, and to the misfortunes of So near a relation :

tion : and if this does not influence you, you owe it to your friendssiip for me : — And I have vanity enough to believe, that this motive will be Sufficient to induce you to a compliance with my request. And now for a word or two about myfeis.
When I arrived at H..., the whole family gathered about me, rejoicing at my escape. — My "^grandsather and my dear grandmother shed tears of affection, at having me once more restored to them. I need not tell you, that my eyes overflowed with pleasure, at this proof of their tenderness; and the two amiable girls, Charlotte and Nancy Danvers, were affected in the Same manner.
tomjyiy grinned his satissaction, and beflobbered me for hals an hour. — Aunt Pat Said, with a look of contempt, She was glad my romantic adventure had ended So much in character; — at the Same time casting her eyes, with a Supercilious Smile, upon Mr. Blanche. — Ay, says Tom,
do
io
'—
do but see naw — I Southeast glad you’re come td take your own part, for I thought I should never have kept*my eyes i’my head to ha Seen you with, for no’ but saying, you was a rare mettled girl, and I loved you better than all ’t’family put together — for that you was better worth than any old maid Vth three kingdoms, those one of ’em was
t
a queen. — Ifackins, she rose up, and if I had not flew to t’other end ot’ room, and got a stick to defend myself, it’s my Sartin belief she would have Spoiled me.
We were all diverted with the young Squire, whose joy made him So talkative. Indeed we were all in high Spirits. — Our good people approve both.dicky’s choice and mine — think then, if we have not reason to continue So. — What did I Say? Continue lo. — What, continue in good spirits, because i’m in a fair way of procuring myself a tyrant for life r — O no — positively no, — I could not mean any ■ Such thing — it was a slip of the pen, which,
as
MI S S R AVE NS W O R T H. 16i
as idleness won’t Suffer me to write my fepiftle over again, we will let it pass. — a but don’t imagine, Maria, that I fancy myself at all happy in such a Suppolition, for I really don’t believe I shall have the wretch at lafl: : — he looks so Sure of me too. — -> Ah Neddy, Neddy, — I shall certainly disappoint you after all — I would not have you make yourself too Secure. — By Jove, ’twas bravely done First to attempt the chariot of the Sun, Then fall like psiaeton.
I have a great mind, maria — But then gratitude. Says my friend — He certainly Saved me from a wcrse Ayrant; that 'I must confess— — - Lard, what Signifies that — ^
I would chuse still to be obligm to him.r -- You know the obligation would cease, isst vasto repay him Io amply, as to bestow my pretty person upon him. — Or suppose we take it this way — don’t^you think by rescuing him from as errant a datc'partlet as ever mother Fortune in her mad Sreaks vol. II M V formed
/
THE HISTORY OR
formed, I should make a proper return, for his Snatching me from the clumsy paws of that filthy bear lord Wilton. Undoubtedly, you say, Emily; for Such a little fickle gipsey as you, would break his heart - in a twelvemonth’s time— — — don’t call names tho’, Maria — that is more than I bargained for. — Ah! if I could be Sure the thing would really be polite enough to take himself Snugly out of the world at the year’s end, — I can’t say but for that Space of time I might be d awn into the noose. — And yet the mortification ■•of Iofing So many pretty Sensible ingenious '. adorers, as I have the good Sortune to pick up every day! — It would really be a trying circumstance. — But then I should have that made up to me when I became a 'widow. — Very true, Maria. — Well, i’ll alk him, and if he really promises to 'comply with this, request of mine. i’ll. take him by : vray of pcnnance for my Sms.
, A gentle
0
  idj
A
A gentle tap at my door — A lover’s tap f No, cousm Dicky. — What does he want? these impertinent men are So troublesomch Ah, thank God, my good couz, Tvq
escaped thee — Peeping at my letter too— —
_
O unparallel’d assurance! — Well, pray read — now 1 hope you are Satisfied? — ‘
Wicked girl, he calls me — no matter, I
\
have need of all my wickedness to keep Such toads as you in order. — I must go down directly — A curious sight for me to See; no telling besore hand — O Curiosity!! art swist to enter in the minds of prying women. — I must go with the monster to Satisfy the propensity I have to be acquainted with everything that is going forward. Attendee mon retour, Maria; and as, I fuppose, I have by this time
!
conjured up that pretty little Spirit of inquisitiveness in you — I will endeavour to lay it as Soon as possible.
0
IN CONTINUATION.
Ha! ha! ha! ha! Maria, I Shall
*• k.,..
'burst with laughing. — Cousin Tommy — ■
M 2 ha ^
164
ha! ha! ha! Oh! I can’t proceed — ^ such a figure! I must lay down my pen again, and laugh before it will be possible to give you the description — Ha! ha! ha I.. You know I often told you the youth’s propensity to finery. He has purchased a bagwig— — got it on this morning, and has been viewing himself these two hours, Dicky peeping at him, and called me to See the grimaces he was practising besore he descended to breakfast. — But I little imagined, he would make his morning’s appearance in it.
Soon after We went do^wn; in he came,
dressed in a long nightgown— — —
a bag wig, full dressed and powdered — a
solitaire, and a Sword eh, which Dick
brought him from London. — Such an
original! — My grand fa timer’s face, and my
good grandmother’s, were lengthen’d about
half an ell. — Tom walked in with the
consequence and dignity of a prime minister
— stroked his chin — looked contempt on %
little
'r *.• - *.
ft
^ •
/
MI S S R AVE N S: W O R T H. 165
little folks below, and took his seat. — Silence and Surprise, reigned throughout, for Some minutes. — -1, ready to burst with laughing, yet not daring to give k ventj lest it should divert my eyes from the droll object: before them — at length, my grandfather Spoke, without the least inclination to the rislble, I’U affure you; his astonishment was too great for that.
In the name of God, child, says he, — * how came you dressed in such a manner? • How dressed. Sir? replied Tom, again stroking his chin, and viewing himself with a look of self approbation r
Why, in that preposterous manner, says my grandmother; why, child, you look like a Merry Andrevr.
ma’am, returned the youth, with an air of consequential dignity, you can’t he thout to understand the proper dress belonging to a gemman — ‘who have lived so long out of the beaus mund but I appeals to cousin Dick and Emmy, whither I is not dressed in the highest taste of the fashion?
M 3 Cousin
i66
cousm Dick and I replied, that his
appearance was indeed quite on caricature.
Why there now. Says Tom, — did not I tell you as how I was dressed in eharracter?
Our old gentleman, with a look of real
\
concern, declared the boy was mad; —; my grand mother Smiled; we young folks burst into immoderate laughter,, which Tom thought, was at the ignorance of the old people. • — miss Pat Said, with a look of contempt — Puppy — (unfortunate old virgin, fhe’s alvrays drawing herfeif into Some Scrape!)
Puppy yourself, retorted the angry Squire — you’re a puppy, and a jack ass to boot. In vain, aunt Pat urged him to hold his tongue; ’twas with such contempt her remonstrances were given, that the enraged Tommy laid his hand upon his Sword, Swore he would put up with these affronts ho longer, and demanded satissaction: and. had not Dicky held his hand, he would certainly have drawn upon her. The
dinner
'' V
I
A
0/
 67
dinner bell now obliges me to close my narration, with assurances how much I am, my dear maria’s ever affectionate
Eaiily Ravensworth.
L E T T E R L
*
Sir Robert Boyle to Lord Wilton,
Hell and the d... I, Charles!
I shall run diffracted — That cursed Emily I — s’death and fire — ^^i’m almost choked with rao e, at the bare mention of
O ^
her name. — But if i’m not revenged, the d... 1 fetch me.
Now, Charles — now’s thy time. — By heav’n, my rage is So great, that d.. n it, I can’t write. — I must lay down my. pen, and when I can compose myself enough, to give thee an account of the reason of all this raving, I will again resume it — at present, ’tis impossible.
Well — a bottle of the best Madeira in Britain, has at length put me into such
M 4 Spirits,
V '
I
4
4
»
m
t
Spirits, that, I think, I may venture to be -- 'gin once more — in order to inform thee, how i’ve been abused, cheated, tricked, and robbed. — Damnation — while I tell it, do I live?
Who the d... I would have thought, that little whining jade, Miss Sea., GROVE, could have played Such a trick? But that confounded Emily, she was certainly at the bottom of it — for which, if I
forgive her, may the vengeance I mean
%
Shall fall on her head, licht on mine. — — ^ O woman — ^ woman, damn’d, deceitful woman. — Who was it laid great Troy in ashes? — Woman. — Who for an apple damn’d mankind? — Woman.” — In short, whatever mischief is done in the world, inquire but into the cause, and you’ll find woman at the bottom on’t. — s’death, how I wander! — One glass more, Charles, and then to the point. — There — now for it.
When I went t’other day to old testy’s, my wife father-in-law that should have
t
been;
.4
t
\
 63^
been; — instead of finding the family in' Sober tranquillity, as formerly, all was in disorder and confusion— — rascal that let me in, started, assis he’d seen Some hideous Spectre — Said not a word, but pointed to the parlour rdoor. — By heaven,
I thought Some osthem were dead — So made a full stop — and thro’ the dread of finding
I
a dead corpse in the room, (than to which, you know, there is nothing I have a greater aversion) I was going to turn back : — : when, at that instant, opened the door, and out came old Choleric, in a long - gown and a white nightcap, his eyes upon the full stretch, and mouth vdde open. This was enough for me r — I was Sure it was a ghost — ■ and immediately gave three stdps and a jump back; — and had it not been for ad., n’d tea table, which was
. J J (
in the passage, and over vrhich I fell neck and heels, I stiould certainly have been out pf the house in the twinkling of an eye. The old man now came up — I gave myself

i. ' i
0.
n
170
self over for lost — and was endeavouring, in vain, to recollect a short prayer: till on a nearer view, and touching him, I was convinced it was no shadow, but the same corporeal Substance which I parted from the evening before. — How now. Sir Robert, Says he, what are you in the combination? will you run away from me too? Then Seizing me by the arm, which he griped So damned hard, as made me think him mad, he pulled me into the parlour; (I devoutly wishing him, or myself, at the d... 1, to be out of his clutches); where, in a corner, drowned in tears, sat his inconsolable helpmate— — he Squatted — mute as a fish. — I — staring first at one, then at the other — and really, if my astonishment and fear had not got the better of my risibility, it would have been a most entertaining Scene. — At last,
I mustered up Sufficient courage to stammer out, in a faltering voice, — pr a y,
wh at s the.m a tter, Mr. sea gr qv e?
Roused
< r
  iji
Roused by my voice, (tho’ not the most audible) the old man looked up, gave a deep groan, and replied : — Matter! — why. Sir, my daughter’s run away with by that villain Crosby. — He then went on, telling the whole Scheme by which he got her away, which, I am Sure, took him up two hours. — But as my patience will not allow me So much time at present, I stiall only Say, that by alarming them with a. cry of fire, when just got to bed, in the confusion, my demure helpmate, that was to have been, stole out, and was never missed till morning; when old Seagrove being apprized of it, got up in a d ... 1 of a hurry, and never thinking of altering his dress, was the reason of his making his appearance before me in the manner I have mentioned; to my no Small terror, and the damage of my shins of all the skin from the ankle to the knee, which I unfortunately wiped off, in my fall over the table.
That
I
17
That cursed Emily, what does fly not owe me? — I had forgot to tell thee, that She was devilissi severe upon me one day, at old seagrove’s, where I had carried her, in order, as I find by woeful experience, to weave a halfer to hang me with. What she Said Was so damned Smart, that by my Soul, I could not answer it as I ought; and theresore contented myself, with thinking on the revenge I would take, when I put her once more into thy power, which, I hope, will now be very soon: : my own ill fortune, in which she had so principal a Share, will now Spur me on with greater alacrity. — Oh, Charles, what a loss to me is twenty thousand pounds, "and the addition of all old square toes* wealth at his death. — The bare idea dis tracts me. — Adieu, Charles — I cart no more at present, but will finish this tomorrow; the power of the Madeira begins, to flag, and ’tis now too late to take a Second potation. — Once more, adieu, till
tomorrow
• ' » .>
Miss ravensworth. 173
IN continuation.
That ill toward miss Fortune, takes a delight, I think, in playing her mad freaks upon me.
I had sent Squires out for these two days past, to get intelligence of emily’s motions, and this morning arose, big with the hopes of sweet revenge. But on coming down — death to my hopes I — I received a line from him, informing mcy that she had been gone to H... Some days,
and that he was on his road thither, to
»
See what he could learn with regard to the
o
present Situation of the family.
A sly dog! — He durst as well be' d 4... d, as return without a part of his errand. — Just come back, they tell me, * Well, send him up. — So, "once more Fortune Smiles and cheers my drooping. Spirits, in the person of honest roserty whom your lordship bribed at the mafqus rade,;, they have turned him away, and he is now in my Service.
174 HISTORY OP
It Seems, my trusty Pandar met him on the road; and being Sormerly lightly acquainted, and knowing the livery he wore to be ravensworth’s, began to Sift him about the family — But he had no occasion to use any finesse in the matter — his bro
9
there Martin told him very willingly his sorrowsul case : that On emily’s going home, she explained the whole affair of the masquerade, and the poor Sellow was Sorced to pack off instantly. — Squires brought him to me, and in consideration that you was the cause of his Iofing his place, I have taken him.
He tells me, that Emily', since her return home, frenuentiv takes a walk into the
J
park in an evening alone, and amuses herself with reading in a summerhouse at the end of it: the park door, which is very near the fummer house, opens to a wide common, and he has luckily brought • away one of the keys belonging to it.
Now,
%
• 9
 75
Now, my lord, boot, and to horse — I think you cannot now fail of getting her again. I have got five trusty rascals, very
H ft
fit for the purpose, and Sent them with Robert, who brings you this. — He will instruct you in the proper time to make
your attack, and likewise show you die
__ ^
way; but I would not have you take him to the Scene of action, lest his being Seen in the neighbourhood by any of the Samily, ‘should make them suspicious, and by that means put them on their guard : therefore desire you will, as Soon as he has given you Sull instructions. Send him back to me, as I shall want him in an affair which I have in hand; and but for which, I would certainly have been with thee, to have shared in the triumph over that Syren, Emily.: — Adieu, Charles; success attend thee, prays thy friend and humble Servant,
Robert Boyle.
• • • •. * **
'
176 THE stistorv OH
I
LETTER LI
Miss Emily Ravenswortiij To Mrs, Sandham.
WITH this, my dear Mrs. Sand
ham will receive a letter from Mrs. Clayton, which I hope, and dare
* t
believe, will give her both comfort and
*
.Satisfaction: for tho’maria, by her own irreproachable conduct (God knows to inone of the best of husbands) is entitled to be more Severe than most women, in Such a case as yours — yet, I believe, that Very reason, which proceeds from her excellent disposttion, is the cause of her being .Snore indulgent to the failings of others, than if she herfeif was equally in want, of The Same, lenity.
t
If any cafe in the world would oblige Ine to be Serious, it is your present unhappy Situation; for though you Say, you are happier than you have been these three
vears;
M IS S R AVE N S W O R TH. f; 7
years; yet, as' you acknowledge your present circumstances to be perfectly ineligible, you will not be offended with'me for wishing; there was a chana; e in theshi —
o o
But I beg pardon — I will not trouble you with any Serious lecture; in the first place, because I am entirely disqualified for it; and in the next, as I dare Say Maria has given you a quantum fafficit, in the inclosed epistle. — To change our Subject then.
As I know news to be one of the reigning passions belonging to us busy moftalsj especially the males, who, dear Souls, go with Such an air of consequence to the coffeehouses III a morning, call for the papers, — drink two pennyworth of coffee, to clear their brains from the fumes of last night, and very Seldom is the end answered; then Settle the affairs of the nation; shake theii empty noddles, to express their no meaning, and stickle up for liberty and property; while, perhaps, their dearies vol. II N " at
iys
at home; rule like goddesses at large, with despotic Sway, and make them too Sensible that it’s a blessing they are by no means
qualified for, and consequently never hope;
/
to enjoy.
As Such is the casey and that we are equally Sond both of hearing and com munigating, I will muster up all I can Gollecty to acquaint you with, and then
stie conclusion to be drawn from the afore
• • •
remark is - — That we shall both be pled. May be so; if you please then we’lt try the experiment.
Vmr cemmmeer dmc par h eommencement^ Wt will treat of your ladyship’s efoape. in the morning, when you was missing at breakfast, there was a general hue and £ry Servants Sent up, to See if you was in bed, — No — A morning’s ramble Into the park, perhaps? Had you been seen to go out? — No — The street door sound Wide open. Some of your clothes goae** a faspickms circumstance that. —
No

No walking in the park, with two or three gowns, and a dozen shifts on at a time, as many aprons, ca pretty figure yoa would have been.
Mrs. Glayton, with a face as long as my arm, began to apprehend the truth, and was ready to cry. — Her husband, in his usual polite Way, (hiishands are apt to be polite, you know) called her, a fool, and Said, What was it to her if you was gone to the devil? — he knew no business she had to care. — A remark quite in character, for if every friend he. had in the world was there, it would give him no concern — > The reason of that yqiissl Say is, because in that case he’d be Sure of meeting them again: very strue, that may, indeed, be Some excuse for him.
I endeavoured to comfort your cousin, and told her you would possibly appear at dinner: — >biit she did not expect it, and consequently was not disappointed.
In the evening too, your little Chimney sweeper, (for I dare say that has been his
N 2 original
o
original profession) called with a fat grocer
his intimate acquaintance — one of his
pot companions, I suppose, and alked for
his wife, in So peremptory a manner,
(thinking the grocer could defend him if
%
any opposition was made) that unfortunately Mr. Clayton, who was at home, heard him, and came out; and not being in one of his best humours, Sa very common cafe with him) threatened your ingenious husband with a kicking, - if he did not get out of the house— — which,
4
like a great blubbering schoolboy, he berna crying, and falling on his knees, begged Mr. Clayton would let him just Speak to his vise Sora mixiute..
Maria happened to hear this dispute, and coming out, assured him that you was gone nobody knew where. He then ashed. If you had taken your clothes. with you I Which he was told was no busmess of his;
I
but he inststed, he Said, upon having them,
. if you had not taken them away; and that
if
• * *
V
0
  isi
if Mr. Glayton did not deliver them, he would bring a constable and fetch ’em.
T his, as you may well suppose, got him kicked out of the house;; he has Since,
I hear (having Spent all the ready money he bad) gone to write Sora lisping attorney in Chancery lane, with whom he Served his clerkship.
What could the beast want with your clothes? — Possibly he would have trucked them for gin, or Some Such comfortable potion, when his cash run short. — I hope his infernal majesty will Soon take him to himself, and leave you at liberty to clear yourself to the misjudging world, who have indeed treated you too Severely : a circumstance, that ought not to Surprise you, as they are polite enough not to make
I
much distinction of persons, but lash their neighbours indiscriminately, just as happens to be most convenient; those neighbours still not being So deficient in the rules of good breeding, as not to return the com
N 3 pliment. —
\
i8z
pliment. — Thus does the Spirit of polite ness go round.
You know Charlotte Danby. —
Next Monday fortnight is fixed for the happy day; happy, for my animal of a cousin Dicky, indeed — but I can’ t say much on the other fide of the question. r • They think. i’ll lead up one in the dance — a horrid mistake, that of theirs : — don’t intend any such thing these ten years, posttively.
miss Danvers, whorn you have likewise Seen at Mrs. clayton’s, I hope will Soon be reconciled to her friends; ray good grandmother has undertaken it, and we are all to make a party, and take her with us to her father, when we hope the sight of his daughter, and the intercession of So many, will induce him to forgive her,
miss Seagrove, whom you have heard n
*
. us So often Speak of, is at last gone off to Scotland, with Captain Crosby. I wonder what the terrible Sir Robert will
say,
 83
say, to the loss of his intended spouse. Do you think the wretch will cry? If he would shed tears now, as Othello says. Fast as th’arabian tree drops its medicinal gums, ” it might possibly be a means of quenching the flaming phenomenon of» his fiery countenance; and then, with the paring off a pound of his unconscionable nose, a peiison might venture to approach
him with Some degree of Safety.
%
A pretty contrast between him and your husband; the one flaming like mount j®tna; and the other, exactly as if his
face was covered with affes fkin — not a bad Simile, constdering the analogy there is between the two animals. — Heavens! where was the woman within you, when, you consented to yoke yourself to such a numscull? — Not one little bit of the spirit of contradiction? — Oh fie, and such a mother to copy by too!
No wonder she does not like a daughter so very different from herself. — Adieu, my
N 4 dear
184 HISTORY OF.
.dear Mrs. Sandham; I hope, if you ever have it in your power to marry again, you’ll manage your husband better, and take example by
Your sincere friend,
Emily Ravensworth.
LETTER LIE
Mrs. Clayton to Mrs. Sandham.
*• • 4 •
I
IT would be needless, my dear Fanny,
to tell you half the vexation your late
imprudent step has occasioned me. — You
know the stncere love I always bore you,
and must be perfectly Senstble what my
feelings are on Such an occaston.
I do not mean to upbraid you, Fanny;
but yet give me leave to lay besore you
the terrible consequences of Such a conduct.
You have revenged yourself upon yourself;
and if the world was doubtsui besore, this
last action must convince them, all that
has been already reported is most indispu
^ *
tably true.
 85
Your character lost — the young gentle. man, companion of your flight, as well as yourself, entirely ruined— — tremble for you both — thow is it possible you can fubfist? Both destitute of fortune, and the means of procuring your bread, — What must be the end of your connexion?
As I fuppose you may want money, inclosed I Send you a bill for thirty pounds: ’tis all I have in my power, nor can I be ever of much assistance to you. — You are Sensible, my dear Fanny, that was I entire mistress of myself, my house should be a certain and welcome asylum to you; but I am married to a man, whom I think it my duty to oblige, and to ‘whom it would not be ag reeable,
o ^
Your mother, without a large conflder< ation, will not receive you to her house; and I know of no resource but one : Mrs. oollins, whom you have often Seen with me, is an agreeable widow lady, a Roman catholic, and is going to France, for the
education
I
r
i86
education of her children; She would be glad of a young lady to accompany her; and as she has no large fortune of her own, and, consequently, lives at no great expenee, I think, I can answer for surnish ing you y^ith an annual income. Sufficient to enable you to live within her prudent plan.
This, my dear, is the utmost extent of my abilities, and w’hat you ought, I think, to accept — I hope, indeed, you will not hesitate a moment. Mr. Oakham has it now in his power to be reconciled to his friends, a circumstance which may not be, when a few months has, perhaps, obliterated him from their memories.
If it please heaven to take Sanbham, and you both continue in the Same mind, you will have it then in your powers to be reunited.
In the mean time, you cannot continue Such a connexion, without the greatest imprudence; and if you reject my present
offer,
#
 87
offer, you put it out of my power (whatever are mv inclinations) to be f any future Service to yotj, as I cannot, without injuring my own reputation, encourage you, while you pursue Such a plan. Cour fider, my dear girl, on what I have Said, and believe rne still your most affectionate
Maria Clayton.
LETTER LHL
Henry Crosby, esq;
/
To Richard Ravensworth, esq;
N
AF T E R a very harraffing journey of
four hundred miles, I have, at length, the unspeakable Satisfaction of informing you, that yesterday morning I was made
happy, in receiving my henny’s hand,
> ^
from a worthy North Briton. The fear of being overtaken, and the fatigue of travelling night and day, have so reduced my charmer’s Spirits, that (he did not relish the beauties of the northern metropolis,
so,
9
%
•%
1: 8
so, after a day’s rest, we, this morning, fet out on our return for Berwick, a little town on the borders of the Tweed, but neither in England nor Scotland; from whence I write this.
As Henny is so fatigued, that we cannot pursue our journey with sasety, we intend to remain here a few days; but from what I can guess of the town, we shall not be very well entertained; the only amusement they have, being a troop cf strolling players, whom they think miracles, I find — at least, if the whole town
be of the same opinion with my Sat landlord; who, with a very consequential air, abruptly entered the room. Soon after we arrived, and excited our curiosity So much, with the praises he very fluently bestowed on them, with all the wit and eloquence of a true Boniface, that, tired as we were, we went to See the Beggars Opera : with this previous information from our Host, That they were the most wonder
■ *
$
 89
fullest people in Tragedy shows, and the most comical!est in Comedy ones; as aii instance of the former, he Said, they had almost made his wife mifearry the week before, by cutting off essex’s head, as na
A
turable as life; and to prove the latter, he had himself laughed till he had like to have burst his stdes, at the humoursome show of Hamlet.
scarron, in bis excellent novel, has not produced richer food for laughter, than the exhibition and exhibitors mutually afforded. The place, I may presume, had been a malt kiln; about twenty benches,
ristng above each other in gradual ascent,
%
with slit deal Seats, were built upon Such slender principles of construction, by a cari

penter, who dreaded payment of his bill, that every Spectator was in momentary danger of being Squatted on. the ground; the boards were all unplained, and the nails not driven half home, made excellent work for tailors and mantua makers.
The
# • «
\
*9®
The curtain resembled the bed hanff a
D
ings described by Pope, and dirty yell low Jlriped with paltry red; in that part where you See mottos in the regular theatres, was vilely daubed the words; Vivitnr Ingenes, abominably Spelled; and for tste benefit of unlearned customers, beneath was Scrawled this very Significant translation jve live by our Wits. In a corner F the pit, Sat the most offensive creature that ever Scraped cat gut, who, with great assiduity, tormented our ears inces fantly for half an hour, before peachum was presented us; a fellow too vulgar, and too ilis lo0k|ng for a real thief taker, who blundered every Second line, particularly by foyingj instead of six filvcr hilted/words, six filver hilted His Rib was worthy
tef f Engaging a mate, a little Squab wotnaft, who stared like a stuck pig, waddled like a duck, and Screamed worse than a frighted few in a storm; by a mistake, which might, have happened through want
of
Miss RAVENSWORTH. igt
of a glass, one cheek was ornamented with red like a milliner’s doll, and the other wore the hue of an unbleached candle;
She Spoke like the goddess of Nonsense, and Sung like the eldest daughter of discord.
Polly, who would have made an admirable Wapping landlady, wore Such a pair of high pin heeled shoes, that she moved as if a pair of stilts had Supplied the place of legs. This occasioned her to topple forward in such a manner, that we were Several times under apprehension of her bolting headlong upon us into the pit:, this would certainly have happened, is her lover, Macheath, had not eatched northeast of her material ships; however, his care produced an incident of much laughter,
for having unluckily laid hold of her high raised tete, headdress and all gave way, leaving her own uncombed golden locks, filleted with a dirty red garter, exposed to, view. This threw the dear creature into • some confusion;; being not very bash
3
I
e
9
ipa
Sul, she replaced her artificial nutbrown covering, and went on with this gentle remark, “curse that there Fellor of mine, he would make me put on Such confounded fashionable shoes, that a body can’t walk in them.”
This exquisite performer, whose voice and foot kept pace with her delightful appearance, from an exalted opinion of her Own musical execution. Seemed to have declared war against poor blind Scratch in the corner, who, though his music was Sufficient to banish composure from every other mind, often lulled himself asleep; each time he nodded, Polly, enraged at his want of taste for her Singing, put on
the face of a Sury, stamped like an exer
*
cismg Soldier, and cried out like thunder, accompartyment, you. Sir; ” here the doleful sounds renewed, while he played one tune, and she Sung or bawled another Lucy was enacted by an old lady of sixty, who Scolded like a billingsgate, and
in
 95
in her linging emulated the harmony of winding up a jack or filing a Saw; nature had twisted her Shape considerably on one lide, and time the universal tooth drawer having unfurnished the gums, her tongue was enclosed by nose and chin, like a kind of parenthesis. — filch’s features Spoke the pickpocket admirably, but by his dress, looked as if he had been taken from one of the gibbets on hounflow Heath.
macheath’s gang might be justly styled Dramatic Coffacs and Calmucs, for they butchered common-sense without the least remorse; one of this miserable crew to show his idea of character, exhibited his tall awkward figure Spread out like a petit maitre.
Among the ladies of easy virtue, there were two or three tolerable faces, and the whole group, particularly Polly, who represented islammekin, looked as if
vol. II O they
194   they played Similar parts on the great
stage of life.
The Captain gave a very whimsical idea, both in look' and deportment of onc of those miniatures of man a baboon j dressed in an old red jacket: the motion of his legs was rather Ikipping than walking, that of his hands the flapping of a Bantam cock’s wings; the change of his features grinning — his Speech chattring, and his Songs the gurgling of liquor out of a long necked bottle; however being manager, though worst of the bad, he by right of authority assumed the capital part — a maxim I find mostly maintained by gentry of that stamp.
/ aster the opera, by Way of continuing cur torment, they kindly gave us an operatical farce — the Devil to Pay I and certainly with respect: to action no piece was ever better titled; for the Devil to
f
t
pay it literally was; the curious performers who in a state of Sobriety Seemed
♦
amiss
RAVENSWORTH. 195
as if nature’s journeymen had made them and not well, they imitated humanity So abominably; were now So elevated with gin and strong beer, that such nonsenfb
9
ensued as beggars all description; and caused me to wish the man on board a man of War, and the woman employed in the more Suitable stations of crying oysters or selling gingerbread. — I must have tired your patience, therefore conclude this trifling. I am, c. See.
m
T.ND OF THE SECOND VOLUME •
•.
/

O L D M A I D;
O R,
HISTORY
)
OF
Miss ravensworth.
I N A
SERIES OF LETTERS.
■ ■ ■ ■ - ■ ■ I ■, —
By Mrs. S K I N N,.
Late miss Masterman, of York.
If any here chance to behold himself.
Let him not dare to challenge me of wrong j For if he Shame to have his follies known.
First he shou’d shame to act ’em.
Wl ■■ ■ ■ ■ "■ ■ ..■■■..
VOLUME THE THIRD.
___ W
LONDON,
Printed for J. Bell, at his Circulating library, near Exeter exchange, in the Strand; and C Etherington, atyorki
MDCCLXXI.
4
\
* !■■■■■ I II III, ■ lami ■ ■■ ■ — ■■ !■ ■>rirt..p I ...,,, i, iii».„w.i
y ^^, 11
THE
HISTORY
«
O F
A

#
X - '.. r.' .'
LIV
Miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Clayton,
OUCH an accident! Maria, sugii a ridiculous, droll, unaccountable accident! — Oh lord! Oh lord! who could possibly have thought it? — —
Vou III B Now
i
Now are you impatient to know the nature of it, and will, in all likelihood, wish me
I
married for keeping you in suspense.
A good comfortable sort of wish; and
may chance to be fulfilled. — But all in
'\ •
good time, Maria — don’t hurry me, child, for if you do, in all probability your curiosity may remain unsatisfied to the end of the chapter. This you may call. Sending you before to prepare the way for me j as I don’t know a worse punishment for a Semale, (at least, I can answer for myself) than to remain in ignorance of what we most desire to know. — Teasing Emily,
m
to expatiate upon a Subject; I am already so well acquainted with; for once throw
aside the — - '
, »•
3 Oh!
^ t.,
'V '
  f ’
Oh! stop there, good Maria— — know what you would call me; but at your own peril be it. — I positively bar all abuse, and if you’ll promise to be very good, will for once take the road of
< i
common sense, (however unfrequented the path) and endeavour, tho’ quite unfashionable, to Speak in a language which may stand Some Small chance of being understood. — Perhaps you’ll think I had ' better haye done this half an hour ago? Very likely. — I know your ideas are a little in the antideluvian way; but no matter; a lady of my fashionable style, is not easily led into the strict rule of right, and the unerring fitness of things, as my friend Square expresses himself— — foreign to the purpose. — * Ah! Better,
s
* Count hamilton’s fairy tales.
B 2 mon

i
mtm amt, commencer par le commencement Well, for once i’ll take compassion on you, and let you into the whole affair.
You must know then; our lovely old virgin, that beauteous nymph, whom but to see is to admire, is gone, lost, stole, disappeared; heavsh knows where, or how, shte is disposed of; but gone stie is. — Last night, at supper. She was missed — Much inquiry made after her by the old gentleman — no account of her since evening, when shie was seen iyalking towards the park. — drown’d, perhaps, in a fit of despair. This morning, the fisti pond dragged, if possible to find the meagre remains of the good maiden. — In vatn; I assured my wife grandfather, that Ihe had too great a regard for him, to deprive him
f
1 totally
  f
totally of so worthy a branch of his family. He would search all his filh ponds. — The canal likewise, in the garden, was ex,, to the great detriment of the poor
stfli, who had inhabited there for many
%
years with undisturbed repose— — aunt was to be found. — Her age and un questioned chastity, joined to want of fortune and attractions, forbid the fiippp fition of an elopement. - — Where then could stie, where indeed can the unfortunate old virgin be secreted!! Maria, helpjp^e to imagine what is become of her. — A chaise was seen to go Swiftly shrougb she town that evening, the blinds drawn pp. Impossible it could concern the nymph in question. - — We are tired with forming
B 3 conjectures
€
conjectures on the fate that, has befallen her.
Gymon, who, tho’ he has very little fear of his. Maker, is strongly impressed with a terrible idea of the power of his infernal Majesty, is seriously convinced, that she is taken away in a flash of lightning; and assures us, he dreamed a few nights ago that he saw her carried off upon a broom, - behind a black creature, with two horns and a tail, flashing blue fire from his nostrils, ears and eyes, which were as big as two full moons; and so shocked is he with the remembrance, that he has lain with the butler ever ssnce, and has so perfectly convinced all the servants of the truth of this assertion, that they none of them go about any business after
night.
 . p
night, without half a dozen of the, party; and whenever we ring' the bell, we are attended by six footmen at once, as, I suppose, the universe would not tempt any one of them to come along the passage ssngly.
Dicky, ever bent on mischief, and highly diverted with the isuperftition which reigns throughout the lower part of ^ the family, contrived a means, to confirm.
. them in their error, by dressing up a Servant of his own, in the complete form jof an infernal. ~ The lad took an opportunity of following one of the servants
i
into the kitchen, where was the game keeper, who unfortunately happens to be a Methodist, with several of the servants
N
playing at cards; this being the first time
B 4 poor
/
f THE MISTORV OP
poor Will had ever been drawn intan the great crime of gambling, he thought the d.., 1 was undoubtedly come for his books, and at the Same time to chastise him for his wickedness. With great agitation, he Sell on his knees, threw the
i
poor cards to the other end of the kitchen — begged for mercy, and made a Solemn promise never to play again, is he might but be Spared this once. — The other servants how endeavoured, by flight, to Seek ut an asyluhi in any hole or corner, to escapfe from this terrible Spectre; the bare idea of which, has for some time kept them in Such persect unity, that they might bfe almost laid to be one flesh; leaving the poor methodlst, who had hitherto been their chies coiinsellor, to pray them and
himself

himself ut of purgatory; and Beizcbub, from poor will’s increafmg incoherence and wildness of expression and looks, fear ing a longer stay might be attended with more serious consequences than was really meant it should, had, in his retreat, gained the further door which enters into the passage, when, as tom’s ill stars would have it, he was just coming from the parlour, and the lamp not giving the brightest light in the world, he run full against the spectre— — with hcmrror, and his hair erect:, he leap’d back with more agility than perhaps he ever did in his whole life before, and cried out. Murder, the devil, c. so lustily, that we all came running to see what had happened to him. Hearing this, young Lucifer
made.
%
lo
made his escape; and Tom, in endeavour ing to get away, fell over my monkey, who you know is so tame that he always runs loose about the house, and happened j ust then to be upon the scene of action. — New terrors now seized poor Cymon — Pug, affronted and terrified with the rude assault of the unfortunate Squire, began not only to chatter in a most uncommon manner, but likewise to make use of his claws and teeth.
Tom, whom the universe could not
have persuaded, but that all the devils in
the lower regions were pulling him to
» •
pieces, and making a Sricaffee of him, roared louder than ever for mercy; vowing, that is Aunt Pat had been ever so
m
wicked, he had by no means been concerned
s.
I
. •
¥'
 ' II
; cerned with her, and began Saying the lord’s prayer with great velocity. — In th is Situation we all found him. With. great difficulty Dicky raised him up; for the moment he began to touch him, Cymon, whose fears converted every
V
thing into new torments, roared out with added vociferation; — at last, with infinite pains, we got him on his legs, and by degrees he gained the use of his senses,
sufficiently to know who he had got about
>
him.
My grandfather, who no more than us had seen anything to molefi: him, but
■poor Pug, inquired with great gravity
%
into the cause of all this distraction. — ' Oh; Sir, says Tommy, I always teld ye, what would cum of hewing such
a one
• /
»
s
, 9.
9
P
II THE HISTORY OP
a one in the family; the D ... 1 judges u all alike, and not content with taking" of her, I doubts not, but he’h get several more of us before he has done; for far tain furc, he’h be paying you a visit next;
%
nay, I don’t know but he was coming, only I met him in the passage, and run against him, so that affrunted him with
Bic — — What does the fool mean? says
my grandfather, beginning to grow rather
%
out of humour with the young squire’s hl timed observation— — you any of you understand him? Ay marry, returns he, he’ll make you all understand him. time enuf: — look ye, i’fe gan hame to morn j I wad not stay in a house that. Satan hanted for all the world; —
, there’s no good ganging forward, i’fe Shyrc;
I w ad
  II
wad not stay amang you, for ever so mich; — I wad not be so flay’d again, jio, not for all th’ Indis.
A
The fellow’s certainly distracted, says old granddad dy, did you ever hear such
I
a pupp^? — Blessed me, child, says my grandmother, what can be the matter wish you? Nothing touched you but the Monkeyi it’s a shame for a young man to give way to such unaccountable fears. — ^ i suppose, you trod upon the monkey’s toe, and he bit you.
Why lord, ma’amj you are enuf to drive a body mad, — Does you think, I knows not whether I sees or not? — As shure as you are alive now, and standing there, the D ... 1 ran full against me, as I ws^s coming fra she parlour. — ^ Why
sore — *
14
sure— — I ken the D... 1 when I sees him? — Why, he’d horns and ears, with a tail, and a pich fork in his hand; and I’se shure, I felt his fork prick me several times; he struggled with me for a full loaf hour. — lise shure, it’s a marcy i’fe alive to tell it; — I’sewarrant, my klais will Smell of brimstone for this
twelve month to come.
%
The old folks shook their heads, saying, i’m Sorry for you; and returned into the parlour. — Many were the questions that Dicky put to him concerning this strange phenomenon, and different were his answers every time. — In short, if I
I
was to tell you.all the disturbance that this strange elopement of Aunt pat’s has made,
I stiould take up more time than I. have
♦ *. • k
to
\
f
0
, i
\
\
  ic
'ITO
Spare at present, or than the Subject
\
is by any means worth. I own, even my Superior judgement in unriddling in
P
tricacies, is infinitely posed, with regard to this strange accident. — However, time,
I hopcy will Satisfy' the general curiosity that possesses us; in the meanwhile,
b
My dear maria’s Sincerely devoted Emily Ravensworth.
«
\
0
t
(
I
/
a
/
i
4
; l
/
N.
0
/
L E T T E R LV
The same, to the Same.
WT ^ ^ Maria, did not I tell * ^ you, I should disappoint the confident Souls? — This morning began
the slavery of Charlotte Danby and
-»
my horrid cousin; and left your Emily to enjoy her darling sheedom, — No —
I posttively won’t marry these ten years. — •
#■
Let me See I — I am now what you may call about eighteen — can’t properly be styled an Old Maid before eight and twen ty. — Ten years good, at least — nay, twelve! — Time enough to dwindle into a wife at thirty: — bestdes, then, you know, I shall have an opportunity of
trying
%
  iy
trying the constancy of my oroon dates. — Do you think his flame would remain unabated for these twelve years to come r — a moot point that, Maria. — > But I know one thing, that if I marry the vrretch, I shall expect to be adored these twenty years. — No, upon Second thoughts, I don’t know whether I shall permit him to love me or not! — It is not fashionable in this very enlightened and elegant age for men and their wives to be fond of each other. — Oh! heavens I I vow, I would not be guilty of so great a solecism in politeness for the world. — ^ Mercy forbid, that your gay Emily should once throw off that ever admired character of a fine Lady, which she is So calculated to do justice to. — And vol. III C vet

yet there is a convenience too, in having
the things fond of one — no manner of occasion for returning the com(
(
you know. — Well, I don’t inuch care if I do permit my deary to have some little tenderness for me — provided he keeps it to himself, and does
not plague me with any odious compli
%
ments — Oh Lord! I am Sick at the very thoughts of it. — — Now do, dear Make

1 • »
kia, tell me, if you know anything half So shocking, as a languishing look and a compliment from one’s own husband;
by the way, Husband is a shock
»
phrase, Maria. — I wish I could
*
persuade Somebody to compile a new Dictionary, and let us have a Sresh cargo of fashionable words and Sentences. — I was
in
4
\
MISS raveb^sworfh.
in Wales one part of my life; had a
great inclination to learn the language;
thought it sounded very harmonious; but
could not readily catch that pretty rut
ling which they have in their throats, and
therefore Was obliged to give it up.
- Perhaps now your curiosity is imper
»
enough to think, I might have given you an account of the wedding. — So I will, by and by. — These men are
such impatient Souls, there is no poffi
*
bility of keeping them in any sort of Subjection, without exerting Such a Spirit as most Sortunately falls to the lot of your humble Servant; or elfe old square toes wmuld have deferred the ceremony, till Some account of our lost virgin. — But Dicky, who; by the by, is as obstinate
4
C 2 as
•*
20
as old Scratch, would, by no means,
, have his happiness (as he calls it) delayed.
— r A mighty happiness truly! to
/
have two poor wretches tied in a knot, which they are all the rest of their days tugging different ways to get loose, with
A
out a possibility of effecting the purpose.
#
witness, poor Mrs. Sandham. — What a Splenetic fit Mother Fortune must have been in, when Ihe Sormed Such a
V
wretch as her husband?? Sort of a fit the lady was in, when she consented to make him Such, I really cannot account for. Such fits, I believe, are Sel
%
heard of. — But a truce with digressions— — you have behaved your
I
sels with Some degree of decency, and Suffered me to proceed So Sar unmolested,
3 without
I
 1
#
without any impertinent interruptions, which are the most horrid things in nature, to a person So Sond of hearing
%
themselves talk as I am, I will, at length, endeavour to let you into the whole history of the marriage.
'On Monday Mrs. Danby arrived, to to See her niece bestowed upon my good
for nothing coustn; — a stster and aunt of Mr. blanche’s arrived likewise, to See their horrid relation bestowed upon me, I suppose. — IS So — I baulked them; but no matter for that — more of it hereafter. -- Nothing but the thoughts of
Sugared plum cake, and other appurtenances belonging to a country wed ding, could have detained Tom with us a day, after the black Gentleman had
C 3 given
f
xjtljci XT10XV /i\x J F
t ~
given so violent a Ihock to his delicate constitution — but this effected the bustnefs — plum cake was irreststible; and the squire, bidding defiance to his new., acquaintance, favoured us with his company.
Aster the arrival of Mrs. Danby — Dicky, not quite so respectsul in his carriage, as the thing they design to tie me to, pressed very earnestly for the
completion of the Sacred ceremony. -- --
Mrs. Danby, Charlotte, and the Old Don, would, as I told you besore, have delayed it, till Some tidings arrived
of the Old Virgin. -- -- -- - This Dicky
would by' no means hear of: — and Tom joined him. Saying, Satan never returned anybody, he once took away;
and
 5
and that, consequently, if they Staid for that, Miss Danby might grow as fusty an Old Virgin as herfeis. — Adding, that in his town, the D... 1 came in the form of a large Black Ram, and took
t
away a young woman; it was supposed, for being falfe hearted to her Sweetheart,
which made the man hang his selsand
that she never was Seen again.
My grandsather, with Some degree of
Servency, wished the Black Ram would be kind enough to take him, for his
impertinence — a wish that put Tom into no little consternation, and made him look behind, and turn his eyes cautiously round the room, to See is the black gentleman was coming; when, to his great Satisfaction, finding he was not,
I
C 4. he
2
f
he just mustered up resoiution to qxprefs his surprise how an aud man could be So wicked, and held his peace; — by doing which he gave my good coz an opportunity of continuing his Suit, which he pleaded so well that today was fix’d for their espousals,
Young Blanche (how durst he be So impudent I) then ventured to hope, that I would likewise crown his happiness. — Oh, by all means, says my grandmother; Emily will undoubtedly follow miss danby’s example, and both the marriages shall be Solemnised too aether. — Full as
O
much obliged to you both, as if I rca lly accepted the extraordinary happiness you
have designed for me. says need I tell
you who, Maria— — no, I thought
you
%
r
Miss ravensworth. 25
you would guess- -- i’ll stay a little
longer, if you please— — Emilit, says my grandmother, you Surely can’t be so ridiculous as you pretend. — No ambition to be the least ridiculous, madam; you may See that by my refusal to make myself So. — Indeed, child. Says old grandaddy, this is a very rude, and I must tell you, improper way of talking to your grandmother, and me — bestdes, showing a great deal of disrespect to the young gentleman’s relations — and indeed, to miss Danby, your coustn, and every one else. — Tired of talklno: to a Set of ob
o
stinate people, •\vlio did not understand good sense or reasoning, when they heard it — and Seeing old Square toes going to preach ex tempore — an undertaking, I
thought
o
%
20 irije. nioiv^js.r ur
thought his genius by no means equal to — I rose up, and fetching one of till lotson’s Sermons, put it into his hands — ■ told him an intention So pious should by no means be prevented — assured him,
I was quite disposed to hear him preach as long as he thought fit, and then Sat down with a full determination to be perfectly attentive— — as contradiction is the reigning passion belonging to these silly male creatures, he absolutely refused to do any Such thing — nay, even flew into a passion with me, for desiring it. — Would you believe it? did you ever know anything so unreasonable? — Never was poor girl So persecuted as I have been! — Charlotte, Dicky, Blanche, all Soliciting me to be as great a
fool
• A
A
 7
Sool as themselves. — Blanche knelt. Swore, talked Something about cruelty, patience, adoration, with a whole string
m
of terms I did not understand. — But all would not do — and your Emily remains in fiafu quo — Do you know, the wretch (Blanche, I mean; we have So many wretches in our Samily it is necessary to distinguish them) had the assurance to tell me. He begged I would decide his fate at once, and either fix a day to make
him happy, or let him know the full extent of his misfortune; and tho’ to
lose me would be worse than death, yet ’twere better to Suffer it nov, than still
to continue with me, and by finding out new charms Suffer an increase of love to which I would afford no cure, — Did ever
I
man
25 IHE HISTORY OF
/
ipan make so unreasonable a demand?
a
9
How cruel i to enlist upon my knowing my own mind — a thing that never happened to me in my life. — I told him. His request was entirely unprecedented; that I really was not sufficiently acquainted with my own intentions yet, to answer him; but that is he was in So great a hurry Sora wise, he had better find out another, and that I would be his Second. Could any woman make a fairer proposal?
"and yet the fright was not contented,
but got up, and walked off in a huff —
%
absolutely angry! — Ah, master Neddy,
\
if you rebel now, it will be quite an Herculean labour to keep you in any kind of order, when you are married. —
But to have done with my own affairs. —
Suffice
 9
#
Suffice it to say, that I was inexorable; but made a Sort of a kind of a Something like a promise, to take master neddy’s cafe into consideration, when my friend
Henny arrived to plead his cause— —
«
this they were forced to be content; and this morning, Ravensworth and the lovely Charlotte went to church without me : (as a fellow Sufferer, I mean) — They were accompanied by my grandfather and grandmother, my aunt
Evelyn, Mrs. Danby, Mr. blanche’s aunt and Sister, cousin Tommy, and myself— — my unsatiable curiosity
to See how they behaved, would not on
/
any account have Suffered me to stay at home, now I had made myself certain, that by going I run no risque of being
noosed
%
\
$0 THE hlstbry OP
noosed myself.) I will give you no account of the dresses. Since almost all wedding Suits are alike, and the description not at all Conformable to the volubility of my pen, which would, if possible, run faster than my tongue; but now being weary, vvill be very glad to conclude.
Poor Charlotte trembled much, when she came near the altar, (no great
«
wonder that, I think) and Spoke So low, that the cherry cheek’d parson desired her to raise her voice. — How provoking that was! I declare, when I go to church on the Same occasion, I won’t Speak at all; — tho’, i’m afraid, that will be revenging myself on myself— — the ceremony lasts at least an hour — and to be Silent an hour — Oh lord! Oh lord! — -
4 1 shall
%
MISS ravensworth. 31
I shall never be able to bear it. — Poor Charlotte, at last, got through the
N
frightful affair; and we all returned, to perform the necessary appendages to matrimony;
I mean, ssicing bits of plum
%
drawing it through the ring, and folding it neatly up in papers, to distribute among the young virgins, who have a dessre to be acquainted with their future spouses— — night, the old Don gave a ball; to which all the principal families in the neighbourhood were invited.
When the bride and bride groom retired, young Cymon was desirous cf
I
throwing the stocking; but this motion, to his great mortification, was by no means Seconded. — He vow’d he would have it thrown when he was vred. —
A deter
52,
A determination which no body attempted to oppose— — then comforted himself with the remains of the plum cake — pocketed a piece, which had been drawn through the ring, to lay under his pillow; and about three in the morning,
our company broke up, and retired each to their Separate apartments, to reap the benefit of their cake. — But Morpheus, whether considering me, as the youngest in the family, or as being at home, and already provided with a Swain, or for whatever reason else I know not, deferred his visit to me, till I had
t
finished giving you this account; to which I have the triumphant fatisfactioi^ of still signing myself,
Your ever affectionate friend;
Emily Ravensworth,
A
' 3
# •
LETTER LVII

9
Mrs. Clayton,
To Miss Emily Ravensworth,,
T F yoa expect:, my dear Emily, to
receive any compliments upon the
excessive levity of your behaviour, I am
Sorry to affure you, that you will find
yourself most highly mistaken— — - is
impossible for a thinking mind, ever to
find the least pleasure in the pain it gives
to others. — You either mean to marry,
or you do not. I will not, from the
early knowledge I have Sormed of you,
fey any means, take your character from
the portrait you yourself have drawn, r
- / must suppose, that the infinite good.
vol. IIL ■ D shnsh,
I
0
*3
sense you are mistress of, when you take it into your head to make use of it —; ■ will, much better than I can do. Show you the impropriety of your conduct. — If you intend to marry Mr. Blanche, why stiould you endeavour to keep him in suspense? Why not agree to the wishes of the whole family? and comply with the destres and example of your friends, by going to church at the same time with Mr. Ravensworth and Miss Danby? — This you have declined; and expect me to congratulate you upon a petulance of disposition, that may turn ut, if you do not use some caution, th misery of your future life. — How muclji were you mistaken in me, my dear girl and how unworthy would your Maria
'be
w
4
A
%
 5
be of that friendship and confidence you have honoured her with, if She did not endeavour to Set your conduct: in it’s proper light? — consider, dear Emily, how many bad consequences may be the result
of Such a delay. — How do you know but Lord Wilton may again attempt to get you into his power? And how can you So well guard against it, as by putting yourself under the protection of an amiable husband?? do you not think, that by Such an unparallel’d levity, and really permit me to call Jt want of
* X ^ ^, ...
■ C •• t. v ' n, /te•
feeling, you must, " iriiisome measure, alienate the esteem of the man you mean to pass your lise with? — Love may, for some time, render him blind to all shefe things j but if he is a man of
D 2 fen
^ » *
V’*

Sentiment, believe me, as Soon as the first blast of passion is worn ost he will begin seriously to think upon your, conduct:, he will find it ungenerous, unsentimental, and highly blameable. — Believe me, dear girl, love and friendship are often founded on a very different basts. — A fine figure, an agreeable vivacity, and many personal charms, may attract the notice of an admiring lover — ■ but these Soon, very Soon, - grow familiar, tasteless, and insipidj without the further ' aid of mental accomplishments. — To
W
; gain his friendship, his esteem, you must
0
r make it your study to please; to find out t what is most agreeable to him, and to t be whatever you' think he would wish r you most; - — by this means, gratitude
will

will ever Secure you an adequate return,
and your own conduct, the esteem of; / 1 j him and all your acquaintance.! No
i man of real worth and Sentiment can
T •
I be blind to merit; by making your own I home always cheerful and agreeable, you
I
] Secure to yourself the company, the atten
%
>
I tion of the man you love the best;
The many crost'es this world affords, to people in every rank and Situation of life, wall make them ever fly to any asylum that will shelter them, from the vexations they are oppressed with. In such a cafe, show much a fond, a tender, an affectionate wife, has it in her power to sooth their cares, and make thejr lives glide on in perfect tranquillity anst cafe: — — how much will a husband value
4
P 3 Iwch
O'
«
>
5s
Such a woman, and with what uninterrupted felicity must they Spend their days: how agreeable ought Such a prospect to appear to a young lady, just entering into that state! — Why will not my dear Emily endeavour to See things
in a proper point of view? — Why will
•r
She not embrace the happiness that opens to her, and immediately take for lise a man, whose merit Seems to alture her, that it must, indeed, be her own Sault, if (he is not persectly blessed. I should have wisti’d to have been with you at this juncture, but I am tied to a husband, it is my duty and inclination to oblige; and though he is not of that Sentimental turn, which I have just now been describ ing, yet, believe me, I am quite contented
MISS RAVENSWORTF. 0
tented with my fituatlon, and find it, by a compliance with his will, in my power to make myself perfectly happy. I know
A
the vivacity of your ideas will immediately suggest to you, that this is downright slavery, that it is living always in a state of subordination, dependancy, and so forth. — These, I know, would be the petulant expressions of my little friend — but do not be too quick in forming your opinions. — I grant you, if you did not love your husband, it might be so; but is there not, think you. Such a thing as loving to such a certain degree, as to make every desire of his the wish of your own heart? Belieye me, Emily, those who really love, would punish themselves In the most essential manner, by opposing
D 4 the
f
40 THE HISTORY, QF
the inclinations of the object they ador’d* Such, my dear girl, are your maria’s fentiinents; such, I hope, wist be youra when you come seriously to reflect upon the state you are going to enter into, — ^
Txcufe my freedom, in having said so
much — eagerness for your welfare and stappinefs has induced me, perhaps, to be over free: — r if so, I beg your pardon, and hope the mutual confidence which has, fubfisted between us from children, will plead my excuse,
And now, I must proceed to insorm you of a piece of news, which I dar say will give you pleasure; though it caus’d a mixture both of joy and un eafiness in mysels, — Mr. Sandham is dead Detected in the commission
pf
>
9
 t
of a forgery, he was oblig’d to Secret
himself. The fear of justice, and intemperance of living, threw him into a high Sever, of which, two days ago, he expir’d. I am glad that his wise is releas’d; but shock’d at the manner in ’ which he made his exit, cursing and blaspheming — at the same time expressing the greatest horrors at his approaching Sat. — How terrible a thing is vice? It is amazing to me, the ill consequences which ever Sollow, do not deter people from running into it. — I wrote to Mrs. Sandham last night, and expect now she will shortly be in town.. Adieu, my sweet little friend — the next time I am savour’d with an epistle, I hope to See a change
of
42
of signature; till then, give me leave to affure you, how sincerely I am
Your most affectionate friend,
Maria Clayton.
4
r'
%
k
4
X
9
• <
r
t
4
S
S
 $
#
LETTER LVH.
»•
_ _ _ _ y
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
ERDITION take thee, and thy Machiavelian counsels, says I. — What a damn’d fool I was, to trust a scheme of such consequence to thy management, who stiew’d so little capacity in carrying on thy own small affairs. — And what a fet of Myrmidons, as you call them! Rascals, poltroons, blundering blockheads, scarce fit to be employ’d by that old fuccubus of a thief taker in the purlieus of Covent Garden. — But to proceed. — When I had been waiting upwards of two hours, towards the close of the evening, with the most
eager
A
4
eager expectation; I, at length, saw thy rascals hurrying towards me, with a female in the midst of them; whom they put into the chaise, and I immediately following, away v/e drove with amazing velocity. For sometime we remain’d stlent, till at last I caught her in • my arms, and with great ardour prefs’d her to my bosom— — now I had her in my
4
power, she should never part from me; and was proceeding in the most elegant
and lover like style, when I was saluted
%
an unknown voice, of rather the hoarfest kind, and defir’d to say. What Was my intention,, who I was, and why I had carried, her off in that manner? — Struck dumb with the mistake, I now Sound had been made, I was thrown into
the
V
 $
the most perplexing reverie how to proceed; when upon every jolting of the chaise, Ihe Squalled out a hideous Shriek,
V •
and vow’d. She would rather die than
Suffer me to work my filthy designs upon
%
her. In vain I defir’d her to make hersels easy, fly stili persisted; ’till coming to a very rough road, and the jolting of the chaise increasing, ftie made Such a hideous ncise, that Searing I miffht lose
^ 00
the use of my ears, I was oblig’d to Swear a loud oath, and tell her. That is Ihe did not hold her tongue immediately, I w’ould flop the chaise, and proceed to the
«
utmost extremities with her, that instant— — I suppose, with this threat, she was filent, and suffer’d me, during the rest of the journey, to
5 remain
%
V
46
remain in peace; all which time, I was projecting a scheme, how to turn this adventure to my advantage — At length we arrived at my old friend’s. Sir Robert b’s, whose house on the forest:, 1 had borrowed for the purpose—
— handed my Dulcinea into the
/
diningroom, which was ready prepar’d for us; and at the door, left her with an apology for so doing; then went to give some necessary orders : those finisti’d, I prepar’d with all imaginable expedition to throw myself into her arms, there to repay myself for the disappointment I had met with in respect to Emily' — I enter’d the diningroom on tiptoe, with a heart full of the tenderest expectation, (for you know. Bob, if a girl is barely'
tolerable.
 7
tolerable, I never flinch) when finding an old woman by the fire, and thinking my chance lady (who had muffled her face up foin coming from the chaise, that I could not possibly see it) had retir’d into another room — I addrefs’d her as Sir thomas’s housekeeper; and alk’d if fly knew where the young lady was, whom I had brought thither. — Young lady, me no young ladies, says she; I know of no one you brought hither but myself— — what purpose.. I can’t tell, but i’ll afsure you, any designs against: py virtue will be in vain; for i’ll sooner die than give my consent. Thinking she was mad, I was endeavouring to gain the door and make my escape; but before I could
4 possibly
4^ .
possibly effect it, she grip’d me hard hf
the Shoulder, and desired to know what
%
I would, do with her, and why I detain’d her there against her will. — Who,
I detain you here, says I with great eager
A
'ftefs — what do you mean, madam? — You certainly mistake the matter — 1 afliire you the passage is quite free — <>opening - the door — you are at liberty
»
to depart as soon as you please— — so, replied file; this is the way you
I
treat a lady whom you have brought here and trepann’d from her Sridids. ■ — tre pann’d from her friends, replied I, in the greatest aftoniiliment; why, I never Saw you in my life besore. — Zounds, you are a pretty Subject indeed to trepan — pray, be So good as to retire
to
 9
/
to bed and compose yourself; perhaps a night’s rest will bring you to yourself, and Convince you of your mistake—
— you impudent, good for nothing tafcalj returned ftie, her face inflam’d with rage, (which, Gorgon like would have petrified a less daring spirit thaii mine) will you deny to my face that you brought me here in a chaise— — I know your intent— — design ■so take advantage of my weariness; and ravish me when I'm asleep— — I shall disappoint you; for I wont go to bed in this house, let me stay ever so long. — At this I burst into a loud laugh, upon viewing her grotesque figure Represent to yourself, a pretty tall woman, extremely thin — nay, sh short,
yoi. III ie the
<
0
h
, 50
the befl: defcriptlon I can give you of
her, is to suppose two deal boards before
%
you nailed together, with a - death’s head on .the top, by way of indicating it’s being of the human species (only, her Ikin so much inclined to the olive,. that it has a much more unnatural and
I
formidable appearance than the naked
ikull) — Ravish you, ha! ha! ha! says I; why, i’d as soon ravish my grandmother, who has been dead these twenty years — why, my sweet Madam, you are fitter for a charnel house, than a young fellow’s bed — I am now fully persuaded you have been walking in your Sleep, therefore pray take my advice — go to bed and get your nap out, and in the morning i’ll talk to you about this matter
- rat
4
A ’
i
A
MISS ravensworth.
•’ • r
— at present I want to Seek out the young lady I told you of on my entrance — •
and So wish you a good night. — I accordingly took up one of the candles; but by Jupiter, Bob, great as my resolution is, the sight of her countenance terrified me.
- — I gave a slip back, and, put mysels into a posture of desence, making what I defign’d as a light, Serve me instead of a Sword— — first her rage was dumb, and wanted words — ‘but,, as : lothario Says, when it Sound way, ’twas wild and loud— —, as the priestess of the Delphic God — She did indeed call me villain and monster, with a whole string of other
/
names, which Ihe utter’d with Such ve
«
hemence and velocity, that I can’t for my Soul remember them; at length She com
V
E 2 pos’d
■$$ THE HISTORY QF
i
posed herfeif sofar aa to alk me if I would also deny having tbr^tep’d to complete my wicked dellgna in she chaise, and mentioned fcane other circumstances wmch occurr’d' on she road, that left me in no doubt of she terrible mis Sortune
shat had happened to me Trembling
»
passion at my double dhfeppointment, for novr 1 had no chance of any consolation, I just mustered up lefolution to desire Ihe wouhf make herfeif casy, as furing her that ftie was i no danger that 1 sound I bad made a mistake which I would endeavour to rectify as soon as possible' ' returning her to her friends: — that for the present I would call the sorvant to light her to bed which having donej I bad her good nighrt. The
old
MISS RAVRKSWORTH, n
old beldame did not look at all pleas’d 5 however, she follow’d the servant, and I heard her bolt h dor. — I imme idiately sent for the rafeil s Who committed the blunder; and after having almost ehoak’d the one whom I had employed as foreman in the affair, and fright'iied the others out of their wits, I <jueftioned
p
them very severely about it not being
able to conceive Who I had got —
%
but she left me as teach in the
V
dark as ever; for he swore, that on the very day, jfeeing her at some distance from the house, he had alk’d a labourer belonging to the family who she was, and was told Miss Ravensworth; that she was Sure he could not be mistaken, for
she went close by him, and bad on the
^ g 3 very
'f \
>00^ .v
5
very same gown, as when they brought her off. — Foaming with rage, at being still in the dark, I kick’d them all downstairs, and having rackm my brains to no purpose, to. account for the man’s giving him so fallacious an account with regard to her name; I found myself too much vex’d to sleep, and so sat down to give you this account: but now finding an inclination to indulge myself in the arms of Morpheus, I shall for the present conclude, and give you the rest of
i *
this d .... d adventure in the remaining part qs my letter. Adieu till morning,
I
p
IN CONTINUATION.
Well, Bob, who the D do you think I have got? — - The dog was right
— it
 5
t
— it was, indeed. Miss Ravensworth, an old maiden aunt of emily’s. — I
have had an odd scene with her, as per
%
you ever heard of — but to proceed in form. — In the morning I arole, curfediy chagrin’d, and breakfast ready, sent up a very respectful meltage, desiring her company, which She positively resus’d to grant me; telling the Servant, that she would neither eat nor drink in
4
the house.' — I then requested she would permit me to .Send her breakfast into her own room : — no, — that would not do neither — So finding; her obstinate, I e’en
O ^
took a stroll into Sir thomas’s gardens, which, you know, are very fine; where i indulg’d mysels in the summerhouse library for about two hours, with read
4 ing
4
, 6
ang some select meditations. • — Being tired with that, I took two or three turns round the garden — when, Just as I was going info the house, I saw my Incog jiita come into the walk I was leavings p- -- immediately turn’d round to pay
her the compliments of the day; but
0
she jio fooper discover’d me, than away she went, I pursuing her; and, as she reach’d the gate, I caught hold of her,
— Pretending she was Sainting for want of breath, she Sunk into my arms; and I bore her into an alcove hard by — where haying Seated her, she Saintly exclaim’d
— Softening, as much as possible, the rigidity of her Seatures, — I hope. Sir, you worst hurt me! nor thus meanly take advantage of my disorder, to complete

 7
pleat any wicked design upon my virtue; confider, Sir, the injustice of such a proceeding
— to be sure, you are a very
PERSONABLE MAN, but on so short an acquaintance, even to stay in your cora ^ pany, is, I think, going too great length at present, without a third person by. — Scarce could I refrain laughing in her face, at feeing she old beldame all at once grown so antorous; but the apprehension of being ravish’d in my turn by this reverend piece of antiquity, suspended my indulging any risible emotions at. that time; and I know not but I Should actually have run away, is the Servant
had not most opportunely come to an
%
dinner’s being on the table. — >■ Never was poor .criminal at the gallows
2 more
58
t
%
more rejoic’d at a reprieve, than I was
«
at hearing this Summons — I Sprung up with the greateff alacrity, and offer’d her my hand, which she refus’d, and obstinately persever’d in her resolution of neither eating nor drinking. — At length, however, I prevail’d on her, and we Seated ourselves at table in due Sorm — ^ and now a Sresh difficulty, arose; she would, not taste either beer or wine, without my doing So first— — she Said, lest I should have put love powders in them. ’
At this, I could no longer contain, but’
burst out into an immoderate fit of
\
% '
laughter, which entirely drove away the april suns from her face, and recalled the tempestuous clouds, with which, to the great damage of my nerves, I had
been *
*
%
MISS R AVEN S W O R T H. $9
been. favour’d the night before. — The thoughts, of this, brought, me to myself, and composing my features, I very gravely told her that Toth her age and person render’d her very safe, in my' opinion, from any such attempts, and therefore I hop’d Ihe would throw off her unjuft Suspicions, and do justice to the dinner. — Age and person — fellow!. Says ■ she — - her eyes .flashing Sury — T would have you to know, it’s much too good for you. — What, do you bring me here to insult. me, you villain? — what’s your name?. — ^i’ll have you punish’d, I vrill. — My disappointment
V
just then coming into my head, and, the comparison between her and Emily, being. So very unfavourable, I Somewhat

4
6o
what pettishly told her, that I brought her by mistake, instead of a much more desirable object; the favour, says I, was design’d for miss Emily ra vensworth^ who Sometimes takes her walk in the park you was brought from. — So then. Says she, it was to her I am indebted for this ihfnlt; I believe sho was born for my eternal vexation. And now the murder all came out; and she informed me, she was aunt to Emily — and gave mt
hints that she hated her, and would Join with me in a Scheme to get her
a' k
once more into my power — But the trouble I have already been at, and the Sear of picking up her great grandmother next, have determin’d me to
give
i.
N.
s
 t
give over the pursuit. — I have sent aunt Martha home again, and/lhall set off for town in a Sew. days. — TUI I see you,. Adieu f
Yours,
wiltoiffc;
0
K
*
I
^ /
%
V
/
i
a
e
.<. %
A
SI

6a   :
■5
LETTER LIX
;. Miss Emily Ravensworth,
%
To Mrs. Clayton.
4
O S T potent I grave! and reverend Maria! that you hav? certainly compos’d the most ingenious epistle I ever read, is indisputably true; — true, 1 have been beyond measure entertain’d by it— — where in the name of common sense, child, did you pick up all these little Soft Sentiments? — Frequented
the Tabernacles, I suppose, and been bit
\
by a mad preacher? Very Sorry for you,
indeed, — think you ought to have proper
advice— — know which of the
#
faculty are most famous for curing these sort of desperate diseases; if I did, "would
certainly

certainly recommend one to you, I hope,
however, you are not yet quite enrolled in the list of incurables. — Lord, how
ft
delightful to have seen you whilst you was writing it; — your eyes turn’d up to heav’n, like a dying whiting — your hands uplifted, every now and then, and pouring out ejaculations to all the saints, that they might assist your pious purposes!! — this a true portrait? — - Ah, Maria, if I can’t draw my own character, depend upon it. i’ll have a touch at yours. • — And so you really imagin’d, that your little friend would be converted into as arranf a tame turtle as yourfeis. As much oblig’d to you as
t
if stie was. — la pretty figure I should make, indeed, if. it were possible I could
5 dwindle
«4
dwindle into that thing you describe your letter.; — don’t believe I shall ever" turn cabbage, tho’ persuaded to it by your vegetative ladyship. it’s bard enough, I think, the alternative between Matrimony and antiquated virginity — no oe cafion for any more rubs to lay in our way — If we can onee Swallow that pill, we ought, in return, never to be contradicted for the rest of our days. — I vow I never will — I am determin’d always to do just as I please— — but a Syllable against it, my very Sententious friendj and i’ll die an old maid out of
I
pure Spite. Now only do suppose, (a
horrid Supposition by the by) that I
would be fool enough to become the wretch’s wife I Is it ever possible that I
could
ft
MISS ravensworth. 6^
tould follow the example of icttarlotte
%
Ravensworth and her rib? — So fondj and so Soolish! always dancing after one
ft
another like a couple of tantany pigs —
the tears starting into her eyes if He
'/ happens to be absent half a second longer
than she expects. — Oh!! — a dose of Ipecacuanha could not possibly prove a more powerful emetic; — But, however now, Maria, could not you have been a little more concise in your expoftulationsj child? I am sadly afraid you have exhausted your whole ftoek at one sitting, without confideringj if I do marry Neddy — your wise head, will certainly find out that a few more documents will be absolutely necessary— — me feel’ll read the pretty composition again,
volhil F though'
A
6
tho’ i’m sure it will coll: me a bottle of hartshorn, before I can possibly get through with it — -1 shall be terribly sick, but no matter — let me see — Oh! The petulance of my difpoftfion, the misery t)f my future life, — Lord, child, if you had liv’d some years ago, you’d have stood some small chance of being burnt for a witch. — Pray who made you a prophetess i — Did the spirit move you the last time you was in the congregation of the godly? or do your dealings lay among the inhabitants of the lower regions? — The Devil can quote feripeure
t
for his purpose, they say. Sometimes; I hope he has not been busy with you, as Well as us. — You Say, I was mistaken in you. Ah! no, Maria — pray don’t
make
Miss RAVENSWORTH.
ttiake yourself uneasy about that' — I own I never took you for a conjurer,, but other wise, I always was perfectly con vmc d that you was what the world calls a very good sort of woman. — I know yoa always say your prayers, regularly night and morning — do as your husband bids you — don’t often commit a breach of the commandments, and write letters of advice to your reprobate friends; which by the by, though it may be extremely well meant, you’ll certainly
N
have to answer for one day or other, since they turn one horribly lick; and I do believe, hadcthere been much more, I should have been thrown into a high fever. Now how you can tax me with want of feeling, when your sermon made
F 2 such
a  '
Such an impression upon me,. I can'^^r think. — I do affure you,, ray sensations upon the occafionf were very exquisite,
4
and sofar from wanting feelings, £
/
exprefs’d a great variety of them,, during the three hours which you was uncon shionable enough to employ me. — I laugh’d, yawn’d, testified surprise, pity Bcc. For the future,, dear gbl, don’t be wicked enough to allege slanderous accusations
against me, — i’ll forgive you this once — We have all our. faults, to be
Sureand even I, for instance, have now
and then had mine. * — But how came your
very knowing ladyship to find out that a
man could love me the better, for trying
to oblige him— — Maria, I
thought you. knew the frights (thougst
foolish
ft

Soolish enough God knows) had yet sense enough to be convinc’d, that no body of common understanding can like them, at least, w’ith any degree of propriety; their
vanity, indeed, may be fiatte/d by one’s
« »
condescension, but it will never make the creatures use one in the least degree better, believe me; No — I am sure, now, if you would but own the truth, we should find out that you wrote the unfortunate letter entirely against your own conscience— — had modesty enough to make an apology for it, to be sure, which I accepted of, on account of the joyful news it contains of Mr, sandham’s death. — There will be another wedding,
m
I suppose!! Lord, how ridiculous people are! If the rage of matrimony
F 3 continues
4
y
yo
continues in our circle of acquaintance, as it has begun, we must be forc’d to raise a contribution towards building
Am
another hospital for the reception of lunatics. — Bless me, a chaise stopp’d at the door. I must run down and see who it has brought, I will finish this by and by,
JN CONTINUATION.
As I live, another pair of cooing turtles. — Oh! there’s no such thing as bearing this — Mr. and Mrs. Crosby arriv’d; brought with them a Mr. Downing, a very pretty fellow. i’ll affure you. — But I believe I may spare
ft
myself that trouble, for you have seen
him before — he brought you that letter
I wrote
s
I
«
  ff
f wrote from my confinement. — They have been, like dutiful children, to hold np their daddies for papa’s forgiveness, promising never to commit the like gain— — all was vain;. Old Testy fet them off without it, and poor Henny, ever fond of creating herfeif uneafiness, Srets hersels to death about it. — The certain consequengeros people’s being ridiculouay sentimental! ■! — banish Sentiment, Sermons, and preachers,, with the whole et cretera of attendants, Say I. — I am, without having one affliction in the world mysels, the most miserable creature in it, merely from being pester’d with a pack of toads, that plague me from morning till night, about refin’d ideas, delicate fensations, and Sp
F 4 forth, — ^
!
fi   S
forth. — The first thing done after the vfual compliments, was to tell Henny of she high and mighty crimes I had been guilty of, during her absence— — was
t
arraigned, convicted, and condemn’d;,
A
and am shortly, I suppose, to be executed. — No matter. — There are many other poor creatures under the same sentence as myself, and, at least, I shall have the satisfaction of suffering in good company, — My grandfather began ari awkward attempt towards oratory again. — But instead of fetching tillotson’s fermons, to assist his genius, I put your letter into his hands : r but, obstinate according to custom, he would not read it. ■ — However, dicky’s curiosity would not let him rest, he begg’d leave to
look
\ I
 3
look at it, and he was wicked enough, in
I
Spite of me, to read it up to the whole company, who sat as mute as so many mackrel, — admir’d the fineness of the Sentiments, because they happen’d to coincide with their own silly ideas; and all join’d in wishing the amiable writer here, with
4
Her most sincerely affectionate
Emily Ravensworth,
A. ^ 90 ‘
<0
%
n
« * ft ’
‘ 4
9
\
9
\
\
%
W
7
L E T T E R LX
Miss Emily Ravensworth,
To Mrs. Clayton.
ft
Give m breathing time, dear girl,
and i’ll tell you such an adyen
•
ture. — Aunt Pat — the old virgin — she’s come again. — heav’n grant,
she mayn’t have been overcome — she has absolutely been run away with.
Yesterday, about twelve o’clock, a post chaise came whirling into the yard. — -1, ever Sojid of new Saces, most
I
sincerely wishirig I might See Something jess horrid, than the vile collection of phizzes which Surround me at our antiquated mansion, ran, with a degree of
impatience.
MISS ravenswortst. 75
impatience, to see what it contain’d; when, death to my hopes, out tumbled — " I won’t tell you who, Mrs. Clayton — if your genius can’t find that out, you may remain in ignorance for Emily. — But supposing your superior talents to Jiave penetrated into my meaning; — you Jcnow you setup for a prophetess before — and imagine, aunt Pat descending from the vehicle. — Suppose too, the consternation of all the spectators— — your
s
Imagination is not warm enough to paint them in their proper colours, i’m sure my pen is by no means adequate to the talk — efpeclally those who were so fully persuaded of her being carried off by his infernal majesty: however, out flic
A •
same, — I, the first that saw her,
f
fal u ted
t
y6
t
Saluted her very respectfully, and begg’l to know what had so long depriv’d us of her agreeable company, — Tom no sooner fet his eyes on her, than with hands uplifted, and repeating the Belief,
A
instead of the lord’s prayer, which he meant to Say, thinking it a certain charm against ■witches. Spectres, che ran away again. — The Servants could hardly be persuaded, that it was no hideous apparition from the other world; and, in short, all the Samily were in consuston. My grandfather was glad to see her — -
so was my aunt Evelyn — the only
»
members in the family, I believe; that
¥
were. — As soon as she had stated herfeif,
olds quare toes defir’d to know where she had been So long; — and now the mighty
2 affair.
MISS ravensworth. yf
affair, which had puzzled our wise noddles so much, was unravell’d. —
Been, Sir! twisting her fcraggy neck, and then turning tome; Oh! madam, says she, it is you that I may thank for the shocking indignities I have fuffer’d,
L
stnce I was forc’d away from my father’s house— — Sir, I tremble yet at. the thoughts of the danger I have under -- gone. — I was walking, very composedly, in the park, with a book in my hand, which I had taken to read, when just as i open’d it. Six russians laid hold of me — stop’d my mouth — and hurried me to a chaise, into which they cramm’d me with Lord Wilton; who told me hist name Since, and affur’d me he was Sar from meaning me Such an affront — but
ft
the

the fellows had mistaken me for emily At this we all burst into a loud laugh — • which no sooner fublided, than with all the gravity I was mistress of, I addrefs’d myself to her — So, aunt Patty, you have succeeded me with Lord Wilton,
1 find— — hope you have given his lordship more satisfaction than I did j tho’ by your quick return, it seems as if one, or both of the parties, had found some cause of discontent— — dare say it was not on his part though; for nothing in nature could be more desirable than so blooming and beautiful a Hebe as you have always been esteem’d, by all the male part of the creation. — This caus’d
ft
another burst of laughter — and Tom, who by this time began to recover the
use
m
Miss ravensworth.
/
life of his reason a little, broke out into an ejaculation of surprise; at her pudence, for supposing anybody could, tak such an old hag, for cousin Emmy. • — This had very near occafion’d
one of those long altercations, with which we had so often been diverted before. — But Dick interrupted the dispute, by asking his aunt. If she would not wish him and his bride joy. — Turning up her lip, with an air of contempt. She affur’d him, she never wish’d people joy of any such change in their condition, as she thought the folly of entering into it, deferv’d the punishment it generally met with. Soho, says Tom, the grapes are sower — Which would certainly have brought the enrag’d virgin on hi; back;
3 but
$
0
'to the HISTORY or
a
but I immediately took out my tablets
i
e
fet down her sententious answer, and vow’d, that during the course of ten years, it was the only rational remark I had ever heard her make— — Evelyn thought I took too great liberties, with an aunt — she must own, she thought them by no means allowable— — soul — what a clever remark! What a pity it is, dear creature says I, you should ever think at all, since it seems to be So little to the purpose— — you been So many years in lise, endeavouring to collect: a Small
ft
i
quantity of fcatter’d ideas'together; and is your end so ill accomplifli’d? ■ — The lady was filent. — ipat and her fimper’d
and fmil’d, look’d a little Sillier than
common
mirs ravenswortii. u
common, and tied up their clappers, till another opportunity. — After all, Maria,
I don’t like this accident Of the chaste maiden’s — much oblig’d to her, to be sure, for taking the journey ih my stead but had miich rather have heard that Lord Wilton had been quiet — what’s to be done? — ^ If old grandaddy takes any course of law with him, it exposes one’s character, and blows an affair which is much better buried in obliviohi I know what your impertinence will
immediately Suggest— — Mr. Blanche, and all your Sears may Subffde. — ^
Why, I can’t tell biit the wretch may prevail upon me in time — Do you know, he has hals persuaded me already. — Lord, Lord, Maria, what a vol, III G ridiculous
i
$
tz  ,
\
ridiculous figure I must make, once dignified with the appellation of Mijirefs : '
— What a number of consequential airs,
Ir. shall give myself— — aftoniftiing it
i
is to me, that a state of slavery and subordination can, by any means, pro d uce that air of importance, which all
ft
you yok’d turtles take upon yourselves—
— is one Mrs. Clayton, for instance— — old schoolfellow of mine,
— a good decent sort, of a rattle cap girl once; the moment She got married, do you know, she had the alturance to purse up her little mouth, into the most primitive, demure posture in the world, and talk about conduct, ’ a proper reserve and a whole string of other absurdities, absolutely abusing me for levity,
t
i
  gj
vlty, as Ihe call’d it: -- - Did you ever know anything so monstrous?? — fearing lest the change in her situation,
should have impast’d her intel lectual faculties, I gaz’d on her, with filent astonishment— — ■ and in pom passion, fuffer’d her to proceed, thinking that when she had entertain’d her s self, and spun out the thread of a discourse, which allow’d of no great va < riety, there was some small probability
0 A
she would change the subject: : a few days ago, I receiv’d a Sermon Solded in the Sorm of a letter, which wanted nothing but a text to make it complete r -- This, her genius had forgot, J siippose, or perhaps, Soaring above the comrnon level, she disdaln’d quotations, and chose
G 2 to
«.
I
A
4
84
to have, the composition all her own;
— Ah original it was, that’s certain J
— quite upon a new system, or rather so old, that by being long exploded, it has now the charm of novelty. — And now, Maria, for fear I should have rais’d in you any extraordinary curiosity,
to see the strange production, TH enclose
/
to you. — I know you’ll think this Mrs. Clayton, an absurd creature, as
ever was born. — Young Mrs. Ravensworth has her airs of consequence,
, and Mrs. Crosby is absolutely
\
infufferableyou see, I have at last
ft
* found out, that there is more privileges in this same married state, than I ex psctshj and if I give up an inch of
them.
%
I
  Bs
them after I enter into it, then say, I am no true woman.
There is Harriot Manning, for instance, but by the by, I am afraid ihe is infected with the rage of matri
i
'money too, for Mr. Downing and she ogle one another, like two intriguing
ducks in a mill pond, I hope yoa
/
understand the ftmile; — I promise you, it’s a very good one — but she won’t be married so soon as me perhaps; and as she is she only Miss I can exert my talents upoii, be Sure, I will not baulk V my genius, but take her into my dres smg room, and give her a ieflbn of morality every morning, by way of breakfast.
G 3 This
/
/
• I
86
This is the way with all yonr fobef frights, who fancy yourselves clever.
I know I pay yoa too great a compliment in condefeending so follow your example — but, perhaps, I may; shike out a new system of morality, entirely my own. — You are fenshblo I have a peculiar method in doing everything
»
— and that method must be allow’d genuine. — Ah, no doubt, Maria, but 1 stiali cnat as singular a figure, when dwindled into shat thing called a Wise
as I do in my present state of vir
\
«*• After all now, my dear fenten tibus marpa, if at was not for that Shocking trade, of leading apes, (which must certainly be horridly fatiguing.) the agreeable neddi' Blanche, if he
^ could
/
\
I
 7
could not find a maiden more to his
mind than me, would be under an in difpenfible necessity of dying an old bachelor. — Lord now, my dear girl, do let me know, (for you have given proofs, that your knowledge is extensive) what becomes of old bachelors in the next world. — Surely some enormous employment must be affign’d them in bel zebub’s dominions, for ncgledting the happiness of cuckoldom in this. Ancient tradition tells us, that ail cucfcoids go to heav’n; modern history teiis you, cuckoldom is a certain appendage to matrimony; consequently, when they rei

fuse to enter into that holy state, they bid defiance to the upper regions, which are most iiofpitably even’d to receive
G 4 them.
88
them, and consign themselves over their more intimate acquaintance in the lower ones.
Here you see, how infinitely men have the advantage over us. — We can send our spouses to heav’n at pleasure; and in my opinion, it’s a sin not to do it, since no one action of their own will ever provide so well for them; — while we, poor women, are oblig’d to depend on ourselves for a provision in futuro; as it never was said, that the male creatures could dispose of us in so eligible a manner.
I
Now, Maria, is it, or is it not, a moot point between you and I, which of us can fermonize the best, with most: propriety, most: truth, justice, c.
. ?-
V
 9
» *
c?? your modesty venture to give up the point? — Ah, Maria! I carry the day for a thousand pounds. Perhaps this is a circumstance your
vanity wont astent to. Believe me, dear
\
girl, were you pretty, demure. Sentimental, Sententious Souls, to be thoroughly inquired into, you would be Sound postess’d of infinitely more Self sufficiency, vanity, c. than ever Sails to the share ps Such madcaps, as
Your sincerely affectionate,
Emily Ravensworth.
P. S. Make much of the signature, perhaps it will be the last time you’ll
9
be entertain’d with it,
%
%
‘, I
THE HISTORY OP
•»
/
f
LETTER LXI
0
Lord Wilton to Sir Robert Boyle.
4
OF one or both of ns, - the time is
come. — Wearied with our con
#
licentious course of life, heav’n ^ has at length. Sir Robert, thought proper to put a flop to our career; and as a further punishment, has determin’d we shall fail by each other’s
hands. You will, no doubt, be afto
_ \
at the different style this bears
to those which you have been us’d to
ft
receive from me: — but vicissitudes of
all kinds, are common in this life; and
* •
we have been too long permitted to run our course, without meeting any; while
others,
»
 1
others, much more deserving, have suffered innumerable hardftiips and misfortunes. Had We been as studious to have done good throughout our lives, as the contrary, how much happier
I
would our reflections, our constitutions,
A
and fortunes, prove at this time! —
but a truce to moralising, to come to
%
the point. — I see your amazement, yet can’t bring myself to explain to you, the Cause of this incoherent method of beginning my letter. — Kitty! — Oh I heav’ns! I can’t go on. — Sorrow, remorse, and Shame, for the vileness of my conduct, which was chiefly owing to your damn’d instigations. So harrow
up my Soul, that it is almost impossible
«
human nature to Sustain the conflict,
✓
%
gz
stict. — Kitty is dead. — My cruelty has kill’d her; and with her, is gone every comfort I had in life. — Oh.bob, what a strange being is man! — always discontented; and when in poiteleon of a real blessing, regardless of its worth: he slights it for shadows, in the purfult of which, he loses the enjoyment of
V
what alone could make him happy. — Wretch that I am, who could not con
A
tent myself with the attainment of my adorable girl, but I must run a wild goofe chase after that vixen Emily. —
* ft
For that piece of service, i’m indebted
'i *
« • •
to you; for which, I shall insist on
ft
satisfaction tomorrow— — heav’n knows, I am but little prepar’d to die: rr nor you either, I fancy; — but the
thoughts
ft
MISS ravensworth. 93
thoughts of life are still more insupportable— — villains we have been!
t
— I in particular, who could, while protected and cherish’d in the most: hospitable and friendly manner, even to the saving of my life, contrive a detestable scheme to bring the grey heirs of two honest old people with sorrow to
ft
the grave, by the ruin of their only and darling daughter. — She too, stnce, fallen a sacrifice thro’ my curs’d barbarity— — is the father and mother’s death reveng’d on her, and the whole on me. — Good God! where shall I hide myself— — ghoscs of all three are perpetually presenting themselves to my wounded imagination, and rack me with tortures, which I would give all
the
M
9
the world to be free from. — How you will behave on the oeeafion, I can’t possibly imagine; tho’ I fuppose, as you have always soar’d above me in wickedness, you likewise do So in resolution. — Oh! Reflection! what a thorn art thou in the breast of a guilty man? -- Little did I think, when I wrote last to you, giving the description of my dis r
appointment with regard to Emily,
\
that the Sat of one of us was so near a termination : ^’twas that event to which I owe the misfortune I am plung’d in at present.
Coming from Sir Thomas b’s, very much in liquor, Kitty ran with all the eagerness of affection to embrace and welcome me home; but my ill suecess
had
% *
*
MISS RAVENSV/ORTH. 95
had so four’d my temper, that Instead of
receiving her gratefully as I ought, I,
savage like, push’d her with violence from
me, and she fell against the corner of a
marble slab, which fractur’d her Ikull in
a terrible manner, and before she could
#
be got to bed brought on a mifearriage, the joint effects of which kiltd her in a few hours. — The dear creature was sensible all the time, and the last words
I
she spoke, vere to invoke a blessing on
ft
me. — Generous girl! — How like an angel she look’d, and with what benignity of
aspect and seeming satisfaction, she reflgn’d herfeif into the arms of the grim tyrant Death. — Such are the comforts of a life spent in innocence — How different I fear would have been my behaviour in
the
THE HISTORY OP
the same sttuation! — The fumes of the
_ »
liquor I had drank now evaporated, and
/
1 came all at once to a perfect knowledge of the shocking scene before me. — * amaz’d and terrified at the thoughts of what I had done — I was going to throw myself on my sword, and immediately put an end to a life, which had always been employ’d to no better purpose, than contriving the ruin of my fellow creatures — But recollecting that the advice and counsel I had receiv’d from you was in effect the chief cause of all; I determin’d either to fall by your hand, and by that means save myself from the crime of
suicide, or to take a glorious revenge of you, as the author of all my misfortunes. — That is the reason of my
/
writing
ft
  gy
writing to you now, and though I might have expressed myself in three lines, yet the diffraction of my mind is such, that I,, still something to say, but unable to connect my ideas, my style is so extremely incoherent that I canst understand it myself; How then should any one elfe? — • However, I deftre you will meet me tomorrow morning, six o’clock, in Flydc ■ Park, and what you canst make out, I will explain to you.
I am yours,
Wilton. '
ft
* »
• ✓
vol. III H
V
gg, THE HISTORY DF
ft ^
LETTER LXH;
?
miss Emily Ravensworth,.
ft
To Mrs., Clayton.
?
•.. t •
I Believe, my dear Maria, you rnight;
with great justice accuse me of levity,, if I was to treat the Sollowing Subject in, my usual ludicrous style; and yet,, the circumstances are So, odd, that it is next
ft
tq, an impossibility tp make it appear, in any other light.
This morning, ^ as I was preparing to leave my room, I was Saluted with a loud knocking at my door, (more like the stroke of, a cyclop’s hammer, than the pawa of an earthly being) accompanied with the Sollowing gentle invitation. — ^
f •
> \
\
MISS ravenswortis. Ag
iion. — For flieame, cousin Emmy, dost mean to lay foacking in bed all day — turn out; and tak a walk, lass— — a rare fine morning. — Lest he should disturb all the family, I open’d the door, '
I
not without being in some concern for the drums of hiy ears^ which, I fear’d,
ft
would suffer a severe attack from the young fquire’s boisterous spirits— — as I was beginning to sue for. compassion, and beg him to be a little more gentle, the bride and bridegroom join’d us, not 3 little to my astonilhment, so early in the morning: I gave them to understand my surprise j he astiir’d me it was at her request; fly, poor modest things fearing later hour might cause a blush, by 3s significant laugh from the family. aix" -
H 2 obedient
a
I
*
ioo
*
obedlent sort of a husband this, Maria S
\
but i’ll lay no Such commands, when I marry. — Tom, who is continually ‘ drawing himself into some scrape or Other, began to pull ire away by force, which Dicky perceiving to be highly disagreeable to me, push’d him with great violence against the door of aunt pat’s room, which, not being very well fasten’d, gave way, and in went the unfortunate squire, neck and heels: — A certain utensil, very common and necessary in a chamber, not being put under the bed, '
#
received his’ head, the thickness of which
I
was too much for it, breaking it all in pieces, and setting the contents flowing round the room. — With one hand, endeavouring to save himself, he' caught the
poor
» ' s • • ••
I
4
I
  loi
poor virgin by the head, pull’d off an enormous nightcap, along with which came a iete, which she constantly wore in the daytime by way of ornament, and at night, I suppose, for, warmth. ‘
«
This occafion’d a dismal yell,. from the old -- --, What shall I, call her? —
Not virgin, Maria, for she had forfeited all pretensions to that, as the succeeding lines will show you. — Dick and I, who had retir’d from the copious effluvia occafion’d by cymon’s fall, now came back, thinking he was going to be rude; but I no sooner enter’d, than I retreated ' again, more precipitately than perhaps I bad ever done in my life: — I had but just time to observe, that Miss Pat was naked, and niy grandfather’s Butler laid
H 3 beside
%

beside her, mot much to her credit. — * This was enough for me r? 1 vanish’d. — • About half an hour afterwards, Dick
A
sound me in the breakfast: parlour, and alk'd me. What was best to be done I I told him, That if it was possible, I could wish to have the affair kept secret from the family, and she Butler turn’d away. He answer’d. That was impossible, for the unhappy Squire, cut to pieces with the utensil his head had broke, vowm revenge on the unhappy culprits;
ft
and that he imagin’d it impracticable to pacisy him, or to give a good account of the maims he had receiv’d, otherwise than by declaring the truth.
He then proceeded to tell me, That on my withdrawing, the Sury of Mrs.
martha’s
*./ w '
a
• ^
MISS ravensworth. 103
, 0
martha’s countenance Could be squall’d by nothing but the rage of, .poor Tom: — who, rismg front the floor, with the blood trickling down his face — caftitig a ghastly look, at a new em broider’d waistcoat, which he had that morning put on for the first time, and was coming to alk my opinion of — ^ but which was now ting’d with several different hues, from the late cataftrophy — burst: out a crying, and the violence of his passion operating strongly at the same time, it was a great while before he could make himself understood.
At length, he blubber’d out a great oath, at old Pat, call’d her an hundred names, saying— — always thought there was a conception between them,
H 4 (meaning
- 4
, 104.
: (meaning a connexion, I suppose) v/hcn • She pray’d So hard for his not being turn’d away for stealing wine — and finally, propos’d their taking him and the lady to the .pump, to cool their constitutions for the Suture. Mrs. Martha and, the man now begg’d hard of Dicky to have mercy on them, and not expose them to the Samily. Which he answer’d, on the man’s part, by kicking him downstairs, and insisting on his giving warning immediately, as he hop’d to preserve his cars: and on the lady’s, by a very Severe
t
reprimand, which brought tears from her; but whether real or hypocritical, wear yet to learn.
By the time he had well stnixti’d this relation, the Samily came down to break
Sast;
%
0
 05
fast; and a little after, enter’d Tom, v.dth a large plaster on his face. — Mrs.
ft #
Martha sent word, she was ill, and ddlr’d to have her breakfast upstairs. —
On the entrance of Cymon, every one who was ignorant of the cause testified great surprise. M grandfather alk’d
'vifct' J, •
him, the reason ^’ “the elegant patch
upon his face: -- -- -- -- Reason, says he,
there’s reason [enuf, Ood knos. — -1
*
always teld you, we should never thrive as long as that aud Jezbul, aunt
Martha, was among us. I wish 4o
> ' *
my soul, the black Ram had really flown away with her, instead of Lord Wilton, and then I should not have fpoil’d my waistcoat. The old man now interrupted

4
io,
*
rupted, and told him. If he could not
/
speak more respectfully of his aunt, especially in his presence, he insifled on his either being Silent, or leaving the house immediately; in which, he was Seconded
by Mrs. Evelyn.
Ah, Says Tom, I wad I had geane a month Sycn, it wad have been a deal better for me. — What a pleaugue, do you talk to me of respect for — : — I always Said, she was an envious old creature, and I Say So still— — I warrant you thout butter wad not melt in her mouth — but I teld you, she had other reasons for keeping Will the Butler, besides his dressing your issues— — me alaine — Sagacioufly shaking his wounded noddle — I can See as Sar into a mill
2, stone,
■■
A
ft
 07
stone, as he that pecks it— — have not my eyes for noutfeeing’s — believingj;
and that i’ve had my belly full ost — Pray God, I may never catch people i’ bed together again, 'i’se sure, i’ve paid dearly for my peeping. Thus would he have run on the whole day, is my grand sathet, who thought him drunk, had, not commanded him to leave the room im
* • ^ ft
mediately.
What, Says he, I suppose, you doant believe me, but ask cousin Richard and Emmy, if I tells a word of a lye — they Saw all as well as me; — ask them if we
ft
did not find our v/ill the Buder, in
, t. 4. ^
bed with aunt Pat, and if I did not cut niy face, and spoil my waistcoat for my. pains.
9
Silent
/
lo
Silent aftonhhment now reign’d
throughout the whole company for the space of five minutes; and I don’t know how long it might have continued, had not Tom, whose appetite is always craving, vociferoufly defir’d. That
Somebody would make tea, and let hirn have his breakfast, for he tasted nothing since last night at Supper. — This awak’d us from our reverie. And novr Dick and I (who had hitherto Sat on tenter hooks) being appeal’d to, were oblig’d to confirm what Cymon had declar’d.
Never did a Set of people look So silly,
1 *
in my opinion, as we all did during breaksast; which, was no Sooner over,. than my grandfather and grandmother
withdrew,
7
ft
  log withdrew, very much concern’d; and left
ft
us to make our comments among each
o
other, Dick and Tom being gone to walk.
Great as is the confidence I have ever plac’d in you, my dear Maria, believe me, this is a piece of secret history you would never have been acquainted with, had it riot been so loudly publish’d by Tom, that I find it impossible to hush up the affair in the manner I could wish.
Will was turn’d away at a minute’s
J
warning. — What my grandfather and grandmother Said to Mrs. Martha, I am yet a Stranger to, as fly has had the modesty to keep her apartment ever since. Mrs. Evelyn, in attempt
I ing
I
4
4
ilo THE HISTORY O F
ing to justify her, is again forbid the house; and thus a train of misfortunes are ever brought on by a vicious inclination; — but I had forgot, — I' am
J
sensible, i’m the worst moralizer in the world; and will, at least, try what' change matrimony may effect, before
I attempt to fermonize. — Adieu, dear
0
Maria; — I feel for my two aunts; — I feel for the unhappy parents. — Believe me, my sensations are too acute
to proceed any further upon the subject, and on no other can I think at present— — Sunday makes me the'
t
wife of Mr. Blanche: — till then, I
am your sincerely affectionate friend,
Emily Ravensworth.
• • I
T
r
t
MISS RAVENSWORTFT. III
, \
LETTER LXIII
Sir Robert Boyle to Lord Wilton..
ft
TAM very glad to find my lord, that in the whole course of your pusillanimous epistle, you have done me even; the justice to own, that you think me. postefs’d of more resolution than your lordstiip. Believe me, it shows you ia so despicable a point of view, that were
■*
it not for reasons which, my own honour oblige me to give, I fiiouldt
not have put myself to the trouble of
/
answering it. '
Is it possible I could ever have con tracted a friendship with a man, who. can act in so dastardly a manner! — ^
wh)v
I
I
112
Why, a booby schoolboy could not have behav’d worse; nor so effectually have got himself defpis’d by his fellows, as in blaming his companion for leading him into the commission of a crime, in order to extenuate his own punishment.
But you, my lord, have descended to still greater meanness; and to varnish over the guilt of being the death of an amiable woman to your own Sickly fancy, accus’d me as the instrument and cause of it, by my damn’d instigations, as you are pleas’d to call them.
Reflection, you Say, is a terrible thorn in the breast of a guilty man. — You Seem to Speak it Seelingl)'', and I believe you; — I should be very Sorry to
give
y
I
V
  iij
•. i •
give you more pain than you seem to labour under at present; but in order
A
to justify myself, must beg of you to
I
have recourse to it once more, and J dare say you will find yourself in a Very great mistake in that respect;
Pray, my lord, when did I ever advise
ft
I
you to behave ill to Kitty? — On the *
contrary, did not I, from the first men tion of your having succeeded in the design you had on her, — ^ persuade yoa' to leave her with her parents, and mind
your affair with Emily? — This might have occafion’d the eirl some few tears;
but could neither have ruin’d her re
* [..
nor broke her father and rao* ther’s heart.
* #
Voft. III • X When
i
0
a
41
When you had let Emily ship through'
*
your fingers, and exprefs’d a desire of getting her again, did npt I feiza the first opportunity of laying a plan for it; and in order to effect; it, introduce her to my intended, by which means
I
the hopes of retrieving my shatter’d fortune, was entirely ruin’d? — And was
it not for this purpose, I sent people
to assist you in regaining her? — And
) »
yet you can basely accuse me of being the cause of all your misfortunes, when I was only meaning, like a true friend, to gain you every wish of your heart.
don’t think I mention all these things by way of evading the appointment you made in your letter: — No, Charles;
— you have behav’d infinitely too childish
and
: *
$
\
«
 15 and uno rateful, to make me fear meet
P ^
ing you, when, and where you please. As I told you before, it is partly to juftisy myself, — but chiefly to inform you, that I canst possibly comply with your request tomorrow morning, for ■
many reasons; the principal of which, is an engagement made prior to the receipt of yours — with a female, upon honour, my lord; nothing elfe should, on any account, have hinder’d me from attending you. — But when a lady’s in the cafe, you know all other things must: fall before her. Besides, fhe’s not one of your icy madams, tho’, “fair as painting can express, or youthful poets fancy, when they love.”
1 2 don’t
ii. THE HISTORY OP
don’t you think I may reasonably expect: better entertainment from such a iijeeting, than cooling my fingers
■ S' •
.ft
in Hyde Park, at so unsafhionable an hpur? — And then, as you Seem to be of opinion, we are neither of us in a proper, state of mind to look Death in the Sace, I think a day or two’s res pite, must be of infinite Service to us both.
Your lordship may, in that time, perhaps, appease the naughty ghosts 'that trouble you; by the promise of Soon Sacrificing to their manes, the wretch who has been the cause of their, and your hard Sat. — This, I think, canst ■fi‘iil of pleasing them : — Even hamlet’s father, who was one of the most rev

5 vengeful
»
ft m
 17
Vengeful ghosts I ever heard of, was content with his fon’s promise of revenging him on his enemies, and quietly' retir’d to his resting place. — And Surely,
is the proud Spirit of a King was So
<
easily Satisfied, a poor .country Sarmerst can’t, in rcason, desire more.
I
Pray expostulate a little with him,
r
the next time he Comes, and affure him,
# * • ^
m
that a discontinuance of his vistts will
I
be more agfeeable. — You may be certain, that the iliadow of a man, : whose
Substance was always afraid ofvyou,
1: * ^
will not fail to obey your commands.
«
— He will, of course, take away his rib : — • And then with regard to Kitty, you have always represented her so milis
4
and docile, that you cannot reasonably
1 2 have
%# £ • • r V
ft
ii
have much to fear from the sight of
«
her, or much trouble in getting quit of it.
As to myself, you may depend upon it, if I happen to die first. i’ll never trouble you with my presence;; you may make yourself easy on that head; — and thus you will be freed from all apprehensions of ghosts and goblins, for the remainder of your days.
You see, notwithstanding your ill usage, I can’t help acting as your friend :
and that you may not have the least cause to complain, I will meet you tomorrow fe’nnight, at your own time and place, as specified in your letter. — In the meanwhile, if you find your aerial friends obstreperous, I would advise you to waw
^11
  ti,
all kind of ceremony with them, and since they won’t listen to reason, give pofitlve orders to your chaplain, to lay them in the Red sea,
I am,
t
Your lordihip's most obedient,
Robert boyife,
ft
I
• ‘ • I •
t
'H
f ♦
• 1 • • / ^
A 9
I
ft
• / 1 ^
• i
V.
^ A
A • - • •
Ift
ft *
...
* - '
T •
320
’ ' ' ' f
r • ^
«
LETTER. LXIV
ft
Mrs. Blanche to Mrs. Clayton.
» »
it length, my dear Maria, it is ^ all over; and your giddy Emily
%
is entered into that sober dreaded state of
liiatrimony. And yet, to let your gravity
)
into the true state of affairs, do you Snow, I don’t find the least degree of propensity for fermonizing, more than I did a month ago.
I
Fain would I have been excus’d keep
I
ing my promise to the Fright, of going to church with him on a Sunday; — urg’d, how unfashionable it was to be seen there on that day. — But nothing
would avail me. * — > The wretch inststed — »
• *
', • I
ABSO«^
-- -
 21
ABSOLUTELY INSISTED! Oil my per
• «
of the treaty. Grandmama
i. ’
seconded him; and in order to complete
ft
all, mailer Thomas whose liking to
«
plum cake seems not in the least abated,
► t
ft
ft
seriously recommended it to me to take
T ’ '. T
their advice; asturing me, that he would, if he was in my place; and giving me his word of honour (with a significant thump on his breast, by way of giving more energy to what he said) that both Mrs
V
(Crosby and his coustn richard’s wise,
r »
look’d ten degrees better since they vrere married. — No bad hint that, Maria, —
I assure you, when the squire began his
te
oration, I did not expect: he would have
Lid anything that could have weigh’d so
much
ft
ft
# •
* 0.
(112
niuch wdth me, or I Should have stopped his
i
/
mouth.
I was, at length, forc’d to go; though Bad it not been for one circumstance, master Neddy would not, perhaps, have been a married man so soon as he expected. — But in the morning, while they were equipping me for the ceremony, and I was debating within myself whether Or no I should disappoint them all — in comes my good grandmother — - read me a lelton of morality about two hours long. — When fearing it might continue another half hour, a circumstance I could inot possibly have survived— — started tip, vow’d Matrimony was not half so Wd, and that rather than listen to it
'O. any
\
ft
9
 23l
any longer, I would go to church that minute.
I have fmce thought, upon reflection, that this was a plot upon me; and if
t
they had given me time to deliberate on their proceedings, I should certainly have led them a dance they did not expect. — But they too well knew my disposition; and as a proof of their superior generalship, took me whilst: in the humour,
whipped me into the coach, and before I knew where I was, the rofy fac’d fon of Moses, had begun the frightful ceremony; which was no sooner over, than plum cake and dancing employ’d the general attention, to the great satisfaction of Cymon, whose spirits were amazingly exhilarated, by the acquisition of a very
• ft
handsomest


•■4 ' \ ' <4 V
handsome embroider’d waistcoat, which I.
had sent to London for, in order to
.1
comnerisate for that, which I had in
.ft - ^ '
great measure been the cause of Spoiling. ■ My grandsather intends to pack him
off upon his travels in a Short time, in Drder to try is he can be more polish’d ^ by the air of Soreign countries; especially as we, very timely; discover’d, ' there vasa treaty of marriage on foot
between him and one of the maid
-
. •. ■ • r •
Servants,
f :
This Scheme, I belieye, he is pretty well sham’d out of; and I expect to See Jiim return from his tour, as accomplish’d
i ■ I • •
a fine gentleman, as most of those who lay claim to that character at present: —
that is to Say, he’ll learn to despise his
own
# ^ • < ft ft
  t
own country,, and come home with a perfect knowledge of paints, patches embroidery, (for which he had always a great liking) laces, c. don’t you think, Maria, it would be quite as eligible, and much more frugal, to put our youngsters of fortune and family, apprentices to milliners and lacemen, and by that means, keep the money which they idly squander away abroad, in this, kingdom. — It would certainly be of infinite advantage; and if I was a Member cf the House of Commons, I would bring in a bill for that purpose.
Miss Martha, my grandfather has promis’d an annuity of fifty pounds, desiring never more to See her face. — She is gone to Mrs. evelyn’s, whose
firhilitude
/
: t2
t
ffimilitude of fate and disposition, render her the fittest companion for the old single woman, that could possibly be thought on.
Yesterday we went in a large body to the father of Miss Danvers, with whom we at last adjusted matters so well, that he receiv’d her again with joy; and a young gentleman who was there, and it seems had formerly been an admirer, exprefs’d so much pleasure in her being restor’d, that I sincerely hope, he will renew his addrestes, and that the remainder of her days will, be spent with uninterrupted happiness. I will not repeat the circumstances of the meeting : — It is more in the penserosa style, than I chuse to give way to at
present. —
 27
present— — all filed tears, but they were tears of joy and satisfaction, and in the evening parted with mutual assurances stove and friendship.
Lord, Maria, what silly creatures theso men are! — Why I could perceive as
ft
4
clearly as possible, that old Danvers was amazingly delighted, with the sight of his restor’d daughter, and yet I dare say his pride would sooner have fuster’d the loso of her, till the day of his death, than condescended to make the least inquiry after her, — But I always said, these imaginary lords of the creation, were mere babies, and i’m determin’d to have a pair of leading strings always ready for my mate; that whenever I see him the least inclinable to go astray, I may. pin
them
izn
!
them on, and fet little master right again.
\
Oh! here comes master Neddy, I know his step — not lord and master, Maria, T positively allow of no such expression. What bustnefs has he to come after mc, I wonder? — 1 declare, is his errand does not appear to me extremely rational. i’ll take off my garters, and lead him back to the company. — A respectful tap at my door, modest enough. — i’m afraid, the young man won’t give me an opportunity of exercising my new mode of government. — But I had forgot, he II waiting at the door. — Well, come in; — — Poor soul, is sent in the names of all the good people below, to destre my
company
 29
company for a walk. — I must attend them.
Mr. and Mrs. Crosby leave us, in a
ft
few days. — He is oblig’d to join his regiment, and she accompanies him, Mr. and Mrs. Ravensworth, junior,, are going to spend some days at Mrs. danby’s. — As for my turtle and me, our good people will by no means part with us, — Blanche, who to do him justice, is as decently good natur’d as can reasonably be expected, with pleasure astents to whatever is most agreeable
ft
to me.
I wilh, Maria, you could contrive to come and pafs a few weeks with us, Do, dear girl, come, and by your presence make up to me for the loss of vol. Ill, K those
I
130
those amiable friends, who are so soon going to leave us. — Blanche desires it too. — As he is here, I’H make him tell you so himself— — Neddy, use my pen well, or take the consequences. rh return and conclude in a few minutes,
Mr. Blanche writes.
You see, my dear Mrs. Clayton, the injunction laid upon me by your lively friend. — Need I tell you, that it being the wish of her heart to see you, makes it so much mine, that I scarce
know anything in the world, I would.
»
not do to accompllfh it. Do, dear madam, comply with our request;; as I know how hard it must be to part with so amiable a wife, pray make my best
respects
  ijl
respects to Mr. Clayton, and assure him, I Shall not only be very glad to see him, but will use every means in my power to make his time pafs agreeably.
Here comes the dear girl. I w"!!! deliver the pen into her hands, hoping our joint efforts to bring you among us,
I
will have the wifli’d for effect.
Mrs. Blanche in continuation.
Oh lord, Maria! it’s well I came as I did, or I actually believe the fright Would have made love to you, in a little time. — I hope you won’t believe what he says, about your being an amiable wife. — I affure you it’s no such thing; and i’ll lay a wager, clayton’s of my pinion.
ft
ftji
ft
I positively won’t trust my swain to write for me to any of my female correspondents, but my grandmother, when we leave her; there can she no danger there. If the honeymoon was over, I
I
should be strongly tempted to try my leading firings for this offence; but as it is not, and I was partly accessary to it, I think I must forgive him.
You can’t think of refusing him tho’.; and if Clayton does not either bring or send you, I shall insist on satisfaction
9
myself. I am interrupted. — They want me to walk. — I must go, or I shall have them all in my closet, to avoid which I am oblig’d to conclude myself— — —
sincerely affectionate
ft
^ Emily Ravens -- -- -- -- -- -
ft
^ Oh

Oh shocking! Maria, I have no right to sign that name now, thoi^h I think it much handsomer than the other word of one syllable— — I must submit, and therefore hope you will pay as much respect to
Emily Blanche,
I
0
A
h
$
t
/
ft
I
V N
KS
•' - THE HISTORY Of
"f
0
I
y
LETTER LXV
Mrs. Clayton to Mrs. Blanche,
S jermit me, my dear lively friend, * “■ to congratulate you on your present ^appy change of condition. — Happy let me call it — since a single life, to a mind sensible and Sentimental as yours Is, can never afford true Satisfaction. In the arms of an indulgent husband, you find a sanctuary— — pleasing asylum, from every care and danger that may surround you. In your children, (if you have
any) you find a continual and delightful fund of entertainment. But I beg pardon, you have rallied me sufficiently already
fop
 3^
for moralising, and I will not again lay myself open to your Satire.
I am infinitely flatter’d, in the desire my Sweet girl testifies to have me with her. — To prove that my wishes to that end keep pace with yours, I have at length obtain’d leave of Mr. Clayton, to Spend a month with you — In a Sew days you may expect me. Mrs.
Sandham is married to Mr. Oakham. He has introduc’d her to his friends, who receiv’d her kindly; and persuaded them to go to France Sora Sew months, till the first noise of the affair is subsided. They came to take leave of me — and I believe Set off last night.
I suppose, you have heard that Lord
Wilton has kill’d Sir Robert Boyle
K 4 in
ft
136   ’
in a duel, and is gone off to the continent. — How durft two men, so very impious, run the risque of rushing at once into eternity, and appearing before their Maker with all their sins about them? — Th is, perhaps, you will call fermonizing; but I don’t see how a thinking mind can avoid making these, reflections.
I am sincerely rejoic’d to hear, that
\
Mr. Danvers has again receiv’d his'
daughter. — I wish Mr. Sfagrove would as readily forgive his, for a much (lighter crime — driven to it too by his own ill usage. I wonder what materials compose the hearts of parents — of such, I mean, as the person in question— — we have an example in yours, that there is still
some
* >

 37
some virtue extant. Be patient, dear Emily, — a truce with your remarks. — i’ve done, at least, in the moral strain.
I hope, cousin Tommy won’t have left you before I come down. I long to see him again — for notwithstanding his rustic behaviour, there is an honesty of heart, and goodness of disposition abopt him, which pleases me extremely. — I alture you, he is a great favourite of mine. I can, perhaps, favour you with an anecdote of him, which you are not acquainted with, and which came to my knowledge but yefterdav.
You may remember, he was sometime in London before you came. — A gentleman whom I was in company with, happen’d to mention a phenomenon of a
country
%
I
.138
country squire, whom he met with one day at a coffeehouse, and who drew his attention, and that of all the company,
by a dispute he had with the waiter.
\
It seems he had been there the day before, and had heard a gentleman call for some capilld.tre; his curiosity being great to taste it, he call’d for a glass of the Same, which he lik’d prodigiously, it Seems. And the day following, having a mind for Some more, he Sent and call’d for it, as he thought, but unfortunately mistook the name, and aflt’d Sora glass of cappadocia.the waiter did not understand, and told him they never ibid any; which the young Squire thinking a lye —. seiz’d him by the collar, and.
insifted
\
  t39
■'infilled on his bringing him a glass immediately, or he wad curry his hoide.
I
The poor trembling Sellow now
9
appeal’d to the company, Whether they Sold any Such thing? To which being answer’d in the negative, Tom (for it was he) stamping with rage, wonder’d the D.., 1 did not fly away with London, when Solks wad Swear one another down in that manner. — Why, Says he, as Sure as I’se alive, I got a glass here yesterday, t ^
The waiter, now recollecting him, unravell’d this (to him) almost Satal
mistake, and told him it was Capillalre. — The Squire damn’d him for not finding it out Sooner, Saying, Cappadocia and capilld.tre, were all the Same, and order’d
him,
140
1
him to fetch it. The company were all highly entertain’d by this mistake, and one of them choosing to be very clever, attempted to play upon Tom; who perceiving he was making fun with him, without any kind of
ceremony, hit the punster a blow in the face, at the same time stripping to light it out; and he would certainly have come off with the worst, if a gentleman had not interfer’d and made it up.
He took the squire astde, and begg’d
to know his name. — To which he
• \
was answer’d, — Why, as you Seem an honest koind of a man — i’s tell you. — My neame is Ravensworth — I lives in Yorkshire, at M.. Hall,
and
t
 41
and if ever you come by feather’s, I fall always be glad to see you; at present, I Sancy it’s dinner time — and So your Servant. — The gentleman who told me this, took him off So well, that I was
certain it was him, besore he mention’d his
«
name — and he assur’d me, if it had not been for his interpolltion. Master Tommy would have had a challenge the
next day. — How he would have behav’d on the occaston I can’t tell— — very glad he was not put to the trial.
Mr. Clayton destres his compliments to you, and Mr. Blanche, and is sorry he can’t accept the invitation of coming with me, being oblig’d to go out of town, on particular business. Adieu, my Emily — I am impatient to be with
you —
142 THE HISTORY, c.
you — a few days will give me that Satisfaction, till which time ‘ I conclude myself
•*
* affectionate friend,
V Maria Clayton
ft
J
4 * •
s. — '
The Conclujlon of this
\
Epistolary Correspondence,
3
/
0 ft.
ft
m
ADDRESS
«
. I — — II I! ■! — iinw^fti ■iiii^ I i, II
ft
ADDRESS
T O T H E
\
READER.
«
%
#
If I lash vice in general fiction,
f
is’t I apply, or self conviction?
Thus void of all offence I write;
Who claims the fable, knows his right,
X EIN G entirely devoid of all poetical talents myself, I have ventured to borrow these few lines from the inimitable Gay, as thinking them entirely adapted to the preceding novel. As I know I have:
3 ttiany
X
144 ADDRESS
0
many friends in the world, especially in Yorkjhire, I doubt not but some will say, they wish I had been as perfectly convinced of my want of genius, for prosaic writings. — To such friends I am
MUCH OBLIGED, and Can afliire them, that
neither any particular passion for scribbling, or any very great opinion of my
own abilities in the literary way, led me
%
into the error; but some family reasons, which it is neither requisite or convenient at present to declare, were my chief inducements for publilhlng the Old Maid.
I hope that part of my family, to whom
\
I have been the most obliged, will favour me by a perusal of it, and if an unmarried aunt of mine, famous for the ingenuity she has difcover’d in her unwearied pains
to
»
TO THE READER. 145
to do me service, should find anything in it, suited to her unquejuon’d genius and extensive knowledge. Proud of so distinct

guiihing a mark, to prove the merit of
A
this work, I shall defy the malice of petty critics, convinced at least that my aim is partly answer’d — If an uncle of mine too, whose underjlanding soars above the common class of mortals, should approve the character of Cousin Tommy, it will afford me infinite pleasure. If Mr. Skinn likes the character of Mr. Sandham,
and thinks it at all applicable to any of
«
his friends, he has my full permission to present them with the portrait, together with my compliments; but at the same time, must beg leave to make one more quotation from Gay.
vol. Ill, L I vent
. ' \
J
146 ADDRESS
I vent no flander, owe no grudge.
Nor of another’s conscience judge;
At him or her, I take no aim,
Yet dare against all vice declaim.
This is my plan, if there are such characters exiftinor, as some of those I have drawn (which it is most devoutly to be wished there may not) the fault does not lay with me. — In cafe there should happen, to be bad people in the world; and they will find any similitude between themselves, and the fictitious personages, who make their appearance in my novel, I am sorry for it, and can only say stis their consciences that apply, and not the authoress, who disclaims any intention of
ft
hinting at particular people, — Lest anybody should puzzle themselves to no
purpose,
I
TO THE READER.
piirpofe, in order to find out which character, I have defign’d for myself; I can put them out of pain at once, by afliiring them, that I have not introduced any such person, throughout the whole course of this novel. A character so perfectly original, I reserve for some future occasion; the public may, one day or other, see me make a very considerable figure, as the heroine of a romance or novel, and they may depend upon it, I shall not spare Mrs. Skinn, any more than I would another, whose true portrait I meant to exhibit to public view: this will I dare say prove perfectly agreeable, as the tongue of envy and malice, have been very inveterate against me already, and only wanted genius for invention
L 2 and
IS ADDRESS
%
and elocution, to do me every kind of prejudice; however, I accept the will for the deed, and am ready, if they choose it, to lend them any assistance to take the foregoing work to pieces. I dare believe I can find as many faults in it, as any one elfe, but must observe that some. of the passages, being taken from real facts, would admit of no alteration, and with regard to the rest, as I have an ' utter aversion to giving myself any kind of trouble, I left the revising and criticising of my book to those who are
/
fonder of such employments thanlam — • and the more faults they can find out, the more I think they are obliged to me; for allowing them full scope, to display their abilities. for satire— — this way I 2 fancy
TO THE READER. 14^-
fancy I Hand but little chance of being attacked. — Scurrility I often see, but a
ft
true satiric genius is as rarely poiselted as are good nature and benevolence; two words that we might very well explode from the dictionary, since they are so seldom made use of in their proper sense. The man who will slick the longest to his bottle, to the detriment of his own health and constitution;; the peace of a vise, who perhaps has not been married long enough to wish him dead j is the belt natured honest fellow in the world. — A lady who makes it her
%
business to go into a dozen different companies, during the course of one day, picks up all the common place chit-chat of the town, and retails it with alterations
L 3 and
150 ADDRESS
and additions of her own railing, nof, only at all her acquaintance, but at people whom perhaps She never Saw in her lise; is generally termed a good-natured agreeable creature. Surely words So expressive of Something amiable, were never design’d to be So cruelly perverted; but I should have remember’d, that I am actually the worst moralizer in the world; this is a piece of history, which I suppose I might have Spared mysels the trouble of communicating, as Some good-natured person could have made the remark,
t
without any hint of that kind from me, and with more justice than they imagine.
ft
Since I might have had recourse to borrowing again, and made use of the Sollowing lines, much more expressive
than
TO THE READER. 15*
than any ideas my fertile invention could suggest.
There is a lull in man no charm can tame. Of loudly publishing his neighbour’s shame On eagle’s wings, immortal scandals fly, While virtuous notions are but born and die. That is the reason, I suppose, why so few people choose to be troubled with so useless a companion as virtue: I don’t know a word in the English dictionary,
4
which has so extensive a meaning, nor one that is less understood, I once in my life knew an amiable woman, and I have endeavour’d to draw the character of Mrs.
ft ^
Clayton from such an original as
near as possible. As for the men, I have endeavoured to make some of them
tolerably decent in my book, for the sake
L 4 f
- •
'ADDRESS
"S
of variety, and as it is a form generally used in writing novels; but I mull confess, they are entirely the children of my own brain; as I could not find one original to copy by. I dare say I shall
procure a number of male friends, by this
\
declaration, a circumstance that will please me infinitely, as I have so good an opinion of their sex in general. But in short, there is no arguing against matters of fact, and I ■wdll venture to believe, that those, who have any consciences at all, will acquit me of all slanderous accusations against their imaginary lordships. Perhaps some critic, that wants to
s
be more ingenious than common, will give a significant sheer, and say the authoress is some ugly old woman, who
has
TO THE READER. 153
I
has been deserted by the men these twenty years at least; and now has no other employment, than to rail against them: but this happens to be a mistake every way, for, to the utter confusion of any pretty gentleman, who may think proper to make such a remark, neither my age or person, at this present tiny, can make good his supposition; and if every woman was of my mind, stie would have infinitely more pretence for railing, in cafe stie was much favour’d with their
/
presence, than by any neglect: they could possibly stiew her. Thus have I laid myself open to the pens of all those that know how to hold one, and shall conclude by saying, that if any one should happen to write anything at all clever against the
Old
ft
0
s
%
154 IR E S S, cold
Maid, I’H freely forgive them, for the sake of the novelty, as we so seldom see a good criticism, that I am sure it must be highly entertaining. In such a cafe, I shall think it worth my while once more to resume my pen, till thqn remain my Readers,
#
• Very obedient and devoted
humble servant,
A. Skinn.
ft
ft
-*■

I
4 • \
ft
I
\
In the Press, and speedily 'Will he piiblijhed,
Handsomely printed in Four Pocket Volumes, Price los. sewed,
THE
HISTORY
O F
Sir William Harrington:
\
Written some Years since.
And revised and corrected by the late
Mr. RICHARDSON,
Author of Sir Charles Grandison, Clarijfa, sac.
Now first published.
“OS Solly studious, ev’n of vices vain,
V Ah! vices gilded by the rich and gay.”
Shenjionfs Elegies.
London, printed for John Bell, at his Circulating Library, near Exeter exchange, in the Strand; ' and C Etherington, at York.
Part of the editor’s Preface.
I think it necessary to the satissaction f every critical reader, to affure them, the
reputable
r
BOOKS lately printed for,
reputable assertion in the title-page, viz. That Mr. Richardson revised these letters,
A
is truth on ray own knowledge. We both had an intimacy of some years with the writer, and he paid this claim of friendship a short time before his death. The work has been very lately entrusted to my care, to usher into the world. I make no apology for So doing: what that excellent author thought worthy his attention, cannot be undeserving that of
. *
she public,
»
\
ft
e
J. Bell and C Etherington*
This Day was published,
(Price Five Shillings and threepence in
Boards)
The FIRST NOLUME
Of an entire new and useful Work,
Dedicated to His Grace the Duke of
Northumberland,
Calculated for the Advantage and inllruc tion of the Botanist, the Country Gentleman, the Nurseryman, and Gardener,
illustrated with copperplates, and a
copious Botanical gloitary,.
THE
UNIVERSAL BOTANIST
AND
NURSERYMAN.
Containing descriptions of the Species and varieties of all the trees, shrubs, herbs, flowers, and fruits, natives and exotics, at present cultivated in the European nurseries, green houfes, and Stoves, or
described
R O O Kl S lately printed for
described by modern botanists;; according to the linn^san system, with their names in Englifti.
To which are added,
Catalogues of.the flowers raised by the
most eminent florifts in Europe; with their names, colours, and prices, translated into English;; well as a list of the most esteemed fruits; particularly those raised in the nursery of the Carthufians in Paris.
The whole to be completed in Four
Volumes.
By RICHARD WESTON, Esq.
Hie vir perpetuum, atque alienis menfibus aejiaf.. virg.
Printed for John Bell, near Exeter exchange, in the Strand; G. Riley, in Queen street, Berkley square; J. whe ble, in pater nofter row; and C Etherington, at York.
The Second, Third, and Fourth Volumes are in the press, and will be published by Christmas next.
%
%
J. Bell and C etheringtojt.
This Day were published,
(Price Two Shillings and sixpence sewed. Dedicated by Permission to the Right Hon,
Wills, Earl of Hillfborough,
THE
Natural and Chemical Elements
O F
AGRICULTURE.
Translated from the Latin of Count Gujiavus Adolphus Gyllenborg.
By JOHN MILLS, Esq. F. R. S.
Member of the Royal Societies of Agriculture at Paris and Rouen, of theoeco nomical Society of Berne, and of the Palatine Academy of Sciences and Belles Letters.
jkon eft satis ajlimare, parens melior hominl, an trijiior noverca fuerit natura.
Plin, L VII Prsef.
Printed for J. Bell, near Exeter exchange, in the Strand; and C Etherington, at York.
Whoever calls an eye on the contents of this work, will see that our noble
author
%
'BOORS lately printed fof
author has considered his subject: in every
>
different light, in which a thorough knowledge of chemistry could enable him to view it: and, though reasoning without
experiments is seldom of much use in
N
practical arts, yet reason, founded on real science, and derived from former experiments, may often enable an ingenious hufoandman to draw useful conclusions, even from unfuccessful experiments. In this respect, we doubt not, but that the foregoing work may be of great utility. Foreign nations have expressed their ap
V
probation of it, by translating it into their languages; and we hope it will not be less reliihed here, where every improvement in agriculture meets with the kindest ception. j
* ’4.
'4
i
