
 
yvjt Fuh/ip*iy. m iiavo Fociet Volumes very proper for all vujoo vuoua Read or Write Foems with judg- -- \ being the beji Woik of this Nature hitherto Extant.
R. gildon’s Complete Art of P o E T R V In Six Parts. ^
I. Of the Nature, use, Excellence, Rise and Progress of Poetry, stpc,
II Of the Use and Necessity of Rules in Poetry.
III Of the Manner, Rules, and Art of com possng Epigrams, Passorals, Odes, Qpc.
TV. Of Tragedy and Comedy; how to draw the Plot, and form the chara£lers of both.
V The Rules of the Epic or Narrative Poem,. Of the Poetic distion or Language, and of eng liih Numbers.
VI A coilestion of the moss beautiful Descriptions, Similes, Allussons, r, from Spenser, and our bess Enghfo Poets, as well Ancient as Modern; with above Ten Thousand Verses, not to befoani in any Performance of this Kind. Shakefpeariana; or the moss beautiful Topics, descriptions, and Similes that occur throughout all Shakefpears Plays.
Why is He honour d ‘ivith a poet’s Narne,
Who neither know ws., ?or <ivou’d observe a Rule?
k ofcom.
Printed for Charles rifmgton., at the Bible and Croven in St. p<r«/’s Churchyard. 1719. Price 6 s.
I
%
9
V V j V'T i ■‘■c ^ ^ i ^ ‘7
"• h' ' H F Vt /u' h ri ■ '
i d h '■ ' "
P O S T M A N
Robb'dofhh MAIL:
OR, THE
#
\
BEING
A Collection gs M is C « L L A N E o u s
LETTERS, Serious and Comical,
Amorous and Gallant.
•)
Amongss which are, tbez
LOVER’S SIGHS:
»
O R,
The AMOURS of the Beautiful S t r e
munia and Alrhonso the wise, King
of cajhle, and Aragon and Earl of Provence;
with her Pajjionate LETTERS to the King on his choosing another Mistress.
In Five B O O K f.
By the best Wits of, the present Age.
ho77don : Printed for A. Bettes wo rth, at the Red Lion, in fater nojier ro^iu; and C R i VI n g tonne, at the bikje and c)'o ivn in St. paups Churchyard. MDCCXIX. Pricers.
9
I
m
• «

/
*
/
%
\
«
> •
'*
i
4
‘ j
fc, L
■ 1 '■
■ %vr
s
I ♦
r.
., T ^

t
r'
«.
'■ ^ :
V :
%
t
.ff
-«
«
'• ' .*>
^ V
^- ■ • • • -^ •■' A -^ - ^ '
'>V„: .: ■:.
''■''kzv j^y
T H E
Epistle De (It calory.
f
*
T O
0
Sir Samuel Garth.
V
«
SI V
nwith Some Satisfaction lay hold cf
this Opportunity,
of paying my publie
Acknowledgments to You,
a" 3 for.
VI Epistle Dedicatory.
for a long Series of Favours and valuable Services, which I have perpetually deriv’d from You: Fortune con’d never be So malicious, but 1 found a Pvemedy tor her Malice, from Sir Samuel gartps Humanity and Friendship.
If Wishes were of, any Force, I shou’d wish never to be oblig’d at all j but if that
imist be, niy next wish woiscl
be, to be only oblig’d to Men of scnsl% and that I might have the pleaflire of ownino; the Obiie, adons re ceiv a. I thank my Stars, this I have obtain’d through all my Misfortunes, that I am indebted. to. none of the meanest
Eptjtle Dedicatory, VII
est of Mankind for any Be.
¥
nesit.
Here I Shoifd according; to
(LO
Custom launch out into the Praises of the Patron I have chosen, and surprise the World with Such Virtues in him, which no Body elfe con’d.
'a
ever discover. Bat my Choice
is better, and feciires me not
only from Flattery, but the
very Imputation of it; for
your Name includes all that
is worthy of Esteem, and when
¥ '
the Reader sees my Book dedicated to Sir Samuel Garths he knows “it is to a Person that has all the Merits of a meat Phviician and Poet, and a C ocd Man, who is daily giving
A 4 Proofe
*
V
VIII Eptjtle Dedicatory.
Proofs of his Philanthropy; and that he has scarce an Acquaintance, who is not a Witness
of his Humanity, as well
¥ '
as Wit and Learning.
Having therefore no Room for the Panegyrics of the Times, I shall no longer detain cither
Co
You or the Reader. But de siring you to accept this pre feiit that I make you, as a tef timony of my Gratitude, I Subscribe myself,
9
I
Tour obliged Friend and bumble Servant.
'0
Sir Roger de whimsey’s
PREFACE.
Gentle Reader
0o R So I hope to find they
But whether gentle or unger tie, I have a few Words to Say to thee, before thou dost proceed to the perusal of my Book; first, because it is the Mode, and who wou’d be out of Fashion, when he may So easily avoid it, as at the Expense only of a little perishable Paper? Next, that I may pre engage thy good wih, cr at least remove ail Prejudice which iisual ly attends an unknown Author.
A Man of Name may write what he pleases, and abuse you is you do not like it as well as himself; but from a Stranger to Farae, you will not take Such Treat
nieiit,.
* i
A
X PREFACE.
menti shall theresore bring you acquainted with my person, and my Parts, and that being done, I Shall use you as familiarly, as if we were old Acquaintance.

As to my Family, you will find enough of that in the introdueiion; So I shall only be particular in what regards myself, and that Branch of it from wherxe I derive my Being. i
You must know therefore, that we are very longtevous, that is, we live a great while; for these many Generations there has Scarce died one of us on this fide of one hundred Years; my Grandfather imd to O northeast Hundred and Thirty; my Father indeed died, as I may call it, a young Man, not having exceeded fourscore and Five; but that was the Estect of his dealing with the Doctors, a Folly I have therefore caresully avoided. - My Mother is yet alive, and having already taken a Walk in this Vale of Mortality one Hundred Years, Seems resolvm on Fother Turn for a Second Century. I am now about Seventy Six, a Widower, and have been So these twenty Years past; I have two Sons and never a Daughter, I thank my Stars, for the Female De hvhitnfeys have generally had but indisterent Luck in
the World. Fi
*
H K b r ic L XI
t
In the Room of a wise, I have a very good old Woman for my hoiise keeper, who has many iisesul Qtialities; but chiessy she has a profound Skill in curing broken Shins, Faces or Elbows, from whence I have Sound great Benefit; for it has been always a Malady of our Family, that the Master of it, besore he goes to Bed, is troubled with a Sort of Titubation, wdiich is frequently the cause of Some Contusions, as well as Some Crudities the next Morning, againil: both of which my housekeeper is ready with an agreeable and proper Medicine; a Tankard of good brown Ale, and a Toast and Nutmeg, with a nice of the best cheese, is my general Recipe; Sometimes she diverfistes it with a glass of Sack, Sori abominate a Dram; it is like ill Advice, it may please indeed, but always draws on an evil Con seq lienee.
I get up with the Sun, take the Air in the Fields, either on my Pad, or on Foot, then returning to my Chamber, 1 divert myself with an Author till dinner time,
Bat of all Authors, I love Such as entertain my Fancy, leaving the crabbed Tracts oi: philosopiiv and Divinity to them who have more Time on their Hands than I have, and more Patience too.
At
XII preface.
At Dinner i"eat heartily, and'is Friends come in, I take a chirping Bottle; and then pursue what Sports are in season, till the dusky Hour Summons us to a Mug of 0bober or Marchy till my old Woman puts me in Mind that it is Time to withdraw to Bed, where I Sleep without Dreams, till my nsiial Hour of riling; and this is ray course of Life, as a Country Gentleman.
I come new to my cjualifications as a Vdidteryou will rot find in my Study many dc’/zn; 1 xhink^ bthd.es Don Qttixetej I have none but our English Poets. I deal all in Abridgments, and other brachilo quifis : ■ In Histoi'}^, 'Jafiinj Lticiptt Storm, Valeri Hi Maydmm, qerra'ntt, Nepos Vclleim paterculm^ Eutrepimy and the like. In other Matters, I 'chufie shch as are not longwinded: : yocr Effayifis^ finch as Mon
taigriy La Bruyere Rochefoucault, among the
Eyench; that is, as we have them tranfia ted. Pehhanis refokes, my Lord baccvs ejfays, thofie ofi Sir v^illiam Lempk, and Some others of the Englijl}. I cannot omit Fontinelky wlio has fiurniih'’d my Study with two valuable Pieces, Phe Hifiory of Oracles, and Lhe Plurality of Worlds. Mr. Vandale, a Learned dutch man, writ a voluminous Book to prove, that the Oracles of the
Heap
K L r A C tm xai
Heathens were not deliver’d by the Devil, but the Priefis. Mr. Fontinelk, liking the Design, and approving the Arguments, brings all into a little Pocket Volume, and yet leaves the Point beyond a Reply, which was as much as Vandale cotsd do in his larger Work. Phe Plurality of Worlds is another Proof of the admirable address of this Author; for in a very Small compass he lets his Reader into the three Systems of Astronomy So plainly, and with So much easc, that a Lad may be a Judge of them for my part, who have no biistness with the Planets and Stars further than my a musement, I have never given myself the Trouble of any further Inquiry about them. The Paradoxes of Cicero, the epis tles of Seneca, the Satyrs and Epistles of Horace, the Dialogues of Lucian, and the rest of the Ancients, who have given us agreeable Things in short discourfes.
Yet this mighty Inclination of mine to this short Sort of Writing, never made me fond ot Martial; nay, I have often blam’d the Method of our common Schools for reading him to our very Boys, because he debauches their Taste of Poetry, and makes themiever after relish nothing but such bag gatelks as Points in all manner of Poetry.
This
1
XIV PREFACE.
This being my Taste of Authors ancient : and modern, thou wilt not, gentle Reader, be furprizm, that when I write myself, I Xpin not out my Matter in Length, or that I chuse Subjects that may be kept within the narrow Bounds of a Letter : But that which determstsd me to this way of late Years, has been the Observation that I have made of the Gust of the Times. I jind most Readers are of my Mind, and love not to dwell long on anything. This gave Siiccefs to the patlfrs, the spesiators, the Lay monk, and the like, which are a Sort of Epistles to the Public, such as I now present thee, though not in the same Form.
This brings me to the following Book, which conststs of so great a Variety of Matter, as well as Manner, that I think there is something in some of them that will please you all. I know'’ not how it is, but .this Collection seems to me far beyond that which I gave the Town with Success some Years ago under the Name of Phe Packet Iroke open, or If he Pojl boy rovd of Pis Mail. Perhaps, like carnal Fathers, we are always fondest of our youngest Children. I shall not be so much of an Author to point .out to you every Beauty, that you may find in my Work, I shall leave that to thy i)wnjudgmentand yet i.canst but recommend
PREFACE. XV
mend to thee the passionate Love letters of the lair Stremunia, I think the most valuable we have Seen in Print of that kinci I Suppjofe they are genuine; and indeed they bring their own Credentials, for no Body that was not fully possessed of that pas ston, cou’d write So feelingly of its Torments and Pangs.
1 wisti I had more on the Subject for the Ladies sakes i but in the next Volume I promise to make them Amends with two valuable Packets of Love letters : And I desire the Ladies, who have any of that Kind by them, to send them to my book seller’s directed to me. The Same, I say to the Gentlemen who have anything in the Epistolary Way by them, and have a Mind to communicate their Productions to the World, • and if I like them as well as they do, the Public shall have their Turn in being pleased with them too. There will be Some Things beside Love, in the Second Volume, which will be worth the Reading, as the Packet of an Arabian Spy, who liv’d some Years in Europe, especially in England: The Reformation and Improvement of the English Theatre, with a Sort of ■historical Characters of the Patentees, and the principal Actors of both Companies : And Several other extraordinary Rarities,
such
✓
XVI r IV C r v.y C
Such as never were in the Hands of John stredefcahy Canon Cetale, or any other Collector of Whimfeys in Italy, France, or England, all worthy a curious Eye. But I will not anticipate the Entertainment I design for thee, if thou approve the present sofar as to encourage us to go on : Elfe I Shall do as I have done, content myself with Si'
'___
lence, and leave So valuable a treasure to wiser Times, if we have any wiser Times to come, which I confess I very much doubt. However, I shall now and then divert myself with assisting other Authors, especially our Controverstal Divines, and furnish them, when they are gravesd by the Force of their Antagonists Argument, with a sar casm or two, a dry Joke, or some fresh Scandal, which may stur over the Difficulty, and Set the Reader on a false Scent till. he has utterly forgot the Point in dispute. Some of our late Controvertists are much
I
obligm to me in this Particular: But how,
, • things may go in this Matter, I shall
here make an End, having indeed no more
to Say to thee at present, and my Preface
being long enough : In which, I think, I
have fully brought thee acquainted with me
in all my Capacities, which was the chief
Bustnefs of it. Adieu.
%
1
‘ \
U / "VW V ' V '* V ♦ ^ 1 '^" V ^ ** *>^'^ V * ^ ^ \ »' '*' ^ "*^ Y ^
/vv\ AA a^a/^^ak^ia AA AA A^A/VA
^ »,
%
THE
POST man
T
rob’d of his
MAI L
B O O K I.
Containing 'Miscellaneous L e t t e r
with Remarks,
-■»
The INTRODUCTION.
fioooeeturning about a Month Q) IAGO from with my old Friend
0 R u JS cfc Downright of dou’«r%hr,
G © the County of Surry, at Ahhte
ville we fell into Company with the Baron de uejfrit, and the Chevalier D Bon.. ^
gout; L
0
(o
who, having been absent a great while in their Ramble about Europe, were now directly going Eor England, which Country, though not the Soil of their Nativity, was very much lov’d and valu’d by them both. Wherefore joining with them and their Retinue, we made the best; of our way for Calais; whence pasting to Dover, we found our Servants ready to receive us with our own Horses;; which we Set forward on our Journey towards London, though I had engag’d the Company to take my house at Bromley in Kent in their way, and there refresh themfelyes for a few Days.
We got to this stde of Rocbejier without any manner of Adventure worth notice; but we had not rid many Miles on ward, but my Spaniel Bitch, wbicli my Man ^eojfry had brought with him, beating about the Road, was very busy in one of the Ditches 3 which my Man observing, examines into thereafonof it, and finds her lugging at a sort of a Portmantua; which Jeoffry, on dismounting, found to be a jviall, and we all concluded (what on Inquiry we afterwards found true) that the post man of that Road had been rob’d, and that the Thieves had thrown this Mall astde as not to their purpose.
I know not what Devil of Curiosity prevail’d with me, but I order’d lleojifry to take It up, and bear It along with us.
Soon after we found another on the Brink of a Pond, but by good Luck not wet; this encreafin^i our Cargoe, we struck out of the public Road, and got with the Dusk of the Evening to ray house near b.oynley.
Supper
( 3)
Supper being over, and all other Encumbrances, as well as the Women, and Scandal being remov’d, Pipes and Tobacco, and excellent obo her, succeeded;; the Company, cloy’d with Wine in their Foreign Travels, chose Malt before the Grape here in England.
Well, Gentlemen, (faidi) what dp you imagine was the Motive of my ordering jeoffry to bring Home the Mails we found on the Road? Why truly, Sir Roger (afisum’d jack^dotonright: ')
I did not think well of it by any means, since it might have been the Cause of fometrouble to us, had they been found among us : But I have since confider’d, that your being a Justice of the Peace and Quorum of this County, that Magistratical Authority wou’d bear us out.
For my part, (fald the Baron) Sir Roger DE Whimsy is well known, and his Temper and Adventures so famous, that I expect Something very pleasant from this Proceedure.
Why truly, (Said 1) my Lord, I am pretty well known in my own proper Person, and more by my Family, which Is Spread by Marriages, inter marriages, and Alliances, through all the Counties of England and tvaris; (aj* for Scotland, I confess I know little, my Travels halving been seldom Northward) : There is scarce a Family of Note, of Wealth or pow’r, but I am either akin to, or extremely well receiv’d by it. Among the Ladies none have met with, better Success than the house of the De whim feys; nor have we had many Wits, at least suc cessful Wits, who have not been rated to us, or Submitted to our Advice land Direction. In short, the Antiquity of our Family in France, *
B z ‘ ('for
V 4;
(for we came into England with the Conqueror) I believe might be trac’d as far as King Pepin, if not to Pharamond the First.
Ay ay, (interrupted Jacks) you are always bragging of the Antiquity of your French Pedh gree. i’ll allow it you, and add Chilferic, and the rest of the Morovean Race, who were so nearly related to the Family of the De whim feys, that they fuffcr’d the rower of the Mayors oj the Palace to get to that head, as to be able to wrest the Sovereignty of France out of their Hands. But I thank my Stars, I come of another Stock, the old tough Saxon Race; the Dou'nrights had rather have their Genealogy drawn from hengifpa and Horfabs Groom, than from a Privy counsellor to Pharamond, Chilferic, and the rest.
On the contrary, I will own that the Family of the Dou'nrights is sh far from being So numerous as that of the De Whimfeys, that I never cou’d hear of any Branch of our house in any County of England; if there are any, they are so obscure that it keeps them from being taken notice of. As for the Dozvnrights of dounright hau, we have made shift to keep a pretty Country gentlemm’s Estate of about 500 Pounds a Year from Generation to Generation. We have never had any Ways and Means of encrealing our Revenue; for we were never gracious in the Eyes of Kings, Princes, Great Lords, Statesmen, or Scurvy Politicians, nor in those of any of the Fortune Menders : Nay, the very Ladies coil’d never endure us; and indeed, we seem never to have been So fond of Impertinence, as to flatter the Women into complaisance. In
the
A
( 5)
the Days of Old England, when Knighthood was confer’d on the Merit of the Sword, our Family was seldom without a Knight; but since that Martial Honour has been thrown on Quacks, Cits, Lawyers, and the like, the dovm rights have never been more than your humble Servant Do'ivnright Esq; an honest English Country Gentleman.
We have few Acquaintance, for few are pleas’d with our plain blunt Manner, which has sav’d us a great deal in houle keeping from Generation to Generation.
But, dear Sir Knight, these Baggatelleslaid aside, I pritbee tell us the Motives that engag’d thee to take up these Mails.
Ay, my Lad, ( said I) that is indeed to the Point. Why, to be plain with you, I had a mind to look into the Letters, promising myself Some Sort of Diverston by the different Manners, Ways, Sentiments, Opinions, and the like, of the several Writers; who in private Letters are more free of their Minds than in any public Discourses.
I approve your Thought, ( said the Chevalier Du Bongout) there may be much use and Instruction, as well as Diverston, in this fro lick.
As for the Letters of bustness, ( Said I) we will immediately dispatch them to the Post, that no Body may be a Sufferer for our Plea sure.
This being agreed on, the next Day I Spent all the Morning in Sorting the Letters, and sen^i^ ing away those that requir’d dispatch; In. tlii^
B 3 After
%
«
( ^)
all things being in order, the Baron, the Chevalier, myself, and Mr. Doivnright, began the Inquiry; the Substance of which I now communicate to the Public, who am the publick’s
Most Obedient Humble Servant,
I
Roger de Whimsy
Knight and Baromu of the cqunty
I
#
1
K
«

(?)
d
f
0
H
LETTER L
Ah jcte Prlncipium,
9
To the Reverend Mr. A, B. near Canterbury,
Kent.
tihat Religion in the World is only H u m o u R.’
4
Reverend Sir,
Your Letter of the 19th ult. gave me
a little Surprise on the first Perusal.
I knew you, or thought at least that 1 knew you, to be a Man of a fettled Principle, of a great deal of Piety, and a sound Divine; and therefore cou’d not imagine why you shou’d seek my Thoughts of Religion, a Subject for which you were infinitely better qualified. But since you have been pleas’d to impose the Task, I shall make no Scruple of giving you my Sentiments, since the Privacy of a Letter secures me from the Censure of the Malicious, who are noisy generally against what their Ignorance shall wrest to an ill Meaning, and make that against Religion, which is only against their Opinions.
First then, I am perfectly of your Opinion, that Religion, that Divine Band, which binds us to our great and good God, consists chiefly in abion, for chri/ijefes everywhere ex presfes it as the Rule of our Faith; he will
B 4. not
C 8)
\
not allow of the Religion (rf Tongue, it must be of the Heart, exerted in the Love of God above all things, and our Neighbour as ourselves; and he judges of the Love of God by the Love we show our Neighbour; nay, the Measure of our Condemnation at the Last Day is taken from our Deficiency in doing Good to our Neighbour; He plainly tells us, that not those who say to me Lord, Lord, but those who do the Will of his Father, should be accepted by him; which Will is through the whole Gospel made Sufficiently to appear to be in Action. For indeed, if crying Lord, Lord, and being noisy Zealots with the Tongue for Speculations, made a Chrijiian, and were a Part of the Scripture religion, never was a more Religious Age than the present; Whereas a Man must be guided by a more than.ordinary tavishness of Credulity, to supposc one in ten thousand of these Tongue religionaries have any share of true Religion.
Having premised this, I shall with the more Freedom tell you my Opinion of Religion, as it is now generally practis’d throughout the World. I find in my Lord brookj'sremains this Couplet:
Humour it Mens Religion, Power their Laws, tkir Wit Confujlon, and their Will their Cause,
t
A very Severe Satire on Mankind, and the more severe, because I am afraid it is too true in the general; and I fear it would be no easy matter to find any great Number of Exceptions to this general Rule.
But
( 9)
But here I have nothing to do with anything hut the first Part of the first Line, Humour ts
Mens Religion.
And this I think is futficiently evident from the great Variety of Religions through all Ages, and Nations; for if Men had always, and everywhere built their Religion on Truth and Rea son, all the World wou’d be of one Religion, since Truth is but one, and Reason the same among all Men s If this were the Rule of Conduct of Men in this particular, the Scripture Christian Religion wou’d be Catholic or Universal; for So it is in Its Nature and Constitution. But a general Defection from reason, which first corrupted the World, and brought all the mife ries, both of Body and Mind, which have shaken that Peace and Happiness which Supreme Reason, that is God, had defign’d us for, admitted the Pastions, By interests, Fancies, and Humours of Men to form, or rather deform this holy Band, which with an easy Tie bound our Souls to God; and so rob’d us of the most certain Security of our temporal as well as eternal Happiness.
But this Maxim of my Lord Brookj will yet be plainer, by a short and cursory View of the different Sentiments of Bodies of People, that is, of the Nations of the Earth, which loudly proclaim Fancy and Humour their Source.
Every Nation almost: had Gods of their own, to whom they astign’d the Protection of their Country; for though the unlversal Moral Religion was more or less spread through them all, yet the Politicians and Priests imagin’d that a Principle, which made all Mankind one Fab
5 mily
( 10)
%
jnily and one People, would not answer their Ends; since the Power they aim’d at was to be fettled and maintain’d by Division, and the Enmity of Nations; to confirm which, each setup his God, to bring Heaven into their Quarrels, and justify their Invasions of their Neighbours; and hence arose Tyranny and Extent cf Dominion, which yet keep the World at odds.,
For whilst the Gods Said only what the Priests wou’d have them, and the Priests were at the Command of the Princes, these cou’d ' never want heavenly Vouchers for their Actions,
whether against their own Subjects, or Foreign Nations.
Many of the ancient Eastern People thought it Religion to adore the Sun and Moon, and the rest of the Host of Heaven, as the Peruvians likewise
did when first discover’d.
Others made themselves Images sometimes of Men, and Sometimes of mixed Natures, that is, compos’d of Man and Beast, or of Fish and Man, as the Dagon of the philijunes.
Sometimes of beautiful Women, as Afiarte, and Venm, Many Indian Nations have their Idols the most terrible and frightful that they can form or imagine : And to these they offer’d not only mere Animals in great Numbers, but even Men, Women, and Children : As the old Britons particularly, wh^, filling a Wicker Machine with People, consum’d them all with Fire, as an agreeable and atoning Oblation to their
Gods.
The
(ll)
The Bdmanr iptace all their Religion in making Hospitals for lick and disabled Cattle, and other Beasts, and in refraining from eating anything that has Life in it; though at the same time they are the most immoral Rogues in the universe, the greatest Extortioners, Usurers, and Cheaters.
But it wou’d be endless to run through the fantastic Roll of the Polytheism, which I believe will easily be granted to be mere Humour, Caprice, and the like, and to bear not the least: Resemblance of true Religion. We will therefore quit them, and come to those who are called Chrijiians. But, alas! we shall find the matter not much mended, or Religion much more remov’d from Fancy and Humour.
To begin with that large Body of Chrijiians,., the Romanijis. The Church of Roffie has admitted almost all the Follies and Impieties of the Heathens, to which she has added not a, few of her own. The Worship of Images, and of Saints and Angels, differs very little, if at all, from the Adoration of the Idols of the several Gods of the Pagan Nations; they have added the praying for the Dead, and the making of Gods, and then eatin? them, with various other Whimfeys, obvious and known to every one. theromanijls think it Religion to go in Pilgrimage to Some saint’s Shrine, orchapel, and in that they rival the M.d. ometans. They put ridiculousty their Faith and Religion in the lyingwonders, and ridiculous Miracles, ofwhich their Legends are fall, and which they read with that Reverence v/e pay the Holy Scriptures. Some of them are extremely Santastical;
B (J as
(12)
as for Example, I have read this in the Life of
St catherine of Sienna. She was a cook maid in that famous City in Italy, and that she might have time to pray, the Angels us’d to wash her Dishes; and she by this Means grew into such high Favour with Heaven, that the Virgin Mother, and Jesus Christ frequently convers’d with her. Our Saviour at last took out her Heart, and put his own into her Body; and to complete her Happiness, he married her, and David play’d on the Harp, while the Angels danc’d; but whether they danc’d Minuets, or Country Dances, my Author does not determine. She had a most sagacious Nose to smell out Mortal Sin; and when her Father Confestbr came to her from his mif trefs or Whore, she knew it by the Scent, and so rebuk’d him for his Wickedness.
There was another Saint, called St. Simon Stelites. This great Saint, to arrive at a more than common Perfection, retir’d to a Desert, and had there a Pillar erected eighteen Foot high, and no broader at the Top, than to afford room for one Foot; So that St. Simon be ing got to the Top of it, stood upon one Leg for many Years together, Day and Night; how he stepped, or what Food he had, or how he came by it, I cannot remember.
The latter end o f the Saints Lives, in a large thick Quarto, has the Lives of some Modern Saints, and of Some who were only beatified; for Beatification does not cost half the Money that a Canonization does, and does the bufi nefs every whit as well, for you may pray to one as well as the other.. Among the rest, it
tells
( 13)
tells us of one, who having a Fit of Siclcnels, his Physician told him, that nothing but eating Flesh would Save his Life 3 but to oblige him to this, the absolute Command of his Superiors was necessary;; a Chicken was prepar’d and brought to the Table: But the good Man still unwilling to eat it, prayed to God that he might avoid the eating it, and yet not disobey his Superiors. Immediately the Chicken sprung out of the Dish, and flew out of Window.
But it would be endless to relate all the Absurdities of which these Men compose Religion, for whatever Fancy and Humour could Suggest fills up the Roll. So that I believe most Men, who are not Papists, will give up the Church of Rome likewiie into the Number of those Men, whose Religion is Humour.
And to them we may add the Church, and all its under Churches, which entertain the like Notions.
We come therefore of course to the reform’d Congregations; and omitting the con fideration of all those of a Foreign Establishment; for Brevity Sake, we will only touch upon those we have among us : And 1 sincerely wish that Fancy and Humour would be found banish’d entirely from them. But here. likewise, we Seem willing to compound with Heaven on the eafiest Terms we can, and place our chief Zeal in the Circumstantials of Religion, and not in the Goffel Ejpntials, from whence have arisen these Differences, these Feuds, and these Animosities amongst us. Whereas, if we made the plain and easy Doctrines
(14)^ '
trines of Jefm Chriji our Religion, we should. agree in a perfect: Love and Unanimity, and " by loving one another, prove that we are the
disciples of the Lord.
But alas! To do that, would be to banish all our Vices, our Pride, our Avarice, our Revenge, four Ambition., We should no more struggle or the Superiority, nor the Power of impoiing the Doctrines of Men on our Neighbours, nor damn all those who have not the same Sense of Some obscure and difficult, at least doubtful passages and Expressions in the Scripture; but every one endeavour to work out his own Salvation, and leave the confci ence to the Judgement and Direction of God, who can only judge truly of it.
Thus, some place all Religion in going to Church, a much easier Task than to master our corrupt Appetites, forgive an Injury, love God above all Things, and our Neighbour as ourselves. The Ladies are particularly zealous for this Point; for by going to Church, they sh ew themselves and their fine Clothes, and can come home full of as many Jll Humours to their Families and Husbands, as they vent with.
But I forget that I am writing a Letter and not a Treatise, which stops me in the midst of my Subject, that must for that Reason be de fer’d to another Opportunity, If ever 1 turn Author, it shall be upon this Subject; and yet I fear I should be thought guilty of a Sort of Don Qpdxotifm, whilst I strive to reestablish the Purity of a gospel Religion, when I am like to find too many of the very Preachers of
the
(Ij)
the Gospel itself my Enemies, as well as the wicked Laiety. An Heretic perhaps might be the mildest Term, and Appellation I should meet with. But tho’ I have made you here a double Letter, yet there is scarce room left to afsure you, that I am
Your jtncere Friend and Servant,
Abel Truelove.
When this long Letter was perus’d: I strict jfsaid the brow) that Religion has a (Quality of the Manna of old, in which every one finds that Taste he likes best. Or rather (assum’d the Chevalier') Rtligton by this Letter is like the Tarrand or Chameleon, that, they say, change their Colours according to the Herb or Flower they lie before.
But that Ambition, Thirst of Empire, and Scurvy Politics, gave rise to the Multiplicity of Religions, (as this Gentleman observes) is evident from the History of Jerohoam the Son of Nehat, who made Israel to sin : For though in the Covenant made with him by the Prophet Shilonit, he was to preserve the true Religion of God; yet, when he was once postefs’d ^ of the Kingdom of Israel, he argues to this Purpose; that if his People worship’d at ideru falem, and had the same Rites and Religion with the Tribe of Judah, they might in time unite again with that Tribe, and he be Sacrificed to Rehohoam. He therefore Set up the golden Calves at Bethel, and built the high Places, and made Priests to officiate, of the lowest o:
the
the People; thinking to Secure his Kingdom, when he had provided it with Gods of its own, and Rites different from those instituted
bv Mofts.
Of all the Whimfeys (said Jack Doivnrighi:) of the Heathens, I find none but the Egyptians, who planted their Gods first, and then eat them. So shat she Gods they adored in the Morning, at Noon made them a Salad, or relish’d a Ragoust: And indeed, I think these Gods much more Savoury Food, than she Papist Gods made of Flower and Water, and something of a longer Duration; for the Priest makes these Gods one half Hour, and devours them the next.
For my Part, (said I) I am glad he left off where he did; for I am afraid if he had gone on, he would have made us Protestants a little Whimsical likewise in Religion; but we have reason to hope, that what he has said
will only reach a few of our People.
• 0
«
LET
A
n
/
u7)
LETTER II
V
To Mrs. Catharine Fairwit, near Dover,
Kent.
r
A Declaration of Love,
year Madam, I make no manner of doubt, but that you have obferv’d my Conduct: so well, as to know that I am one of the Number of your Lovers; but lest I should be deceiv’d in that Opinion, and your want of that Knowledge should be a delay to my Happiness; I venture now to give it under my Hand, that I love you better than Health blessed with the Smiles of Fortune; for those, without your Smiles, could never give me a sincere Happiness. I doubt not but you have been told So by many, and, is they Spoke the Sentiments of my Heart, with a great deal of Truth. But since you have not yet made choice of any Candidate, I hope I may put in my Claim. You must not expect from my Pafllon any of the Efforts of common Lovers;
I shall not make so much as an Anagram upon you; nor shall I tell you, that your Eyes are twin Stars, that your Face is the Sun, your Bo some Hills of Snow, or the like. I grant your Eyes diave a Light, which they disperse all around; but it is their own, and not borrow’d, and at the same time dazzles our Eyes and inflames our Heart; in short, it is Such a Light, that no star gazer ever difcover’d in any of
the ■
(l)
the Planets or fix’d Stars; it gives a present Comfort, shd promises future Joys: Fine, full, black, rolling Eyes, replenish’d with Spirit in their Motion, have an irrefifiible Power; and a Man would strive in vain to disengage his Heart from them, if you thought it worth the keeping.
As your Eyes are much more agreeable Objects than the Stars, fois your whole Face than the Sun. The chief Benefit of the Sun is Light; and the principal Advantage of Light to me, is, that it shows me you. It discovers Charms in your Face more enliv’ning to Flesh and Blood, than all his Beams. Ruddy Lips, Teeth Small, even, and of the Colour of Pearl; Cheeks, where the red and white are So finely mingled, are such Beauties, as the old Greeks Fablers made the Gods come down from their Heaven to pursue the Love of Woman. As for your bosom, I shou’d wrong it to call it a Rock of Snow; Snow could only give us the dead Colouring, which is heighten’d by Nature with a pleasing Warmth, which Titian himself could never express.
To stop here, for to go further would be to follow Imagination into an unknown Country, which even that Imagination could never defer!be. Thus I love you, Madam, for your own Charms, without endeavouring to magnify them by Similes and Hyperboles; but it k, because I think they cannot by Such be made greater than they are. If any one should not think this enough, let him but behold you and be convinc’d.
Well, from wbat I bave Said it is plain, you are truly lovely, and therefore may very well
be
L
be belov’d; but you will perhaps demand Some Proof that I do really love you, since Words are but weak Arguments or a man’s Sincerity in this Age: If I knew any Proof greater than what I am going to offer, I would not omit it; but the surest Testimony of Love that I know, is Marriage; yes, Madam, I am ready to enter into the holy State of Matrimony with you, if you give your Consent. I confess I once thought, he who built his Happiness on Woman, built on a very Sandy Foundation;. and that has thus long kept me from what I now Seek. If I was a Heretic so long, it was, because no Woman before your self brought Such convincing Proofs of my Error; for now I plainly see, that there is, that there can be no Happiness, at least for me, without a Woman, that is, without you.
But you will Say, all that marry do not love. True, there are other vile Considerations that produce Wedlock, as Money, Obedience to Parents, and the like. But none of these can reach my Cafe: My Estate and Wealth is too far above what injurious Fortune has left you Mistress of; nor have you my Father or Mother to influence your Choice; so as you are the only Aim of my Desires, So it is wholly in your Power to gratify them. If you can think of any other Way or Means for me to convince you of my Sincerity in this Point, let me know it, and it shall Soon be embrac’d and perform’d, by,
Dear Madam,
Tour moji faithful and Jmcere Lover,
♦
• 0
Ambrose Largea C r e s.
(20)
This is an Epistle of Some old Bachelor, (said the Baron) and of one who puts some Confidence in his Bags. And if Miss Kitty have but half the Wit or Cunning, as she has Beauty in the Eye of old Amhrofe, she may make a good Bargain, and sell herself at a very advantageous Rate.
However justifiable (astum’d tfie Chevalier) Amhrofe may be in his Motives to Marriage, 1 mean in Prudence, the Lady has certainly a most rational Call, a good Settlement; a large Jointure for a Small Fortune. Marriage stems to me like the Smallpox, a Distemper, that every one (generally Speaking) must have one time or other; but it proves most kindly when it comes in our younger Days. How happy this may prove I shall not pretend to determine, as Icnowing neither of the Parties; but / I have made it my Observation, that your old Bachelors, who have rail’d all their Lives at Women and Wedlock, generally make Such a Choice for themselves at last, as may justify their former railing against the Sex.
Marriage, (Said I) as Chaucer has it, is like a Rabble Rout, when you are out you’d fain get in, and when you’re in you’d fain get out.
That is, fassum’d jack^voumri^t) txeoowth Curiosity draws you in; and a painsul Experience when you are in, makes you wish your self out. But Wishes, dear Knight, are in vain, ’tis Death, only Death, can figii your
Qtdetui.
L E T
«
)
LETTER III
• ‘ Fooltjh Inquietudes, or the false judgement which
is pafs^d on other Mens Happiness.
To jjohn Vaincare esq; near Maidflom iix
Kent,
Dear Jack,
WHEN shall I have a Letter from thee
without some ridiculous Complaint? Whoever is happy, ’tis plain you are not so; nay, that you cannot be so, as long as you give way to that uneasy Temper, which you milcall the Spleen, which every Place will afford Fuel to. Why, my good Friend, if you will not be near any Blockhead of a good Estate, you must choose some more lucky Climate than ours for your Residence. Now you have got a new Grievance, Jack. Neatjleather has bought an Estate near Maidfhne, and you cannot without Pain See his (jrandeur, and hear daily of his large and encrealing Poffestions; You say, his Father was a poor shoo maker at the Bath, and not being able to live by his original Trade, went to Barhadoes - where, by what Means you know not, he grew prodigiousty rich, and left such an Estate to Jack., the Object of your Indignation, (for I would not call it your Envy) that by good Husbandry he has brought his Income to looooh a Year. But
what
( 22)
P
what if his Father had been a Cohhr, I can See nothing in all this that ought to affect you. Has his Gain rob’d you of anything real? Has he made you Poorer, by his getting Riches?
But you say he’s a Blockhead, and deserves not to be so happy. Leave that to Providence, my Friend, the best Judge of its own Difpen sations. Blame not an Industry you want, and yet what is so necestary to thrive in the World. If you are uneasy in your Circumstances, take the right Road to improve them; if you contemn the Means, prithee be not extravagantly conceited of your Merit, to expect Miracles in your Behalf.
But why is he a Blockhead? Why, he has not a Taste of Poetry; knows nothing of ho met, Kb'gd, Ovid, Spenser, Mihon, and the like j but spends all his instpid Life, without any of the fine and gay Pleasures that humane Nature is capable of, and which distinguishes a Man from a Brute. He is perpetually telling his Gold, toiling to heap up the shining Muck, for he knows not what, or whom. -
Well, my Friend, all this granted you, whst is become of your Cause of Complaint? Would you change Conditions with him? Be as senseless, as dull as he, to have his Money, which you wou’d then perhaps enjoy no more than he does? You call him happy j I deny he is so, for a Fool cannot be happy, it requires at least good sense. A Miser cannot be So, for he is a persect Slave to his Desires of Gain, and Solicitudes, and Fears of Lost.
Thanks
(»3)
Thanks to Heaven you have enough to enjoy all the Sweets of Life, and to keep off all Fears of its Anxiety from Fortune, if you would be pleased not to create Tortures to yourself. How many worthless Fops do I see pafs me every Day, lolling in their gilt Chariots, and four or five Footmen behind them I When I meet Tom Addle among them, famous for his Wealth and his Pride, and foolish Ambition, he moves nothing in me but my Laughter; though
I do not know a wretched Rogue, that is move undeserving than he is; there is no Creature he ever did the least good to, or spoke well of j He seems to me a Species by himself, as bad, if not worse than the Devil. And he has been so great a Fool to declare it too; for upon Application made to him for an unfortunate Gentleman in great Distress, he said, he did not in his Nature know what Compassion was 5 that if he saw a Man lying on the Ground, on all the Racks of Pain and Want, and that bis crossing the Way and giving him but Sixpence would make him a happy Man, he knew not so much Pity as to do it.
But then you say, why is such a Diabolical Monster happy, and abounding in all the Goods of Fortune?
My Friend, there is nothing in which Men are more deceiv’d, than in the Judgement they make of other Mens Happiness. They conclude from a magnificent Equipage, a great Estate, Coffers Sull of Money, Power, Dignities and Titles, that the Posseffor of them is happy; whereas happiness rarely, very rarely enters gilded rooss. The Monster I have ^ men(
(
mention’d. Is of all Men the most miserable, being every Day extended on the Racks of Avarice ana Ambition; of Ambition that can never be Satisfied. tom’s Forefathers were too well known, to let even Money, that we would think could do all things, purchase him a Peerage, which he hath attempted with Some considerable Expense, for his Avarice here, is fubservient to his Ambition; but his Punishment is thus strengthened by the loss of his Money, and the disappointment of his aspiring Hopes.
But my Letter will not afford me room for all I have to say on this Head; I shall conclude with two Instances, which will I hope Satisfy you; one of a very unhappy Man, pof fefs’d of the greatest Power and Riches; another of a poor Man perfectly happy, with very few of the Goods of Fortune.
Eufebifts of Neuremberg a learned Jefmt, gives us this Story. There was a Grandee of Spain, (he does not mention his Name) who from Small Beginnings raised himself to the highest Posts both Military and Civil, that the sfa nljh Monarchy could bestow; and had sh entire an Ascendant over the King, that he always defeated his Enemies Assaults, both private and public, against him. No Place or Dignity was confer’d, but by bis interposition;; brought all who had any Hopes, or Pursuits at Court, to an abshlute Dependance on him.
This brought him in incredible Riches, and in a few Years made him Master of one of the largest Estates in Spain. Thus, were his two
darling
(^5)
A
darling Passions of Ambition and Avarice fully gratified, if it had been in the Nature of those Pafssons ever to be Satisfied.
He was of a comely Personage, and a fresh Complexion; and in his Youth, had receiv’d innumerable Tokens of the Ladies Favours. He married into one of the bess Families of that Nation, and his Wife was esteemed the most beautiful of her Sex; by her he had several Daughters, and two Sons, all goodly, and promising the greatest Comfort to the Parents.
Thus far nothing could in all Appearance be added to his Happiness; a noble Estate attained in the vigour of his Age, and So Settled a Power, that he wanted nothing but the Name of a King. Yet, my Friend, let us now look into his Family, and his private Anxieties, and you will find there was little real cause to envy his Condition.
His wise was beautisul, that alarmed hh Fears; she was generous, that gave a perpetual Torture to his Avarice. The Promist of Posterity every Day decreas’d, all his Children dying in a Small Space, except one Son and one Daughter, and they only liv’d to make him more unhappy. He is next afflicted with the Gout in a most violent Manner; and his Fears for his Bags gave him difquiet both Day and Night. He was by his Post obliged to keep a great Equipage, and every Servant he had, he imagin’d a Thief. This made him deny any one of them to lie in his dwelling Houle, but lock’d them out every Night to their Quarters in the outhouses. He scarce
C indeed
k
( 2 5)
dndeed ventur’d his own Son and Daughter to
remain th ere.
Ills Daughter, now about fifteen, took a Fancy to one of hereather’s Grooms, and privately Marries hirn,, proves with Child, and was forc’d to acknowledse the whole Matter to her
- O -
Father; who soon dispatches the Groom into another World, which yet was not conceal’d from the Daughter j who coming into his Bedchamber, said, you were the Instrument by whom Providence brought me to Life, and now you are the Instrument of my Death, foi owe you nothing:; with which Word she stah’d herself to the Heart, and died that Moment. The Mother at the Sight run mad; the Father found Pangs enough in the Event, to furnish his after Days with many Hours of Misery, which was sufficiently encreas’d by the fatabend of his Son. Which happen’d thus:
The young Man had but a poor Allowance from his Father, at least far short of what his pr) fuse Temper requir’d; and therefore he agreed with some of his Companions, to empty Some of the old man’s Chests, and deliver the imprison’d Gold, to Supply those pleasures which he thought his due. Having prepar’d all things in the best Manner he could, they got into the house, and had remov’d a confi derabie quantity of Money; the Gout holding the Father So firm a prisoner, he could not come to the rescue of his Bags. But great Frights have more than once remov’d lamc ness for a V hile; So getting to a Window by which the Robbers past, he shot among them, and by chance shot his own Son, all the rest
e Sc aping
(2?)
escaping with a considerable Part of the Booty.

Morning came on, and the young Gentleman was found dead in the Courtyard 5 and thus his Labours and continual Fatigues, all the Injustice he had been guilty of to heap Wealth, and engross Power, were lost; after a miserable Life, he died Childless and in diss
trace; and thus his very Name scarce furviv’d lima Day.
Had Men, my Friend, judg’d by Appearance, this miserable Wretch had been call’d happy, and Providence as falsty, as impiousty arraign’d for his prosperity.
I nave been so long upon this suppos’d happy; Man, that 1 have but very little room left tor him who really was fb. In short, I find my Example in a Country parson, of about fourscore Pounds a Year; parson Upright he was call’d, from his erected Walk, never in the least stooping, as long as he liv’d. He de serv’d that Name as justly, for his up Way of Living, in all his Actions disc" ering a true Chrijiian.
He was blesf’d with a handsome and V >u ous Wise, and Several Children of both .exes, every way answerable to Such a Father and Mother; he educated all his Sons hinsclf, as his Wife did the Daughters; the Boys he fitted for Trades, the Girls she mad the best of housewifes; and at their leisure Hours, the Father gave them a little Light into Such Learning, as might be Serviceable to them; as Grammar and History. Both the Sons and the Daughters were Musically inclin’d, which
C 2 they
(^8)
they took from both Parents; so that he could entertain his Friends with an agreeable Con sort of Vocal and Instrumental Music of his ' own begetting. His Children were, indeed, like Branches of Olive about his Table. The Daughters Accomplishments got them good Husbands, to whom they were Fortunes without Money, as they all acknowledg’d. The Sons were all put out to gainful Trades, in which they grew rich, with the Reputation of honest Men; and blessed their Parents with a View of a happy Posterity. The Father and Mother, and the Children, were always amicable to one another, and equally dutiful to their Parents to their Deaths; which happen’d in a reverend old Age, he being Fourscore and one, she Seventy; they died both on the same Day, and were buried both in the Same Grave: So, that after a long Life, Spent lovingly together, without (i^arrels or Strife, Death itself seem’d not able to part them. They' were attended to the Grave with a long train of Children and Grandchildren, and join’d by all the Parishioners, every one of whom thought he had lost a Father and Mother in them; for all his Time he kept ’em from Variance, and made up all Differences; always helping the Needy by his Interest, when he could not by his proper Stock; In short, he was their Physician and Lawyer, as well as their Pastor, and lov’d them so well, that he would never change his Cure for one more beneficial; and so liv’d happily, and died universally belov’d and lamented.
I fancy you would choose rather to be this poor Country Parson, with fourscore Pounds a Year,
than
#
(ip)
than the spanljjj Grandee before mention’d, with all his Power and Wealth.
I wish w’hat I have said, may cure you of your troublesome Spleen, as you cull it, and teach you to mind the fixing your own happiness, wuthout fretting at that of others; and to judge no more by Appearance, which is too apt to deceive us. these are the sincere. Wishes of
Your real Fftend and Servant,
C H A R L E S C A R LI L E SS.'
Kochefoucaiih (said the Baron) Says that a Fool has not Matter enough to make an honest Man of; but this Gentleman wuu not allow a Fool capable of Happiness. Truly, (alsum’d the. Chevalier) if you allow the Sorrner Maxim, you may admit the latter; for ’tis my Opinion, that a Man that is not honest cannot.be hap
But meth!nks*(pursu’d Do'ivnright) Mr, care less should have given us a Definition of hap pinels, and then we should with more ease have decided that Point. I think it is a Sound Mind in a Sound Body, to have no Desires beyond our reach, and to be Sully Satisfied with, our present Condition.
At that rate, fconcluded I) the Number of the Happy, as well as Elect, is but very Small.
C 3 LET(
(
0
0
1 — — MM — — I, „■ I Ill ■ IIIPWP^P bml IMHIP — — — ■■ IIMW I nil
LETTER IV
*jhat our Reformation of Manners is a meet
hypocritical Cam, and fantajiical Chimaera.
- • ♦
To Lriftram a/iw^ esq; Jullshe of Peace,
to be left at the Hicks s hall Coffeehouse,
near Smithjield, London.
0
My old Friend fujiice Nimis,
"'yl O U may perhaps be surpriz’d at a Letter S from me after so long a Silence; but being lass: Week at Canterbury in a public Room, I heard your Name, and your Conduct made very free with by a couple of young Sparks, who, were passing that Way towards France, in order to make themselves more finish’d Coxcombs than they were. I confess, that their Discourse rous’d that old Friendship I had profess’d for you, to examine a little nicely into the cause of their Rancour against you, in order, if I could, to vindicate your Reputation from their asperfions; and was not dissatisfied to find, that they were So angry with you meetly because you were justly Zealous in the Execution of your Office, which too many of your Bench have generally Sufficiently neglected; which I thought in Justice sofar from a Reproach, that it Seemed the highest praise they could give you.
King
(30
King tkillum, in a conversation with a Nobleman of my Acquaintance, told Himj that the Laws of England were in themselves excellent, nay, perhaps msore excellent than those of any of our Neighbours; that the Legislature had taken care to provide against all the Evils incident to humane Societies, but that there seem’d a general remisness in the Execution of them, which render’d them of little or no Effect; Some being for excustng a Criminal. because a Friend or Relation, others for Money, So that those only suffer’d, who had neither Friends nor Money; but could we once gain Such a Set of Justices as my Friend Nimd, who would have no regard to private Ties, Parties, or Bribes, this Infamy of our Nation would soon be remov’d.
This I urg’d so home to the young Gentlemen, that they had only this to Siy, that Severity was indeed necessary in a Magistrate, and that Execution was truly the Life of the Laws, which without that are a mere Speculation of no manner of use to the Public; but that then this Zeal should be against all Crimes, and not directed only against one, which is So grafted in Nature, that it is a mere Jest to aim at the extinguishing of it: That all your Rigour only reach’d the poor Whores, which your prosecutions only harden’d, and made ten times more wicked than they were before; and that only for the Sake of a Company of Scoundrel rascals, call’d Reforming Constables, and their Followers the Informers : That it was not very likely th^it the Devil shouldlpromote Virtue.
C 4 When
(30
When they had said this, th call’d for their horses and pursued their Journey, but lest me with a Re Solution of Writing to you on this Subject; of which 1 shall give you my Judgement.
Immorality is a very popular Pretence, to cover Actions which proceed from a cause more infamous than those Immoralities Some Men are so loud against.
It is now near thirty Years, since this noise of the Society for the Reformation of Manners was rais’d, and I wou’d fain know what pro gress it has made; is there one Whore or jbawd the less for all they have clone? They have indeed publish’d a large Catalogue of the Names of these two Sorts of Wretches; they have carted half a dozen Bawds, and whipped Some Score of poor Harlots in Bridevel, whence they have come So far from being reform’d, that they were ten times more imptt« dent and abandon’d than besore : And all this while none suffer’d in this case, but Such as could not bribe the Informers either with their persons or their Money, the Price of their Whoredoms. Many civil Women were abus’d by them, and great Evils brought on Families by the Villains that were employ’d in this
(pious Work. To repeat the Particulars would
iwell to a Volume; I shall mention but two ^ or three. A modest young Woman was fbl' low’d by one of these Fellows, tho’ attended at, a distance by more of the Gang; he tempted her ' all he could t get her to go into a Tavern with him, but in vain; and yet she could not shake J him offi till coming near to an Alehoust where
there
(33)
there was a Bench at the Door, he desired her to rid herself of him, by sitting down there in the Street, and sharing of one Pot of Ale; the Terms she thought innocent enough, and sat down; by that time she had pledg’d him, the others came up and seiz’d her for being pick’d up in the Street, and had carried her off, but that one drinking by, and hearing the Matter, interpos’d, and being a Lawyer, so frighten’d the Informers, that they were glad to make off. But had k not been for. this Accident, the Poor Woman wou’d have been drag’d to brideu el, and so ruin’d, having a Husband too subject to Jealousy.
There was a Lady of my Acquaintance; who. was by the mistake of the Coachmam carried to a Tavern of an ill Reputation, which stood just by that to which she directed him; and having sent for a Gentleman of her Acquaintance, of whom she was to receive ten pounds; (Money fav’d unknown' ta her huf band) they had not been long enough together' to drink two Glasses of Wine, ' but in came the Reforming Constable and his Gang, who carries them before a certain Justice,, who sent her to Tuttle Fields Bridevel; and tho’ the Geii' tleshan got her out as loon in the Morning as he could, the Husband heard of it, and Sent to her not to come home any more; nor h is. she ever liv’d with him since, tho’ she has oblig’d him by the Means of douon commoyn to allow her a Pdaintenance,
Had not this Lady had Friends, she must hnve starv’d by the Folly (not to call It worse) of the jusrke of the Peace. I shall only add
G 5 one
V 34 j
one Instance more, because I knew one ofi the persons concern’d, who told it me himself.
Three Sober and elderly Citizens one Sunday went to the other end of the Town, one of them was oblig’d to call at a certain Place, and defir’d the other two to step into the cof fee house and wait his Return. They call’d for Coffee, but there was nothing to be had but Brandy; they call’d for half a Quartern, the Woman brought a (Quartern, and then soon came In two or three Informers with a Constable, with whom while the Citizens were arguing, their Friend return’d, who being a brisk Man, demanded of the Constable to carry them before a Justice, and with them her whom they call’d a Bawd: The Reformers told them it would be Scandalous to have it known, that two Such grave Gentlemen should be taken in a bawdy house; that theresore they had better give Something to the Poor of the Parish by their Hands, and go their Ways. They reply’d, they were not afraid of that Matter, ann So oblig’d them to go and carry Madam with them.
Being come before the Justice, he began to harangue them with the shame of the Fact, Why, Sir, do you know this to be a bawdy house? Yes marry do I, Said the Justice, the Woman is an old Offender. How Sir, affum’d they, and have you permitted a known baw dy house to be kept open, to betray ignorant People like us into a Premunire? But Sir, we will give you in Bail, and shall examine whether your Commission will warrant your Conduct in this Affair. The Justice was affrighted
0
135;
ed with their resolution, and came to this Agreement, that the Constable should ash their Pardon, and that the Sign should be pull’d down the next Day, which my Friend asfur’dmewas done. Now had these Gentlemen been timorous, they had been thus betrayed to pay Money for the Roguery ost those who were to receive it.
This Stir against the Whores, on Account of Immorality, puts me in mind of the Mob in the Oedipm or Dry den and Lee, who thought there was no Sin but Murder; as if there were none immoral but a Common whore. But indeed, this is such a Sort of Immorality, that easily furnishes the Tongues of the worst of Men with a canting Clamour, by which they gain the Reputation of Saints; and those who Scarce believe in God, with that of the most:
Religious: Oh the Immorality and Profkanenefs of the Age! They cry out, while they devour Widows and Orphans, without the least Check from their Consciences; who can oppress the Poor, Squeeze the Necessitous, and ruin Families, and yet pass for Saints, as if their Actions were not far more detrimentally immo ral, than those of a Common whore. Hence it is plain, that all this is but a canting hypo crisy, to palm upon the World a Company of Devils, for no less than the Upright and the Godly., _
This is likewise a mere fantastical Chimaera, a plain Don Quixotijm, encountering Windmills, or making a monstrous Bustle to no manner of purpose: To effect that in this Nation, which never was here, or in any other Country in the World; and I dare assert, never
C 6 will
(30
will be. We find that when the World was not so Populous as at present, the Patriarch lay with one he found by the Way fide, which was the Station of those Mercenaries in that Part of the Wshrld. where they pick’d up their Sparks. ’tis true, she prov’d to be his Daughter in Law, but he thought her one of the Common; which shows that there were Such, even thus early in the World. My dear Friend Nirnd, when thou, or any of thy Fraternity of Whore hunters, will show me any Capital! in the universe without this Cattle; or, when you’ll prove that you have lessen’d'the Number of any in London, but one Whore, I will agree that there is firm Ground for your Zeal; but till then, 1 muss think you are all fet to work by other Motives than Religion j and that all you have done or shall do in this kind, is only to multiply Sin, obliging, by this new Tax upon them, the poor Wretches to ex pose their Bodies the more Srequently and the more desperately, to Seed the very Scum of Mankind, the resormers of Manners.
?ylethinlcs you might find Some more noble pursuits for So active a Zeal. Step into the Taverns, and destroy all their Sophistical Brewings, that his majesty’s good Subjects may not be poison’d in their Mirth and good Fellowship. The Censors of the College ol Phyficiatis have a Right to inspect the Apothecaries Shops, and burn or throw, away the decay’d or bad Drugs; and why should the Vinthers' be exempt from as necessary a Scrutiny? And who more fit for that Office that
a Mid
%
> -
(
t 37 J
t
a M'tddlefex Justice? Or you might Scatter the
Sharpers, the Gamesters, and Gaming houses, where So many are daily undone. But it is pleasant enougstto observe, that when the wise City put down the Drolls of bariholofneiv far, the Raffiing shops and Gaming tables were suffer’d to unseatonable Hours in the Night.
IS your Zeal is more Heroic, go to Exchange alley and disperse the Stock jobbers, that Trading Sort of Gaming, where thousands are every Year over reach’d and undone by cunning Knaves, and tricking Sharpers.
If you will be Patriots, look, into the pri fons, see what Inhumanity and Barbarities are us’d to the Unfortunate; how many are confin’d in the Marjhalfea, and some other by pri fons, for half a (3rown; and undergo for a Misfortune, more intolerable Punishments, than the most criminal Offenders in the most rigorous Countries in the World.
I might send you to Greenwich hofpital, to take a Survey of the Condition of the poorfuperan nuated and maimed Seamen, by that to discover how plentifully they are provided for, and how few Land lubbers are admitted to feed upon the tarpaulin Foundation; but that' perhaps may be out of your Jurisdiction. I shall conclude my long Letter, with the Advice of a Friend : Do not signalise yourself as the Don Quixote of fq’sfds hall do your Duty justly, that is, impartially, that is, be most Severe on the rnost criminal Immoralities; and Spend not your very aflive lise in pursuits, that are of no more conscouence than IS you had lain still
all
allsthe course of your Worshipful Magistracy,, This is the Advice of
Your old Bottle Companion arid Friend,
R I C H A R D IR O N S ID E.
Mr. Tronjide (said the Baron,) h^s exprefs’d Some fellow-feeling for the poor pains takers of the Hundreds of Drury.
Let him have a fellow-feeling for whom he will, (assum’d the Chevalier) he is perfectly just in his Sentiments; for I think there can be nothing more evident, than that Hypocrisy fet this new Work of Reformation on Foot, with much Noise to pursue what can never be attain’d.
At least, (said Downright) by their Methods, for the devil’s Imps are but odd Apostles for the cause of God.
True, my Friend John, (concluded I) it is more the bustness of the Clergy to effect it by Prayer, good Exhortations and a bright Example.
LET
k : > y /
LETTER V
Ithe Gamesters Defence
Proving that Gaming is as honeji and innocent' a profejjiony as any of those from, which Aldermen arise
»
was dire6ted
To hlvs. Labitha Buckle, a, t Ma.q: CV Obadiah Buckle's, a belt maker, near Paul's churcm Tard, London.
Bright Mrs. Tabltha with the gdden Locfs,
and golden Dowry,
THO’ it is sometime since you difmiss’d me your Service; yet being oblig’d to stay a few Days at Canterbury in my way to France, I there heard that you are now going to enter the holy State of Matrimony with a future Doctor of Phystck, for from your Purse he waits to take his Degree. This is .the occa lion of my present Writing, to show, that you have made the worst Choice, in choostng a Murderer before a Gamejier, (or as you arp pleas’d to call us) Sharper, the much more innocent and less criminal person; we only strip a rich Fool, and Jbring him to Sobriety and Repentance, which the Rogue otherwise would never have thought of; the young
Doctor of Phystck, by first being a Retainer
of
140;
✓
of two or three topping Apothecaries, and satisfying their Avarice with chargeable pre fcriptions, without regard to the Health or the Pocket of the Patient, m: ty, Vilce David, in a few Years kill his ten nj’housinci, and so get into Bustnefs as they call It.
Mrs. Tahitha, I destre you would look back on all that has pass’d between us stnce I strst pursu’d you in the Street, from our wicked end of the Town, to your more godly Abode; and then you will recollect how agreeable you thought Mr. Bemigard on So little an Acquaintance, and how you admitted him into yous father’s Tabernacle of righteousness, representing me as a most Sober and accomplifh’d person to old Obadiah, who, upon his virtuous daughter’s Character, gave me free egress and regress, till the Devil, I believe loth to lose his Hopes of me, made the discovery to you that my Name was Coggdie, and not Bemigard, a Knight of the Box and Dice, and no Gentleman of an Estate; tho’ indeed I only assur’d you that I was a Man of Fortune, and truly, for on her blind Ladyship, and my industrious Elbow, ^ I bear the Part and Appearance of a Gentleman in So agreeable a Manner, that more than Mrs. Tahitha have thought me a very pretty Fellow'. Rut indeed I was not So fond of my Profession, but that I had'rather have enjoy’d the Money your Father went to the Devil for, than to go to the old Gentleman in Black, for what my Industry might find a lucky Hit to obtain. But stnce it is So,. I am Sure of Some of Mrs. Tabithds Friends and Relations for my Companions.
But
( 41)
But why are you so averse to a Gamrfier? I mean one who lives by Gaming. Oh! it is an Abomination, down right Cheating, and the living on the Ruin of Families. Well Mvs.tahitka, and what do you think of dear Fapa? do you imagine that he got all his Wealth honestly by selling of Belts? If he had no more than Honesty would have given him, I had never thought of addressing his Daughter; no, no, first, he got by the oppressing the poor Workmen, whose Sweat, and whose Toil and Labour fill’d his Pocket, whilst their own Families starv’d; so the difference between' him and me, is, what I get I force from the Rich, and send them away empty; but he Squeezes the poor Labourer, and makes a hundred Families miserable to fill his Coffers.
This holds good of all your thriving Shopkeepers and' Traders who employ the Poor, whom they are Sure to keep always in that Number, So that obamah is not the only Rogue in the City.
Then what think you of Exchange alley ?' That Groom Porters, as I may call it, of City Gaming: Has not thy honest father play’d’ many a Game there, thrown many a merry Main of the bear skin, to fill his own Pockets, and empty those of his less cautious Neighbour? All the Gamesters and s harpers in Town are nothing to the Gentlemen of that Alley; they are but mere Dealers in the Retalc of Mischief and Ruin, in which the Stock jobber deals by wholesale.
So
( 42 J
So much for the City — But what thinl you of the Lawyers,, those Conservators of our Rights and Liberties? The Practice of Law, their Market, and they have no manner of regard to Right or Wrong, but plead the worst Cause for a Fee,, and oppress the bell which is destitute of Money enough to run the Gauntlet of all their Hearings and Rehearings, Writs of Error, Common-law, Kings bench, and above all Chanceryby which the Lawyers swallow the Estates contended for, and wc Fools that employed them, leave off Beggars. So is your Liberty and Properties guarded, and So dispos’d of by Mercenary Tongues.
I will Say nothing of the Divines, they are the common Topic of Raillery, and few of them get Estates as ever I could findi
Upon, the whole, sweet Mrs. Tahitha, I, thinic it will appear, that you have rejected the most honest Profession that a Man can get a great deal of Money by, to choose the worst; for of all,, the Physscian is So much the worst, as Mens Lives are what he deals in; all other Cheats are only in the Goods of Fortune : And you may remember that old Satan (who was no Fool) obferv’d, So long ago as‘ the Time of Job,. That a Man will part with all, rather than with his Lifi; and yet, so many part with that every Day for the Benefit of the Physicians, that the Distast call’d the Doctor Sweeps Men away more, than all the other Distempers in.the Bills of Mortality.
A
So
(43)
So, sweet Mrs. tabuha, much good may it do you with your Galen and Paraceljm, for I have fill’d my Paper, and so adieu;.
Dear Mrs. Tahitha,
Yours,
Edmund Cocgdie.'
A good whimsical Sort of a Letter (Said I) the Sharper rambles agreeably enough; And with too much Truth (affum’d Downright) for I am afraid there are few Estates got with that Honesty and Integrity, that the Severity of Religion requires. He has omitted one way of growing Rich, (purfu’d the much
more criminal in my Opinion,, than any. of these; and that is, Estates got hy t\ie'public, where the Nation is the Dupe to private Gain; and he that has amass’d great Wealth together by the Government enjoys it, and. transmits the Spoils of Thousands to a worthless Posterity, For Small Thieves are bang’d, but the great Robbers triumph in their Rogueries.
Nay, (Said the Baron) the Sharper has been modest in his own dfesence, for we have heard of Men of Dignity, who have not dlfdain’d” being of their Fraternity; and it is so modish, an Employ, that it can bring the Footman from the Coach Tail to his lord’s Table, and Sometimes to his lady’s Bed.
Besides, (resum’d 1} the Sharper has this Advantage of all the other Money hunters, the
Wretches
(44)
Wretches he makes are all Vounteers, for no Man is forc’d to be a buhhle; he is So out of Choice, and not out of Necessity. True, (pur su’d the Chevalier) whilst all the poor Labourers in the other State are compelled to it, by being oblig’d to Serve their oppresscrs Screven that miserable Livelihood they get under them.
Another Advantage (Said the Bami) the Gamester has is, that by what he does, he inflicts apunifhment on the moil destructive Vice of humane Nature, Avetriire, which has ruin’d So many Kingdoms and Commonwealths; .foi the most arrant Bubble that is, becomes lo by s Dissatisfaction with what he has, and a Dessre of more.
And yet (concluded Dovonright) the Sharp) gains no great Advantage in Esteem or Honesty, and Glory and Reputation, by being the Executioner of this Punishment, Executioners o' all Punishments being detested, witness the Hangman and the Devi, the two great Executioners
of this World and the next.
\
V
. A'
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -• -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - —
L E X
I
( 45)
>
L E T T E R VI
*phe Advantages and Comforts of Popery.
It was directed
To Mr. Pinnace at his House in Maidstone,,
Kent.
Dear Tom,
SINCE I saw you, I have taken a Trip to France, not to Parts I assure you, I had no Call to improve myself [in Dancing : I went no further than Calais, and that about Bustnefs, which held me there above a Month; in which times got acquainted with a merry Fellow, that
us’d to drink with me at the Fille de Londres, a new Convert, as they call them; but on our Conversation I found that he was a Protestant in his Opinion still, though he outwardly conform’d to Save his Bacon, that is, his little Estate, and himself from the Galleys.
Monsieur Antoln (for that was his namej had a curious Collection of Papers, which he communicated to few but Englplo, in whom he had some Confidence, among which was this Letter, the Transtation of which I here send you. That it is genuine, I cannot Say, having no other Voucher but the Gentleman who permitted me to transcribe it; but this I can Say, that it contains nothing but the real Principles of Popery; it is Said to be written by
a Priest
( 4^)
a Priest of Bullolgm, to one Monsieur Sl Andrt
.at Calais,
■my dear Combei'er,
The Business of this Epistle relates more to honetkjaques than to you, and therefore I desire you to show him my Letter if he be with you still, and not trip over to that Sink of he refy England. I have often been afraid that his conversation with those Heretlcks here in their Journeys to and from Paris, wou’d Some tlmeoi other rob me of the most agreeable Companion; I ever had In my Life : For Jaques has a great many engaging Qualities, as well as Frailties ’tis true, he loves a Drab as well as an Englifi> man, and his Bottle as much as a German; bu( Then he has the Gaiety of a true Frenchman, k all Spirit, Life and Mirth.
He is very much afraid of going to the de will; and therefore to Secure himself on thai lide, he generally has Some Priest for a Night companion; for drunk or Sober be will notgc 'to Bed without absolution, So that be eveni his Spiritual Accounts every Night, and wipei tut all the Scores of the Day by a Nocturnal Sacrament: Nor does be much care for Pur gatory, and therefore lays by a Stock for Indulgences and Mastes whenever he dies.
I have often told him, that he need not b( To strupulous as long as he is in the bosom oi the Roman Catholic Church; for it is said, Quy'
rite primum Regnum Dei, hac omnia adjicientm vobis; that is, Seek, first the Kingdom of God, am all things are lawfa to you : Now ’tis plain, th( ’kingdom of God is the Holy Catholic Romay
Apostolioi
(47.)
Apostolic Church; be obedient to her Precepts, obey her Priests, and all things are lawful to, .you that are Sins in the Heretics, whose best and most pious Actions are no less. This is a Comfort he will be entirely depriv’d of if he .turn Heretlck. 1 confess that ibme of them have lately pretended to Abfolutlon in the highest Sense it can be understood, viz., that there is no Condition req^uir’d In the Penitent, but the Sins are forgiven merely by the Power of being pronounced by the Priest. But to me they seem to act on a very weak Bottom, for that Power was only given to Priests of the true Succestion, for no others have the Mark that This was Said to them as well as to the Apostles, d mean Miracles : Whereas every .Catholic
Priest, every Bay he Says mass, performs a great Miracle, for he changes a Bit of Bread, or Wafer, into the Ood who made Heaven and 'Earth; and then to become entire all Divine himself, he takes his Breakfast of this God : 1 verily believe there is scarce a Particle about me but has proceeded from this Heavenly jen taculum; for 1 believe I may have made and eaten above two thousand Gods of the larger Size stnce I have been in priest’s Orders.
Put theresore my Friend Jaques in mind of •these Comforts and Advantages he has by being in the Church into which he was born and christen’d; for sh he enjoys a Heaven both here and hereafter; whereas the Heretlcks are in Pain and Solicitudes here, and will be damn’d hereafter. Adieu.
If
(48)
If this Letter do not make a Convert of you to Popery, I have Some hopes, notwithstanding High and Low, we shall still have you a goos Protestant; which are the sincere Wishes of
Your conjlant Friend.
Philip Truelove,
Though this Letter (Said I) be whimfica enough, yet I cannot think it genuine. It mat ters not at all (answer’d the Baron) whether i be So or not; it contains nothing but what i the natural result of the Doctrines of tha Church. Ay, ay, (assum’d the Chevalier) i
non il vero il belle trovato, as the Italian says; it i
well laid together, and merrily exposes th monstrous Principles of a Religion, which blessed be our Stars we are Secure against. Bu (concluded Downright) it seems necessary t expose, them when there are too many whosel^ norance of the Popish Tenets makes ’em to too favourable to ’em.
LET
/
( 49)
I HUMI! ■! ■ ■■■ ■■ ■!
LETTER VII
A Setting Match between Sin, Death, and
the Devil.
A VISION.
It was directed
0
To Habakkuk Songeur Esq; at his House In
Clapham near London, Surry.'
SIR,
WHILE you enjoy the clear Clapham Air,
and that in the very Neighbourhood of the great City; I venture from the very Fogs of the Wild of Kent, to present you with two Villons I have lately had; but whence insplr’d, I leave to you, who are So us’d to the Revelations of the Night, that you begin to pafs for a Sort of new Prophet, and all your Neighbours have Recourse to you for the Interpretation of their Dreams : The first is a Visionary Setting Match between Sin, Death, and the devh, and. which I had about fouryears ago under the Influence of the Mtdjummer moon; for if I remember well, it came to me on the z5th of June,
between the Hours of One and Two in the Morning.
D Methought
W'
( 50)
Methought I found myself at the Foot of very high Mountain, which overlook’d all Ei rope, and which 1 was oblig’d to ascend and pa in the Way I was to go; when I came to Ware the Top, I was entertain’d with a hundred di llghtful Prospects all round me, which, whil I Was taking a View of, methought I heard very loud Laughter; yet not such a Lauglih as proceeds from Pleasure, but from Indii nation, and triumphant Malice : It was m therefore pleasing to the Ear, nor delightful t the Heart, in so vast: a Solitude I then was pa ling; no, It rather struck me with Horror, an my Flesh all trembled; my Hair stood erecte as In the greatest Fright, and my whole Con pofitlon being shock’d, I was apprehensive i Some ill Adventure that threatened me.
Turning myself to the northeast, froi whence the Sound seem’d to come, I saw tli ghastly Appearance of Sin, Death, and the D 'uil. Sin and Death went with an Incredib: '^^swlftnefs, each holding one end of a Net of prodigious Largeness, so that in its Extent cover’d whole Nations; the Nature of the Me shes of this Net were such, that those who wet ordain’d to a longer Life broke through then whereas the rest were in a Minute all dead o the spot'
'as soon as it was fall’n, hasted tol Quarry to see what was caught; on his ex: mining of which, he fell into th^se loud Fits: Laughter.
I was in too great a Consternation to min much what was done in the Northeast of &
rope; but now they began to spread the N(
agai
(5v)
again for out Parts, or at least those more in my Knowledge, in which I thought myself Something more concern’d, and therefore minded more who fell into the Hands of these gristy pursuers, being likewise come a little to myself, and, as 1 thought, above the Reach of their Malice at that time.
Now therefore the Net is thrown over part
of Italy, France, Spain, and England.
Well, Father, Said Sin to Satan, whom have we taken at this Draught? Ho, ho, ho 1 reply’d the Devil, with his horrible Laugh, Here are two old rich Cardinals, that have amass’d vast treasure in hopes that the next Sede fa cante they might be able to bribe the Conclave to Set them in the infallible Chair, though one was fourscore and upwards, the other Seventy eight: Not that they believ’d that the polsel ston of the Triple Crown wou’d bring them any other Infallibility than Wealth, and the Power of making their Scoundrel Relations Princes in all the vast Variety of Beings which I have been able to discover thro’ the vast expanse, I have not met with So very silly an Animal as that of Man, vain in his Desires, and crooked in his Counsels. reason, indeed he boasts'of, and has Such an invaluable Jewel, but how Seldom does he consult it in any of his pursuits? Avarice is his Guide, and heaping vast Stores of Silver and Gold together. Seems his happiness, but for what? To enjoy it? No, the thriving Tribes have nothing let's in their Heads : They all know well enough that they have but a little time to live at the longest, and yet they act as if they were to dwell here for ever:
D 2 The
✓
*
( jo
The End of their Creation few ever think of or believe, as fuppoling no Life after this;; Doctrine that has brought me many a millioi ■of Souls, and is so well establish’d now, that. have no great need to fear that Virtue and true( Religion will ever spoil my Markets.
Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! Death and Si hearing the Devil laugh so long and so loud enquir’d the Cause;; Satan not direct! minding them, addrefs’d himself to the Dead Ho, ho! whom have we here, the Immortal Man What have thy Flatterers deceiv’d thee, anc art thou too fall’n into the common Rubbishi Ho, ho! see how his Idolaters run from hin holding their Noses! Why, you scoundrel Dogs what can your Monarch stink now he’s dead f who just now spread nothing but Perfumes a
round him? Why, foitis, my Children — Met who fell flat to the Ground to the living Prince wou’d not harbour him in their Houses whei dead: My Son and Grandson Death, thoi art a strange Metamorphofer of things in thii World.
ti’his Piece of Clay, when warm, had power to destroy whole Nations, and he was indeec my just Representative; not less than Forty mil ■ lions have bled for his Glory, besides the mil lions that are left to a miserable Life. Here here a Troop of my Imps convey him to Nero Helioyahalus, and the rest of the great Destroyer of Mankind; let him be well attended to Recrions, where he will have time to reflect that the way for a King to ascend the Stars, i; to be the preserver of Men, and not the Destroy er; he lias chosen the Lot that is fall’n tc
hinr
(53)
him, and now he finds that the Soul Is immortal.
At which I thought I saw a Troop of Devils convey the unhappy Soul away witliterrors not to be exprefs’d.
Ha! Monsieur du Pons, what are you so faithful as to attend your Mailer (continu’d Satanijl What, and to the same Place too? What, cou’d not you fiddle yourself up to Heaven? What, Said Death, was he a Fiddler? No, no, reply’d the Devil, a much more worthless Creature, he kept a whole Band of Fiddlers and Singers at a vast Expense, who sung and play’d to him all the Week, and on Sundays to God Almighty in a Chapel of his own building; For he setup for a great Zealot for the worst of the Clergy, call’d the jesuits. He got vast Riches in paying the king’s numerous Armies, and squander’d it in this manner, for I can’t find that he ever did one good or generous Action in his whole lise : But by his Death now he has escaped a Punishment here, which many of the Pillagers of the Public will meet with in a little time.
Ho, ho, ho! what, Madam Ogle, are you come at last:? Had you no Arts to charm Deaths It is well he has no Eyes, and is not a Man; he cou’d not elfe have escap’d your Snares, to which the Wife and the Valiant fell constant Victims : What must you come to my share at last? Why, you were more constant at Church than the Priest, though he got by it; nay, you got too; you got what you sought, new Lovers, show’d your fine Clothes, cast round the wanton Glances, that gave Hopes to every one, and.
D 3 by
C 54)
by that means made what choice you pleas’d. But Beauty, as well as Valour, must yield whea Death summons.
Oh! here is a modern statesman; he was originally a little Monsieur Advocate of Bretagne, where his Father and Family liv’d tolerably well, and made a Figure among the Country Gentry; but this Wretch being very sanguine, and full of Confidence in his tricking Genius, made his way to Court, where when either ill r weak Princes reign, there is great room for she Rise of the Worthless; there by Tricks he got into Posts, and so put himself on the World for a profound Politician or Statefinan : For though there be noshing wanting to govern a People but good Sense and Honesty, yet when Knaves get into Power, and do unwarrantable Things, they cover them under the Name of Arcana of State: And by this means the modern Times have excluded true wisdom, Knowledge, Virtue, Hondur, and the like, from the Governing Part of Mankind, though now and then a great Genius forces itself into Power, to the Confusion of the Trkkjiers.
But how now great Statefinan! never a Trick to put on Death? you put him off indeed a little while by one, yet you see we have ^ot you at last; here, away with him to the Den of Attorneys, Solicitors, Proctors, petty loggers, who will Scarce let the Devils alone, often trying to fet them together by the ears, not knowing shat Devils fall not out with Devils, nor persecute one another; no, no, we have Business, Sport, and Employment enough to hunt Men,
Ho!
( 55)
Ho! ho! old Fool, Sir, are you come too? This now was an overgrown Alderman, and has left behind him four hundred thousand Pounds for his Heirs to rejoice with, that he is come to me. He originally fet out from the North on Foot, was entertain’d by a rich Citizen to clean his Servants Shoes, and so advanc’d from Post to Poll, till his Master took him Apprentice, and then Partner; hut at last: he gave his helping Hand in a grateful Return to ruin his Master, and make him die a Beggar; who had taken him from Beggary, and made him capable of being a Lord mayor. But all this would not do, here we have him, without one good Deed to plead in his Favour.
Alas! poor Seven and Eleven, have you thrown out? What you, who from a kick’d Bully, and bilking of Coaches, arriv’d by the Box and Dice to 70000 1. and so became a Man of Figure, and Companion for Lords? no Trick to bilk Death and the Devil? no, no, the only Trick there, was quite out of your Taste, Ftrttie and Religion.
Who have we here? Alldove the Atheist? for so they call’d thee; but such Atheists ner ver came to me. His Love to Mankind was general, his Life was a perpetual Scene of good Actions, the Miserable were sure of his Help, let their Opinions be what they would $ yet could he not escape the Imputation of an Heretic by Some, and an Atheist by others, who were really themselves what they called him out of Envy; See, he is Sneaking away to Heaven by himself, while all that Troop of his Acquaintance tak e up their Lodging with me.
D 4 Ha!
(56)
Ha! Fire and Thunder! more yet for heaven!! City Divines, a Country Parson, a poor alms woman, a Poet; hey day! more yet, two arch bishops, one Bishop, and an Attorney who never undertook an unjust Cause.
At this the Devil made such a Roaring, that it waked me out of my Sleep, and put an end to my Vision;; Interpretation of which, my dear Friend hahakkif, will oblige Sot ever,
xout humble Servant,
Ezekiel Manlovf.,
f
In my Opinion, (Said the Baron) this Vifioti needs no Interpretation, the Lesson it teaches, is too plain to need a Comment. But I can’i endure (Said I) that the Devil should bf allow’d to Speak So much Truth. Phoo Phoo! s^sshm’d the Chevalier) the Devil raa] be allow’d to Speak his Thoughts truly amonp his own Tribe, he need only lie to Man, and that too, only when a Lie will do his bull iiess better than Truth. What he is made to utter here, is a fatal Truth, that few or none of Mankind apply themselves to distinguilli, the real from the appearing Good, which i
the cause of all our miserics here and hereafter.
But here is another Vision of honest: Etekjel.
LET
I
<.
I
(j7)
LETTER VIII VISION II
Phe Vijion of Wealth and Poverty, or the false
Appearances of Tfhings,
ONCE more, my dear Habaffuf, let me divorce thee from the Dreams of the old Wives of cupham, to lay another of mine before thee. It came to me two or three Nights after the Sorrner, and this I think was the oc cafion.
Our Neighbourinff Village was all in an
c3
Alarm about the zstb of the foremention’d. Month, and drawn out, Man, Woman, and,. Child, for the Reception of b ohert Scruhy esq who with his Lady in a Coach and Six, and Suitable Attendants, was expected that Morning, to pay a Visit to this Place of his natw vity; and whence about eight Years be fore j., he went in a much lower Condition,
This worthy person was the Natural Son o a poor Sinner, who receiv’d him in her Cups from a Wayfaring Person, whom she knew not; and so .our present Squire was as ignorant of his Father, ..as his Mother was of her
Gallant.
The miserable Drab made shift by her Labour, and the Charity of well minded People, to, raise him up to about Fourteen 3 and as his
D, 5, Per' '
5.8 y
ferson was Sufficiently contemptible, solis For tune contributed to. give himi the Name o Scruhy Boh, and made him the Laughter,, aik the Footbal of the whole Parish; till his grea Soul, unable to bear these daily Indignities an' longer, and his good Mother being dead, hi was resolv’d to Seek his Fortune in Some mor favourable Climate, and So Set forward an beg’d his way to London,
He was of a dwarfish Size, his Complexio' tawny, his Hair black and greesy, his Leg seem’d Set on the wrong End upward; his Bo dy was strait enough, and strongly made t r fit him for Labour, had not his naturvtl Laziness
render’d him very unactive; all togethe he made In the Eye of the whole Village, youn and old, a most ridiculous and despicable Fi gure. However Fortune thought better C ' N, him, and railed him from vsrmjy to Rohi I soray Est];; When he was first entertain’d, h
was only admitted to lie in the Stable, litter’ with the Horses: thence he got into the Kite! en, and in the nature of a Scullion w t Warmth, and now and then a good bit C
: Victuals to eat. How long he remain’d i
this Post I have not learn’d; but the 'nex Point of his Advancement we find in a Lady’ |: : House not far from Chifivick. in Middlesex, an
there he got in a Livery, made the Fires ft is the Maids, did their Errands, and fometimt
p was admitted to go behind his lady’s Coac
p ' when she took the Air. te: - He made his lady’s Fire So long in hf
R" Apartment, that he kindled a Fire in hf
P Heart unknovvn to himself or his Fellow Southeast
I : ' ' vant
.
■.
( 59)
vants. He was first order’d a new Livery, and care taken to keep him a little clean. When i one Day the Coach w’as order’d to carry his Lady abroad, and no other Lackey to attend her but himself, the Coachman was bid to drive to Chifvdck. Church, where while she waited in her Coach, Bob was sent to fetch the parson to her; who being come, she alighted and went in with him and Bob, and pulling out a Licence gave it the parson, and told him she had made choice of him to perform the Ceremony of her Marriage; the parson assur’d her he was ready to do his Office, but he Saw no Husband, but suppos’d he was not yet come; yes, reverend;
Sir, Said she, this is the Man I intend to make • my Husband, taking Bob by the Hand. He little dreaming of this strange Revolution of Fortune, and full of Confusion, made his Lady, many Bows; the Parson refus’d to marry her so much beneath herself; in short, she told him i she had ten Guineas in her Hand for him, and the Licence was Sufficient Authority for his. performing his Office, which if he refus’d.
Some other Minister should do it, since she was fully determin’d to have it done that very Day.
The good parson was unable to resist the Gold and the lady’s Commands, and So quickly join’d Bob and his Lady in the holy Bands of Matrimony: The Lady went into the Coach, and Bob as he came thitlier behind! it, and So got home Some time besore Dinner.,
Boh went up with Madam, nefdcctinff his usual duty of kindling the Fire in the Parlour, which occafion’d him Some Reproaches from * ihe house ivxaid; but ber T., ady told her, she ■
%
/
(6o)
might do it herself, or make some othef perform that Office, since Bob was otherwise en' ploy’d. The Maid being gone, Madam gave him a Key, and bid him open Such a Closet, and he would find a Suit of Clothes that would fit him, and Linen answerable, ordering him to dress himself from Head to Fool now, like her Husband. Bob with Joy pul her Commands in Execution, and was got rea. dv bv Dinner time to lit down at Table witl
^ J ^
his Spouie, to the Surprise and Amazement o f the whole Family.
Bob behav’d himself with great Moderatioi
in his new Fortune, and none of his Fellow
"< — *
^ had cause to complain of his Prist:
: insolence. He made a very loving Husband
> and his Lady grew fondpy and fonder of him.
i This Exaltation of Scruby Bob. to Robert Sen
I? hy Elq; had not extinguish’d the Memory C
if our Village, where he first law Light; but h
I found a great Inclination to make it a VI
sit, either out of that natural Love we all bea j ‘ to our Places of Birth, or out of Pride t
f show his quondam Friends his present Const
'I tion. But to see how Wealth alters Thing;
every one of this wile Village now fbuu j[ some Beauty in his Person, or his Actions, ani
(they all Swore that fu rely Some Gentleman be
got him, since he discover’d Siich Accomplish ments in all he did.
For my Part, I could not be of their Opinior for Scruhy Bob was still in my Mind, andl Soun nothing alter’d n him but his dress; two C three thousand Pounds a Year thrown on hir by the fantastic Ereakishnels of a Womar
(6t)
gave him in my Eye no (^ality, nor Appearance of a Gentleman. But this was nothing to me, I let the Villagers enjoy their Opinion, and pass’d on to my own House, fuller of Indignation for the Lady, than Admiration of Bolr.
When I was got to Bed, I could not but reflect on the strange Alteration in the Opinion of my Neighbours in regard of Mr. Scruhy, who could now think him charming in everything, who a few Years before hist at him as intolerable in all.
_ /
In the midst of these Reflections I fell asleep;; Fancy began to work, and I imagin’d myself at the Foot of a Hill, which I had a Mind to get up, but was deter’d by the steepness of the ascent; But in this Difficulty methought a grave Gentleman join’d me, and taking me by the Hand, conducted me through a Secret Path, which Soon and with little Pain mounted me up to the Summit. But there I found a stop to my Journey by a most terrible Precipice, defended however by a Wall, In which there were two Holes, and those filled with two Glasses, through which I might take a View in Safety of all the Vale beneath me. Over one was written in Letters of Gold Plutus ^ over the other, In plain common Characters, Pema.
Here, young Man, Said my Guide, look through this Glass, and If thou wilt profit by what thou feest, confider that to be great and happy in this World, this is the God that must'have thy chief Devotion,. bestows
not
{^62)
not only Wealth, but Power, Beauty, wisdom, Valour, and all that is valuable, and esteem’d j look through and See his Devotees, how charming they all are, how worship’d, and what Power and Grandeur they enjoy; and then be yourself your own Judge, what course to steer in the after pursuits of your Life.
) Accordingly I look’d through the glass o(
Plutits, and beheld a vast Plain extended oti every stde. Here were Several Thrones erected, and on them Sovereign Princes Surrounded with their Pomps and Grandeur; there were infinite Numbers of all Sorts, Conditions, Religions, and Nations; in the midst there march’d on towards the Thrones various beautisul Appearances, preceded by a glorious Image all of burnish’d Gold, Supported by Several awful Figures, while the Eyes and Hands of all that follow’d it were lifted up to it, and receiv’d in Return whole showers of Gold, which fell all round them, and which though they pick’d not cleanly up, yet was no other permitted to touch any one Piece of it, but all was left, as it were to pave their Way, and not for ltc j as they went, they Sung diverse Songs oi Hymns, which made a most excellent Harmony, and vshen they approach’d the Thrones,
K they, made several Speeches full cf the mod
moving Oratory that ever Mortals utter’d, till fe ■ they sot round the Kinns and Princes, and
hem’d them in, lo that none could come to Kr, them but by their Permistion.
E'' Surely, Said I, to my Guide, these are Some
R heavenly Beings, Ibraething superior to hu' '
(ys)
mane Kind; how universally charming their Persons, not one Blemish among them! What Harmony proceeds from their Songs, and what strange Emotions from their Speeches! With what Applause are they heard both by the Princes, and all those vast Crowds that look on the Procestion; Cardinals, Bishops, Priests, Men, Women, and Children, are all transported with the ravishing Sight.
But hold, what are those that follow them in a dismal Train, where were they scrap’d together? What a Rabble of tatter’d Wretches, see how all draw back at the stght of them!
As when a V eu q rac’d abor leaves the Statte.
VI f O /
Mens Eyes are tmy bent on him that enters next.
Thinking his Prattle to be tediom;
ev’n so, or with much more Contempt,
Mens Eyes did scowl on this ragged Regiment.
No one minded them, or mark’d what they did or Said, unless to show their Contempt of their Songs and Orations.
This Crew was conducted by several lean sower look’d Figures, to whom they yet Teemed to pay a very great deal of Deference. Their persons seem’d all deform’d, their Voices harsh, and their Speeches without Force. Yet now and then I obferv’d, that one of these was on a Sudden by a blind Power lifted over the others, and Set near the Princes, and then as fum’d that Beauty and Charms they wanted besore. But these were ff w in number.
Most of the forwardest and active of this Train minded hut little either the Thrones,
er
P's" — ^
- • fc ♦
C or thole that Surrounded them, but leem’d to
direct their course more to the Right, where many of their Eyes were fixed; which made. me look that Way, but cou’d discovef nothing
but a vast Pavilion, that reach’d up t Heaven, and whose Ends extended So far, that they were not to be purfu’d by the Sight.
As for that Pavilion, said my Guide, it is not worth your regarding, leave it to the ragged Fools, who go on their silly Pilgrimage to it, in I hopes of future Glory, Immortality, and I know
[ not what, you have the present in view, and
S must think of nothing elle, if you would be
[ like that rglorious Band, that So dazzles your
I ' Sight.
i ’tis true, reply’d I, this Seems the more
I agreeable Prospect, but I lee no way of coming
I at them, here is a vast Precipice which hinders
r me; and if I were Safe down that, I do not
I find I Shall be much the better or nearer to
I my Hopes, since they stem to mind no other
P Obiect but themstlvesi
p Alas! Slid my Guide, you are ignorant of
i? thest Matters, I that brought you up one Way,
f' can let you down another; the Destent is won[
[ easy, but you can never get up again,
[ tior will you desire it. Give but your Heart and
15 Soul to the great flutu t, and you will Soon find
fe Means of getting into his Favour, and sharing
J of his Bounty j but he will not be serv’d by
I? halves. You do not obstrve, I find, that thost 5 bright and lovely Figures or Beings, who environ
the Thrones, and bar all access to I the Princes but by them, are likewist str
p Bounded by another shrt of more instriur
I’ Crea^
(^5)
Creatures, like a List to a fine Cloth 5 look well, and you will find that they keep off all others from approaching the Rich, as the Rich do them from the Thrones. See how well they merit the Name of Umbra or Shadows, for they watch the Motions of the Great, and imitate their Actions in all Things; they admire and applaud all the Wealthy say and do, and so get into their Favour, and by degrees make way to the Princes tbemfelvcs. But those who are the most cunning, and manage best, find out a little Trapdoor, which is under every one of the great Ones, and where his Vices and Pleasures have their Retreat, and if they once get well acquainted with them, their Business is done, and they are Sure to rise. There are a Company of silly Rogues, who have tried to recommend themselves by Arts and Sciences, by endeavouring to instruct and improve their Minds, but they Seldom get much for their Superfluous Labour; for what Should the Rich and the Great trouble themselves with Such Things, when they are Sure of Applause, are Secure of being admired
’em? those are (Qualifications for the Poor, who with all their Arts, all their Knowledge, all their fine genius’s, can Scarce be taken notice of.
This Part of my guide’s Doctrine seem’d less relistiing to me, than even all he had Said to me before, for which methought I Sound no great Inclination. But before I could determine, I cast my Eye on the other glass, and Saw a Hand pointing to an inscription, which was,
Soror
(66)
Sapor bonce Mentis Paupeitas.
It put me in mind of my beloved Aow, and that made me resolve to look through that likewise, which my Guide feem’d unwilling to permit me to do. However I followed my own Inclination, and found it look’d intoth same Plain. But wonderful! what a chang( was there in the View? how chang’d! how alter’d were all the Objects I had Seen through the other Glass! those Demigods, at lead those who Seemed So before, were now all deformed, ugly, mean, and afffightful. Theit Songs all Discord, their discourses dull and insipid, their Looks had a mixture of Brute and idiot; and those who before appear’d little less than Gods, now Seemed below the Dignity of Men. And the ragged Regiment assum’d a more illustrious Form; Peace and Joy were in their Faces, Charity in their Miens, Beauty in their Figures, and persect Harmony in theit Voices; the Hymns they Sung, excelled those of Orpheus, Homer, or Pindar; Virtue and Knowledge were their Guides, and led them on to the Pavilion of Eternity, which througn this glass shone out like a thousand Suns. these indeed look’d like the Workmanship oi Heaven, the others like the Creatures of pin tm, or the Devil, their Eyes all cast to the Earth and the glittering Dirt they ador’d, while the Idol they worship’d, now plainly appeared a golden (dalf, supported by Avarice, Pride, Ambition, self-love, anxious Cares, languid Joys, awkward Mirth, shameful Ignorance,
( ^7)
ranee, attended with numerous Vices, tho’’ here and there were scatter’d a Head adorn’d with Knowledge, a Soul inform’d with a public Spirit, and wisdom truly celestial, that has more extensive Views than this Life.
My Guide grew impatient at .my Satisfaction in this Glass of Poverty, and letr me by my sels; the Place and Solitude gave me no Small Fear, and that Fear awaked me.
Thus, my Friend Hahakhuk, you have my Second Vision;; you have Sent me your Interpretation of both these, you may expect
Some more from
Your faithful Friend,
Ezekiel Man love
So much (Said I) for Idly. Manlovfs Visions, what is your Opinion of the Matter? for my Part I think them whimsical enough. This latter Vision ('Said the implies, that"
we stiould not trust to the gloss which Power, Wealth, and Grandeur put on Mens Parts and Actions : but to distinguish the Man from his Equipage. ’tis true, (pursu’d the Baron) false Appearance is too general in the World, and So hard to be discover’d by the general spe6bator, that a true Judgement is Seldom made of Men or Things; especially of the Works of Men. For my Part (concluded Downright) I should think that good sense, and Judgement which is always built on reason, cannot be So easily deceiv’d; but then I own, that they do not fall to every man’s Share, who
forms
4
; ( ^8)
s - forms a censure, and pronounces in thi
Cafe.
^ /
LETTER IX
I,
9
To Mr. Struewit, at his Chambers in tin
middle ljempk, London.
A Ccording to your Desire, I Send you tli fine Reflections of our Friend on th Poem, call’d, an Imitation of Nereus’^ Prophec) You know the Author, and will I doubt no approve this, as well as his other Perfornaaii ces. 1 am in hast.
Your faithful Servant,
Richard richardsoii
;
r
L E T T E R X
; To T.S. Esq;
Bn sir,
Br OINCE I ventur’d to hint.to you my Opi BS ^ nion of the Imitation of nemks Prophecy
and find it agrees in general with yours; Southeast fe: : I have express’d your Thoughts of it in tb
W following Remarks.
r % i.
P' - ' Th
Ih^s8^ '4'..
%
i bees* '
(69)
The Ode in Horace is of the sublime Kind, and one of the noblest Pieces of Poetry in that Author. He designs to express, in a Prophetic Denunciation, the Misery and Ruin which be fel the Trojans for the Rape of Helen; the Subject therefore is not only great and heroic, but has a Mixture in it of the Pathetic : To raise it yet more, a Machine is employ’d, and Nerem is brought up out of the Sea, slopping the Ship in which the Adulterer was Sailing for Troy, whilst he Sets before him the fatal consequen ces oshis Crime. The Speech is fit for a God, and the Dignity of his Character is everywhere suftain’d in it.
Confider now whether there is anything in the Gast of this Ode, or the particular Sentiments, that wou’d Suggest to you a merry Thought, or that Seems proper, by way of pa rodie, to be turn’d to a Subject of Humour. I cannot tell whether there is any Allegory in it, or that Horace meant any Secret Application of this old Story to the Civil Wars, or Factions in his own Country; but this is certain, that the Moral is very noble and important; and the Application of it to the Earl of Mar, and to the consequences of the Rebellion, is an elegant and happy Thought. It is certain too, that this might have been extremely well executed in the serious Way, and was capable of being work’d up into a very fine Poem. However, I may venture to affirm, that (which wayfoever is befl) it ought to have been of apiece, either wholly grave, or wholly humorous. Instead of that it is neither, and yet both. The Imitator cliufes to be pleasant, but he follows a wrong
Idea:
(70)
*
Idea : In spite of his Design you See tl Sublime and the Pathetic have theprevalenc in it; The Serious destroys the Burlesque, an the burlesque insects and debases the Seriou Can anything be more foleinn or poetical tha these Lines?
Then roll’d his eye halh to and fro o’er his Paternal Hills of Snow.
But then follows;
V
And into these tremendom Speeches,
Broke forth the Prophet without Breeches.
1 If the Sublime, which preceded, had bee the false Sublime, there wou’d have been Hi mour in giving it this Turn of Ridicule; bt as it is, it seems an improper Mixture. \vhe the Speech of the Prophet, who is usher’d 1 with such a description, is call’d tremendous, yo perceive immediately that it is an Irony, aw you fmlle at the terrible Character of his Speed: compar’d with the contemptible Figure of th Man: And yet it happens after all, that hisspeecli i; i Some Parts, is really tremendous, notwitb Handing this intended Mixture of Levity: Am the whole was So originally, till taken out o the Mouth of the God Nereics, and put into th Mouth of a poor blear ey’d second fightec scotch man, describ’d in Tatters, without hi Breeches.
You will find Such another Instance of thi improper Mixture in that Paragraph; *
* Douglas,
( 71)
Douglas, Tvho ciraws his Lineage dowm.
From Thanes and Peers of high kaiou n, c.
The Characters are here defcrib’d with as much Dignity as those in Horace :
Non Laerkaden, exitium tuae
gentisy non Pylium Nejlora refpicis? c.
And the whole is serious till after those Lines :
And Monroe, kindled into Rage,
s' nv’riy defies thee to engage;
Hill rout thy Foot, tho’ ne’er so many.
But now it finks into Raillery,
4
/
And Horje to hoot, if thou hajl any.
The last Paragraph of the Poem has the Same Fault : For nothing can be more Solemn than all the verses in it, even to the middle of the laftline, when instead of ending seriously, joc fey is brought in to dole all with a Jest.
these Instances I think Show, that the Hut
_ •
mour is forc’d into the Poem, and has no more to do there, accorcling to Nature and good sense, than Penkethman in the chief Scene of a Tragedy. Or methinks ’tis as if Wilki, in the middle of a grave Part, shou’d Sometimes Sail into his manner of Sir Starry jvildair, in the Trip
to the Jubilee.
Gi ve me leave to add a Remark or two about the Characters.
There
(7^)
There is likewise some Inconsistency here: The God Nerem is too much sunk in the Scotch Wizard, and yet not enough. His Figure is very naturally drawn; in the beginning of his Speech you hear and see the seofcfman; and his Prophesying the Plunder of the highland Bonnets and Plads, are good Topographical Strokes of Nature and Humour : But from the Simplicity of this Character, you wou’d hardly expect that he shou’d afterwards grow witty and facetious; much less that he shou’d rise into the Sublime, and speak like the godnereu^ inhfo race’s Ode, with no less Dignity both of Sentiments and Expressions. Besides, how comes he, after the firll Paragraph of his Speech, all of a sudden to forget his Scotch, and not to drop a word more to the end of the Poem?
The Characters of the Loyal Chiefs are well drawn : Say, Athol, Douglas, Forfar, Argyle, are
finely complimented. Firgil cou’d not have mufter’d his Heroes more honourably. But ir all this Part ( which I think is much the bed Imitation of Horace) there is no Offer at Mird or Humour, and no one of them has any Mixture of the Comic in his Figure, except suihr hnd with Voice so rujiy : Which Circumflancf (though natural enough) might better perhaps have been omitted, since the other Characters have no Such Sprinkling.
For the reasons I have here given, I cannol but wish, since there are excellent Lines in thi: Imitation, that the whole had been Serious, am I am Sure the Imitator wou’d have Succeeded much better. I am, ct c,
K IV
*
N
J
(73)
The Letter (said I) is worthy the Author,
who is one of the most accomplish’d Gentlemen I know. True, (Said Downrighn) I am of your Opinion, for I know him; and I, who am not us’d to be very forward in praising, must Say that he deserves the most you can Say of him. He is a Mailer in Musica very good Painter, an excellent Poet, and a judicious Critic. Allowing all this, (assum’d the Baron) I can I think add Something to his Remarks on horace’s Ode. It was made (if I mistake not) on this Occaflon. Augtifius Cafar had a mind to remove the Seat of Empire from Rome, to the Place where Troy once flood, which put Horace on showing in this manner that the Place was accurs’d by the Gods, and that no City stiould prosper that ftiould be built on it.
But in my Opinion, concluded the Ckevalierf the English Voem, with all its Faults, has Merit enough to deserve our praise.
/
E. BOOK
t 74)
/
4
qcii^qqi^^q: q^^^qq^^)qq^^^qtq^^^gq^fe^q
BOOK IL
have we here, (said I) a
^ ^ whole Packet! What, shall I read
m w ^ it, or lay it aside for Something
of less Bulk? No, no, the whol( Company cry’d out, let us hear it
.Dis directed, said I, to John Worthy ^ith^
House in Red lion Square, London.
#
\
LETTER I.
My dear Friend,
Your Eameftnefs for the inclofedlet
ters, have made me dispatch them b; the Poll without regard to the Charge which I know you do not value. You have al ready perus’d my | Proposal for the Eftablift ment of an Academy of Sciences here, thougl more extensive than that of richelieu’s in France
fc
t See Book K
> *
(75)
for mine includes not only the Improvement of our Language, but the forming a new and much, more valuable Body of the Hifiory of our Country, and that of our Neighbouring Na ‘ tions; Painting, Music, Poetry, the Reformation of our Stage, and the railing it to thatper foction which that of Athens had, besides many things useful to the reviving a Public Spirit in the Love of our Country, and which I need not repeat to you, since my Proposal is in your Hands.
I had great Promises from some of the Leaders of both Parties, but yet you find nothing is done in it, and I am fatisfy’d there never will be till Some great Man arise, who is above the common Pursuits of the Fortunate. The noble Lord, to whom these Letters are address’d, 1 believe wou’d have accomplish’d it; but the Change of the Minlflry put it quite out of his Power. You will find by the Freedom I took, that he, is a Man above the Vulgar, since he was not in the least dirgulled by the Boldness of my address. I will detain you no longer, but Subscribe myself
Your ohligd and faithful Friend,
Charles Dickson
e2 LET
‘ «•
\
(7^)
LETTER II
tio the Moji Honourable the -- -- -- -- -- of -- -- -- -
Great undertajtings fit to be laid before
Great Men.
— mww mmmrntnrmu~mw‘m t mnrrr trt~rtt nwrwtmrm n rr~rtr r r~t~ trntt t~ f — ^ r, „ - -
. Quis entm fotejl aut defend, per fe Patrid, aut op
prefsi beatus ejfe.
__ ^ ' — ___ d
My Lord,
QINCE my Opinion of your lordship’s Judgement, and Public Spirit, has already drawn on you my Importunities for a very considerable Service to our Common Country, (for which certainly a Man of your lordship’s Post, Quality and Fortune, cannot be less zealous than I am, who nave nothing to lose, by its Ruin, but my Life) 1 must beg leave to remind your Lordship of those Hopes, you have been pleas’d to give me, that my proposal of •• the Academy was not only highly reasonable'
'that your Lordship wou’d contribute all your Zeal, Power and Interest, for the Speedy persecting of a Design so beneficial to your Country, as well as honourable to yourself. And, my Lord, I must beg leave of your lord ship to use all that honest Liberty which the Importance of the Affair requires, and the great' reason and Judgement, your Lordship is Master of, will admit; Since after this time, I shall
not
(77.)
not give yourlordihip any fruitless Trouble m a cause, which in itself (if justly weigh’d) must be more pathetic, eloquent, and prevailing to a Man of sense, and a true statesman, than the Tongues of the best Orators and Pleaders cou’d make it, with ail the Foreign Additions of Art. For Truth, as well as wisdom, has in its bare and naked Beauties more Charms than they cou’d receive from the gaudy Colourings of the Pulpit, or the Bar.
If therefore, my Lord, what I have Said, and what I now Shall Say, will not accomplish what I aim at with your Lordship, I am unaajuaint ed with the Advantages of Impudence, and im portunite Teizings to recommend it; Not that 1 am ignorant that few gain their Point at Court without them; but that I am conscious of the evident Merit of the proposal, and of your Lord (hi p’s being not only a true, but a judicious Patriot, whose Understanding distinguishes, and whole Love promotes (without those Goads and Spurs) whatever is beneficial and honourable to your Country, and to your Prince, whose Interest, Honour and Glory are, in my Opinion, truly and inseparably the lame; and for which, justly united, I can, I thank God, with as much willingness and Joy Sacrifice myself as Cu Fm, or any honest Roman of them all; for as I have always lov’d my Friend better than myself, So I shall always love my Country and my Prince better than my Friend : I hope therefore, that your Lordship will forgive any Liberty I may take in this discourse, since the Love of that Country prompts me, and the Service of my Prince in her Honour, Grandeur and
E 3 Hap
(78)
Happiness, inspires my Zeal to make this one Effort to obtain that which, I think, deserves (evsh from your lordship’s Approbation) a dispatch, or at least a Prospect; of one, or some Encouragement worthy your lordstiip’s Honour and Judgement, and the usefulness and Excellence of the Proposal; for my Reading, since the last Paper I presented your Lordship, has gix’en me Assurance enough to say so; since, by that, I have found my Opinion concur with one of the greatest Men, and greatest statesman, that ever Italy bred, I mean, my Lord, lorent.o di Medici; The Similitude of whose Design, for the Same End, I shall more than once mention, as well as propose his Honour, Virtue and resolution, to your lordship’s Emulation : For I have no reason to doubt, but that an English Nobleman of your lordship’s Parts and Spirit shou’d do as great things as a Nobleman of Florence.
If your Lordship had made any Objections to any part of this Design, I shou’d here have confider’d them, in order to remove all Difficulties that may delay the Public Service. I do think indeed that I remember, that your Lordship did once seem to intimate, that you were apprehensive that it wou’d be hard to compass this Affair in the time of War; but when I reflect, that your Lordship did not Seem to be distatisfy’d with the answer I had made to this very Objection, rais’d by myself in my first proposal to your Lordship, I have Some Doubts whether you insisted on that, or not. But to remove all that can be brought, I shall first transcribe what I then Said, and then See
how
*
(79)
how much farther I can enforce the Argument; Which Shall be the Subject of my next. 1 am.
My Lord,
Your Lordjh'ps moji humble'
'ohedieht Servant,
C D.
‘V
LETTER III
Lhe lime of ivar, no improper Lime for Undertakings produbive of a Public Spirit.
My Lord,
pursue my Design, I must put your Lord s ship in mind of my Arguments in my former Paper, mentioned in my last. The Words in my first Proposal, are these;;
“may be objected, that this Time of War “is not a proper Juncture for an Undertaking “of this Nature, but with Submistion to bet“ “Judges, ( to say nothing of parallel instances)) think this is infinitely the most:
“proper Time that cou’d occur; for when so “necestary, bloody and expensive a War is in “view, all the Means that can be contriv’d to “keep up the people’s resolution, must be al“ “not only proper, but necestary; but “to have a perpetual Succestion of public “Discourses, directed to that End, attended
E 4. “with
J
J
(8o)
with the Pomp and Ceremony of the Per“ “will hearten the People, and six “their Zeal for the Prosecution of a War that “wou’d daily be made appear of that Necef “lity for their Defence, nay Preservation. And the Daily Praise of her majesty’s Conduct, the Actions of her Generals, and the Just “ness of the Administration, would raise the people’s Admiration, Admiration w'ou’d be“ “Love, and Love is always active in the Service of the belov’d.
I must farther add, that Alfred, who fought with an Enemy in the Bowels of his Kingdom 40, or as others 80 pitch’d Battles, in the midst of the Dmifj Invaston founded Oxford, and Several other Schools of public Learning; ordained, that all Men should put their Children to School till 15; gave Royal Encouragement to Learning in his Subjects, and by Rewards drew hither learned Men from abroad. Poetry had his particular Favour, as Writing in the old Saxon Verse himself. This Prince, in infinitely greater Difficulties than thec^een, God be prais’d, is ever likely to be, found, in the midst of a powerful foreign Invasion, not only time to confider the Advancement of Learning and polishing his People, but thought it no ill Policy to do so : For whoever knows anything of that prince’s Life, must own him as eminent for Civil Government, as War; witness his admirable Body of Laws, like those of Jujhnlads Codex ^ and that address in the Management of his Affairs, by which, from the greatest Distress a Prince cou’d be liable to, in Spite of the excessive pow’r of a barbarous Enemy, too osten
fixed
(8i)
fixed in the heart of his Kingdom, terrible to his Friends, and watchful of his Motions, he efta blifh’d the Monarchy of England in so noble a Degree, that I doubt very much whether this Nation was ever more noble, more dreadful, more just, and more wise, than in his, and the succeeding Reigns, till the fuccestive Degeneracy of Princes destroy’d the Foundation of that Happiness he had So wisely laid.
This, my Lord, is no ill Argument, I hope, that the Time of War is not fb improper a Time for the promoting Learning, and the polishing and refining the People, as may be suppos’d, since that only can render them capable of nobler Notions and Actions, than can be expected from Principles So degenerate as are now a mong us.
If my proposil requir’d any Money from the State, the important Emergences that demand it, might be a just Obstacle to it; or if the powerful Interest of an oppofite party were prevalent in the Cabinet council, the tediousness of. the Debates might at this Juncture take up too much time: But when we desire only a. bare Charter, without a.farthing out of ’ th’e (ijueen’s Pocket, and when there is no body to, make an Interest against it but two or three Players, and that against the highest demonstrable Justice, Reason, and Religion; I cannot have so mean an Opinion of the wisdom, ho nour, Justice, and Religion of those that com pose it, as So much as to fear that there can be
one Word offer’d in their behalf
*»
5. fefidevs,,
I (82 >,
t Besides, my Lord, Betterton, wkose Lioeno
I for Acting expir’d with the late King, ha
found Interest enough to have it renewed b’ I her Majesty, either with, or without the Ad
I vice of the Cabinet council. If without it
I certainly this, which is so ihuch more to th
Honour and Service of the Queen and Nation ' can meet with no Difficulty there; if with thi
i Advice of the Cabinet council, certainly those
who had leisure to confider and grant a Licence 'i > that, if thoroughly confider’d, ought to be Sup
press’d, will never suppose it Time wasted, 0: Advice, ill given to Set that up in a much greater persection. And I dare be confident, tha they wou’d pay an entire deserence to you;, lordship’s Judgement in a thing of that Na
ture, if they did not immediately apprehenc
ps the reasons and Demonstrations of its Use anc
p Excellence.
I Can any Time, my Lord, be more proper
I than that of War to reform our Vices and pub
I lick Abusts, and promote our Virtues, bj
I which, or the want of which, all Nations rile
i or fall? Can any Time be more proper than
I that of War, to reconcile all Factions, put an
i f end to all Parties, whose Animosities retard the
fhi Dispatch of Public Affairs, and give too many
Advantages to the Enemy, as I cou’d easily make appear? It was a wise and just Observation of, on his deathbed, to Jugurtha,
and his Sons, that Concordia Resfarva Crefeunt, If Difiordid magnee dilabunturmrilon advances small,
J while Faction destroys great Kingdoms. But
our Enemies, besides their vast Force, are made more powerful by a perfect Union among them s ' felvesj
(83)
Selves, and we are rob’d ev’n of that povv’r we might have, if united, by fatal Parties, that lose the public Good in a blind Zeal for private Passions, and all sprung from Avarice, or Superstition; for whatever interferes with the Good of our Country, is not true Religion 5 which certainly, when rightly understood, is the Surest Balls of the State, as it has always been its Destruction when mistaken. Can therefore any Time be more proper for the removing, or to begin to remove, thole Obstacles to our happiness, than when that happiness is most at stake? For there never has been, since the Roman Commonwealth, a Juncture So critical as this, on whole Turn depended So certainly the Liberty or Slavery of Europe. Let therefore, my Lord, these weighty Considerations prevail with your Lordship to exert yourself in th is for the rescuc of your Native Country, and in that of all Europe, from Danger, iff not Ruin. I am,
My Lord,
Your l<^rdjhifs mojl humble,
and obedient Servant,
G. D
E 6 L E T
✓
W ^
f
(84)
•*
L E T T E R IV
More Arguments to the same Purpose, See.
My Lord,
TO pursue this Point yet a little further, the great Divishn in England, my Lord, is betwixt the Dissenters and Church; for this includes all the lesser Political Factions. The Dissenters have always grown by Persecution; and their Pride, and Ostentation of Suffering, have won not a few to their Party 3 for while Mankind are more govern’d by their Passions, than their reasons, the Suffering Party will still engage the Multitude, while their Pity bribes their Judgement to believe, that the Sufferer is always in the Right, especially in Matters of Religion, in which Zeal and Obstinacy have so large a Dominion. That Formality, and specious Hypocrisy, that has promoted this Faction, gain’d new Force from Persecution, which would infallibly fall off on an entire Remission of Severity towards them, and their Vizor of Austerity wou’d drop to the Ground, if'theyyenioy’d a perfect Tranquillity, and were Softened by frequenting public Diverssons. But while the public Diverssons lie under such Prejudices with them,, they will never participate of them, and by consequence cannot be polish’d by what they think a Crime to behold : Whereas, If by accomplishing my pro posal they were put on an unquestionable Bottom
1
(85)
tom, the Dissenters wou’d not Scruple to come to them, and by that means in time wear off the Rust of their Affectation, whence both their Obstinacy, and our Miseries proceed, and by consequence, my Lord, no better Time tham this can be found to fet afoot So necessary a Work, which cannot be too Soon begun. But that these Diversions are conducive to this end, I. will not obtrude my own Opinion dogmatically; but prove by^the Same Effect, in the like Circumstances, the Certainty of my Posttion. No Time nor Age produc’d a greater Man, than Lorenx.0 di Media; and he, to suppress the Divisions of Florence, took this very Method, as will hereafter appear.
Again, my Lord, in this Time of War Mr. F— — got dooo /. Subscriptions for the Building a new Theatre for opera’s in the Hay marlirt, and has already taken measure of that in Dmry lane for his Model; which is a very pregnant Argument, that he understands nothing of Theatrical Architecture, for nothing can be more contrary to it than our Theatres. I confess, my Lord, that your Lordship has not So abfblute a pow’r in the Court, as Rdckelleu had in that of Fiance; yet It can be no Doubt to any that know your Lordship, but that if you wou’d exert that Interest and pow’r you have with her Majesty, and the Cabinet council, you might with no great Difficulty obtain a Charter, which wou’d be So honourable to yourself, So Serviceable to her Majesty,. and So beneficial to the Nation. The (Opinion they have of your lordship’s Candour, Judgement and
Honour,,
(8^)
Honour, wou’d give a prevailing Influence to their Advice; and the Evidence, that in this your Lordship acted without any private View of Self-interest:, wou’d still add fresh Force to your Reasons.
If Mr. V -- -- - (without that Quality and 0-
pinion your Lordship justly enjoys) cou’d per suade so many to subscribe fodargely to the Six thousand Pounds out of their Pockets for a mere and imperfect Diversion, at a Time when our Great Men are not very forward to part with their Money, (the greatest Obstacle to a thing of that Nature) how much easier wou’d it be for your Lordship to win the consent of a much Smaller Number to that which does not touch a thing so sacred as their Purse?? have not forgot the Difficulty your Lordship seem’d to raise, that it wou’d be look’d on, in your Lordship, perhaps, as too partial afond ness of a Study, to which your lordship’s Inclinations were so notorious; yet, my Lord, I hope, you will give me leave with Submifllon to answer, First, That when this Design is back’d with so many, and Such Substantial reasons for your Zeal, as well as their Consentit cannot justly be judg’d a partial Fondness of Inclination, for that is never Seconded by reason. Next, this Design is not confin’d to poetry;; only protects that, to Secure the Fund for the promoting all manner of useful and polite Studies, which can make a People great or happy. Thirdly, To apply myself to those that are not inclin’d to Poetry, and the other Polite Arts and Sciences, wou’d be to create
Diflicuh
A
( 8?)
Difficulties not s6 easily surmounted, by one fb little known as myself, while those Demonstrations, I have form’d, will come with greater Force and Advantage from a Man of your Lordr ship’s (Quality and Reputation : For the great r est Part of the World judge of the Force of a thing, more from the Condition of the Man, than from its own Energy and Demonstration; and most of our English Stateifinen and Courti -- ers have so peculiar a Path to tread, that to offer anything out of that common Road, is: ^ either to confound them, or raise their Contempt. I am,
My Lord.
y
Your Lprdjiolfs moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
C D.
\
LET
N
>
%
(88)
%
LETTER V
J' '
LOO much Caution in lifining to Proposals of nm Designs defiruelive of Knowledge and Virtue,
My Lord,
I Am not ignorant of the general Contempt our English Great Alen have ever bestowed on the most useful Projects; and Columhm is a plain Instance how little apt our statesmen have been to give Ear to any new Design, by which we then lost the richest and most noble Part of America : But, my Lord, a Man that has any Portion of Understanding, must perceive how absurd a Conduct this is; for if the World hatl been always So averse to new Discoveries, we had now been as barbarous as the most ignorant of our Ancestors. Nay, this Principle is an Enemy to all Knowledge, for no part of that but daily admits an Improvement: And i’m sure, unless our Politics had better Events, we have no reason to be deaf to anything propos’d for their Advantage.
% C j A
■' TIS true, every Age has its peculiar Bent ot Genius; as the last two Centuries almost en thufiasm prevail’d, and this has begun with Follies not less Epidemical, or destructive: But. the Force of one brave Man has often struggl’d through the Follies, baseness, and Ignorance of the Times, and Set his Country, not naturally inclin’d to Arts or Arms, in the foremoil’
( 8?)
most Rank for both. Thebes found this in the Administration of efamlnondm, who lifted her up by his single Virtue above all the l^pub licks of Greece, making her a Match for Athens and Lacedcemon; which Glory she never knew besore nor after his time. Thus Cosmo the Old, and his grandson Loremo di Medici, started up from a private State, and rais’d Florence from a degree of Barbarity and Contempt, almost ruin’d by domestic Factions, to the Power of coping with more than one Italian State at once. The latter uniting the most seditious and divided City in Italy, and during his Life preferv’d that Unity among them, which ended with his Death, to prove that it was only one man’s exerting his own finsular Virtue, that did that
O /
Miracle. The Guelphs and the Gihellmes for the Popes and the Emperors, were not unlike our Factions of Whig and Tory, or Church and dijjen ter; yet by a Political Encouragement of Learning, these two Great Men fupprefs’d them; the latter by a Design not unlike mine, of Toothing the rugged People, and diverting them by Plays, Painting, Music, and the like, from their sullen and malicious Intrigues of Parties, which had before brought their Commonwealth to its last gasp.
. my Lord, if you wou’d exert your Interest, and that noble Spirit so conspicuous in your Lordship, and appear at the Head of Arts and Sciences, and public National Virtues (as by accomplishing the Design I have offer’d, your Lordship easily might) you wou’d inspire another Genius into the English, and stop the
hasty
(5o)
hasty Ruin of your Country. We have the same Factions and Divisions Florence was deliver’d from by Lorenno di Medici; but our public Diverstons are too much sunk in the Opinion of the World, and too obnoxious to that very Party they shou’d chiefly be directed to Soften; nay, they want another Turn, with Something different and more noble than the present, to stir up the Curiosity and Appetite of those who yet frequent them, which my Design will most certainly accomplish, else they must in a few Years fail of course.
But, my Lord, to prove my Assertions from Experience, I shall here quote what Farillas tells us in this particular; He was the Restorer of the Drama, like a true Statefinan encouraging Poetry, to refine and polish his Florentine Fellow Citizens.
“But (as Karillas says) as Lorenu had a nice “Wit in Gallantry, as well as all other things, he fell to the Reforming the Recreations oi “the Carnaval, by making them more ingenkm, “and more capable of being relijh’d hy Persons oj “Honour, * For the better understanding ol what I am going to say, it is to be fuppos’d “that the Factions of the Guelphs and the Gl ‘‘ hellines, by obliging the Florentines to be per“ “in Arms, had introduc’d into their “Sportsabundanceof Libertine Actions, which “savour’d of War; and had at last degenera “ted into Such a Brutality, as made it a Point
“of
* Our very Cafe. '
(9>)
of Honour to avoid ’em; and scandalous to “frequent them : For in these Recreations “the Prizes of their Combats were infamous, “their Feasts to be drunk, their Balls follow’d ** by Prostitution; and thetheatres expos’d no“ “that cou’d he heard with Chaste Ears, “or seen with Innocent Eyes. And to bring
this Reformation afiout, he consulted the “Men of sense of Italy, and So introduc’d “Tragedy, that at once delighted and instruc “ted. The manuscript of the strst of which “is now in the French king’s Library, and “call’d. The Nuptials ojperithous, and the Com ‘‘ bat of Hercules with the Centaurs; adorn’d “with Sculpture, Mustek, Painting, — And “by encouraging these public Shows, he aim’d “at uniting the people’s Minds,
Thus far Faridas; from whence your lord ship may See the Method taken by that Great statesman Loremo di Medici, for the Refining and Uniting a People not less barbarous and divided than the English. And it is plain, that what I have propos’d to your Lordship, is the Same Method that brought Arts to their Perfection in Italy, and heal’d the Hereditary Feuds that rag’d in Florence, though before I had read anything of this Part of that History. I have, my Lord, laid before you the Same counsel the greatest Man Italy ever produc’d, took for the Good and Glory of his Country. The Same that the greatest statesman our Nation ever Saw, Harrington in his Oceana (a most perfect System of Politics) defign’d for Ettg~
land.
( 90
land, in the moil perfect Form of Govcrnmenl he cou’d frame for us. The same that Milun so wish’d, extoll’d, and recommended withfc much Force ev’n when the highest Zeal of fa naticifm domineer’d : In short, my Lord, it is the same that establish’d with So much
Glory in Truwcf, with this Difference, that mine is more perfect, more ektenstve, and more glorious than all of them, and this before I had read an Account of either of them. Which confirms me in the justness of my Foundation and Judgement in this Affair; and gives me the Vanity to believe, that a proposal grounded on Such Experience, Such Authority, and Such Reason, cannot be rejected or slighted without Some Violence to reason : For if there be any Love of Honour, of our Country, or of our Queen in the Court, and in them who possess her Favour, this cannot fail of a Speedy Grant.
The Motives that engag’d Richelieu in a less perfect Design of this nature were, no doubt, his Desire of Glory, the Reputation of his Country, and the Service of his Prince, which are Motives that ought to influence all Men ol your lordship’s Post and Quality to the like Attempts; for nothing can render Great Men worthy the Dignity of their Rank, but Actions as distinguishing as their Titles; Especially in a Country like England, where Popularity is the Way to a just Esteem, and where there is not So profound a Deference paid to mere cjuality, as in France, Spain, and Some other Countries. For indeed, that which first rais’d one Man a above another, is the only just ground of Veneration,
\
(93)
ration, viz. uncommon Actions for the good of the Community; and the more extensive and lasting such Actions are, the more just and firm are their Respect and Popularity. I am,
My Lord.
%
Your lordjhiks moji humble,
and obedient Servant.
a
CD
I
LETTER VI
Arguments for Glory, and the Love of Praise
against a false Humility.
My Lord,
U R Nobility have not enough weigh’d the Nature of Government in general, or of the English in particular; for if the Nobility grow cheap and low in the Eye of the People (as they will surely do, where they neglect distinguishing themselves as much by their Honour as their Titles) by losing their Interest they weaken that Part of the Constitution, which has the Power to do more for the Preservation of the whole, if it kept up the Dignity of the Order, than perhaps all the rest:. And the English on the other Hand always pay more to pcrsonal Worth, than to
Title,
(94)
Title, especially when they stand in Competition. England values itself extremely on be ing a free Nation; and such are seldom won by less than Attempts, at least, at public Actions. The Popularity which arises from thos is noble and desirable, and cannot justly be condemn’d of Vanity out of a false Stoical, oi Christian Humility; (in which pure religiohi Public Examples are often, and emphaticallj recommended) for that can be no Virtue, thai is inconsistent with the Good of Humane So ciety, as that false Humility that contemni Glory is. God made Man a Rational and a Sociable Creature; nay, has put him under so great a necestity of Society, that he cannot fubstst without the Benefits of it. Those, therefore, who promote Doctrines destructive of that Society, muffc be odious to its wise Au' thor Providence, as those are most agreeabls to it, who advance Maxims and Designs moll conducive to the public Good. The false Maxims of Seneca, and those not less pernicious of Uur Monkish recluses, have produc’d very considerable Damages to the Republic of Euroft, and eat' out the Coar and Heart of all public Services; for they are the Refuge of Sloth, and the Source of a mean and private Spirit, Enemies to Society, which can be only preferv’d by Action. The Contempt of Glory is f a Doctrine that promotes Avarice, for those
who look on Reputation as a Bubble, and esteem it a criminal Vanity, will not be over Solicitous of what is laid of them, by that Indifference loosing one guard of Virtue, and one defence against the Assaults of Vice, efpe
Ciall)
\
( 95)
daily Avarice, and the blind pursuit of Riches. For while Seneca wrote against Glory, he amass’d Wealth by base Usury, and Extortion; and while the Monks wrote for Retirement, and against Worldly Dignities, they engross’d the Wealth and Power of Europe.
No Body certainly ought to be indifferent in public Affairs, for every Man being concern’d in the public Good, every Man ought to have a Regard to, and a Zeal for it, since no private Good can be secure, when that of the Public is in danger. A Nobleman particularly ought to have a public Spirit, and be Zealous for the Interest of the Nation, as receiving his (Quality and Title for, and from public Service, and being distinguish’d by public Honours. Nay the false Statefinan, who employs all his Interest in making up to himself a great Estate, ought for his own Security (if he understood it) to promote that of the Public; since without that he can have no safe Enjoyment of even his public Robberies. The Necestity, therefore, and Obligation that every one has to contribute to the public Advantage, or Service, is a fusticient Proof of the Folly and Wickedness of reclule Principles; tho’ the Preference of the active Life to the retir’d, is too evident to need Arguments to convince us; this being confin’d to ourselves, that extended to thousands. This Fhjtl Saw, when he prefer’d the Roman Art of Government to all the Sciences of Greece.
Exetident alii spiranua mouim era, cc.
Tu regen Imferio Populos Romane momento.
The
\96)
The Schools and Gardens of Athens bree only useless Speculations, and were only thf Nurseries of Philosophical Pride; where, whil( the Heads of each Sect were busy in advancing different Summum Bonurns, they loss: the true and solid Good of the Public, in which th( Good of all Particulars was included, and which was never the Aim or Endeavour oj the Gown In any Religion, who, by Preaching up Duties to make us better than Men can be, make us worse than Men might be, If they propos’d Things more within our Compass ana rower. And indeed, the fiilfe Pleasures of Speculation are too lazy and Supine to give a strong or rational Delight. That wnicii stows to a Man of sense from an active Life must be refin’d and vivacious. For how can the stothful Retirement of a Melancholy and Pedantic Life afford half the rational Satisfaction that a Man of Bussness finds in the Success of his Counsels, and Endeavours for the public Good; when he reflects that so many Thousands, that is, his Native Country, depend on, and are happy by his Care, Industry, and Address? Retirement can afford no brisk and lively pleasure, being remov’d from all those Actions and Accidents, that on ly can give it a Relish, which can never be 1^ found in a calm, insipid Inactivity; for Sloth,
at best, can only furnish a bare heavy indo lence, a lazy Tranquillity, without anything ^ .Great or Tranlporting.
jp ‘ Nor is this Preheminence of an active Life ^; merely imaginary, but founded on Reason, in
pc" the Nature of humane Society; for that be:
|:. • ■ ing
W
( 97)
ing built on mutual Afllftance, those, who most contribute to it, must act: most according to reason and the common Security: Whereas, if the selfish reduse Humour should prevail, the Public Security must fall, and by consequence the Private be destroy’d, while every Man directs his whole Care to his own particular, and present mistaken Tranquillity. If Man look’d only on the present, without any Eye on the Future, in what differs he from a Beast or an Idiot? ’tis true indeed, that such a recluse Spirit is never likely to be Universal; yet Spain gives us an undeniable Proof of how pernicious a consequence it may be to the Public; for the vast Efflux of People to the American Conquests, was not more fatal to the Power of Spain, than the overgrown Number of Religious Houses and mo nastries, beyond all Proportion to the rest of the People, where Ib many were daily buried to the public Service. I am,
4
* My Lord,
Your lordfjiks mojl humble,
and obedient Servant,
C D.
r L E T
• ^

«
LETTER VII
/
Against Avarice.
My Lord,
BUT tho’ there is no great fear of tin particular Mode of withdrawing from th Public to the Private in this Protestant King dom, yet there are other Ways not less detrimental to the commonwealth, perhaps more which may, nay, have too much prevail here. For whatever diverts a Man from i public to a private Spirit, must contribute ti ihe common Destruction; and that is th Spirit of Avarice, which has Spread So far II this Nation, for it too efficaciousty promotes i pernicious Principle of Distinction betwixt th public and private Interest; and by a fata Mistake makes Men always sacrifice the firs to the last, which in Time must inevitably de stroy Both. Avarice has the same (if noti far more pernicious) Effect on the Public, a: that melancholy, recluse Temper; for it robi State of as many Members, as there an llpt Persons infected with it; nay, it not onl]
robs the Commonwealth of lo many usefu Members, but by letting up a distinct Interest in them from that of the Public, ere ates fb many dangerous Enemies to it. Anc
I this distinct Interest does greater or less di
mag!
(pp)
mage to the State in proportion to the Post, Quality, and Power of the Avaricious Mart.
For let us suppose a first Minister of State, or Favourite extremely Covetous, and then add to this Supposition a Proposal made to him for the Public Good and Benefit, by which his particular Purse gets little or nothing; out of a Habitude of Court Civility, or unable to contradict Demonstration, he may approve the Design, and give hopes enough of Success to betray a Dependance, but we must never hope, that he will ever have Sincerity enough to accomplish it; for he has too many private Aims and Occasions to make use of his Interest with his Prince for encrealing his own Wealth and Estate, to throw away one Demand for the Public Good. On the other hand, my Lord, give me leave to Suppoie another Proposal made to the same Avaricious Favourite, and that extremely beneficial to himself, but detrimental to the Public, he is not able to refill: the Temptation; the Gold it brings has no Faults, and his Soul being infinitely charm’d with its Beauty, he employs all his fine Arts of Modern Politics to find how he shall enjoy it under some plausible Name of Public Interest or Necestity; which Knack alone has more than once made a man’s Fortune, and advanc’d him from a Projector to a first Minister. Francejco de Patti a Florentine Spend thrift, (more infamous afterwards by his vil lanous Conspiracy against his Country, and the best of Florentines, Lorento di Medici) was introduc’d to Pope Sixm the Fourth for his Dexterity and adshess in finding out new Imposts
F ^ and.
( too)
and Taxes under plausible Titles, and for that Faculty alone was rais’d by that Pope to be a Favourite, and chief Minister of State.
But, my Lord, if you will yet give me leave once again to suppose, that the Gold and address of Some Foreign Prince makes way to this Favourite to betray the Secrets, or to mislead the counsels of his King and Country, what p.esence has he against the powerful Charms of Such a Bribe? His Judgement is blinded by Desire;; only Thing he loves, is offer’d to his Poffefiion; His Virtue (if ever he had any) long since forgot, and Sunk in the Opinion, that it is nothing but a Specious Name, of no farther use than to Serve his Turn, a taking Bait to angle for Trusts, and his greatest Security in betraying of them. How could (I Say) Such a Favourite refuse Selling his Country, if he met with a Prince, that wou’d come to the Price?
That Things of this Nature have been done, and ev’n in our Age and Nation, is a Truth no Man can doubt, that has known the World twenty Years and upwards; but it is’a Truth Safer to controvert, than prove. However, from this Supposition, ray Lord, it will appear, how much more pernicious this private Spirit of Avarice is to the State, than that of Retirement.
of proposals beneficial to the Public I could give various Instances, but I shall confine myself to this, that I have now made to your Lordship; ’tis above Seven Years since I made
it to my Lord -- -- -- --, encourag’d to it by the
Reputation he had obtain’d of being a mighty
Patron
'(loi)
Patron of the Muses, tho’ I experimentally found common Rumour as false in that, as her other Reports. For tho’ he was sofar from rejecting it, (when far from the Perfection your Lordship sees it in) that he receiv’d it with all the Alacrity and Satisfaction imaginable, and with frequent Assurances of a dif patch as speedy as So useful and noble a Design deserv’d j yet, my Lord, after Some Years Attendance, all this Heat and Zeal vanish’d.
But, my Lord, this is a Principle too Sar Spread among our Great Men; the Traders Vice has taken too much hold of them, nay, Avarice is as much more pernicious, as conspicuous in them. They have been too much Slaves to a false Pride, that centres in themselves, that directs all their Thoughts and Actions to the lazy Satisfaction of their own brutal or infamous Inclinations. Their Ostentation and Vanity is confin’d to the narrow Circle of themselves, and cuts them off from the Public more irrationally, than the poor Principles of a recluse Life. For at the Same time, that they run down the generous Vanity of the Greekj and Romans,
their Pride of Noble and Heroic Actions in the Public Service, they would fain swell above the Vulgar with a false Pride of Birth, Title, or Wealth! But if, as the Advocate of Truth, I might have leave to Speak my Mind, I would ask them what Pretence any Man has to Pride, or the preferring himself to another, who does Good to no Man? When, indeed, he ought as little to lue himself, as to expect the Esteem and respect of others? as fuming without Merit, is the last Point of the
F 5 Ri(
()
Ridiculous; for thus Fops, ugly Coquettes, and Poetasters move not our Value, but Laughter and Contempt.
From this Source Springs that poor, tlio’ conceited Content, to fink and pafs away in the common Flood of Mankind, without distinction from the Vulgar; but it is n6 Argument of their wisdom, as contrary to Reason in that Duty incumbent on all public Members of humane Society, but is a Proof of a little ness of Spirit, as well as Sense and Understanding.
Stemata quid factunt? quid prodeji, Pontice, longo
Sanguine cenferi, pibofcpue ojiendere vultta
jaajomm? -- -- -- --
As Juvenal observes, of what value is an ancient, long Pedigree, If the present pocseftor want Personal Merit? ’tis but a smoky Glory existing in Fancy only; but In reality does but heighten our Contempt, and more expose his Folly and Vice. While the Esteem, that flows from public Actions, is firm, just, and extended; that which comes from Title, is precarious, and confin’d to the Hats of their Followers.
Oh! my Lord, what different Principles
had the old Romans?
Omnibus qtv. Patriam confervaverint, adjuverint, auxerint, certm eji in cao dejimtm Locus, uhi Sembiterno Gaudio fuantur beati“ “that have “preferv’d, assisted, o enlarg’d their Coun “try, have a certain and fixed Abode in Hea
- ^ II
ven,
s ^
( 1g3)
** ven, where they will enjoy ail everlasting “Beatitude,
t
Again,
Qm emm pot eji defend per fe Patrid, aut opprejja beatus ejfe‘t. “Who can be happy, that has “either forsaken, or oppress’d his Country ?’* these are Maxims worthy a true Nobleman, worthy a Man, most distinguish’d from a Brute by his Reason, forsaking which, he has no Preheminence above his horse; and indeed the .horse is the nobler Creature, as more justly proud in its usefulness and Action.
’twas the foregoing Principle that gave
Rome her Decij, Camillus, Codes, Reguhis, setpio’s, c. From the Same, in the Corruption of a Modern Age, Sprung the immortal Loremo di Medici, Men given their Nations by Providence, as Blessings worthy the Gift or eternal
Wisdom.
But are the Actions of these great and wise Men of any Authority? or are they only the wild Caprice of enthusiasm?? they founded in reason? or only In Fancy? Is our general neglect of great and public Actions, and blind Zeal for private Benefits more rational, than their Fondness of the first, and Contempt of the last? Or, where those Angular Actions to which the Commonwealth ow’d Its Reputation, Security, and Power, {sdo nomine saps Vincentes, as Ammianui Mdrcellintis observes) truly brave, or not? are they more or less conducive to the Good and happiness of the Pub, 11c, (wblch always includes the Private) than
F 4 our
4
( ^ ^4)
oar private Spirit of inactive Sloth, Avarice, or Retirement? or are they not, indeed, infinitely more conducive to the Welfare of our Country, than our Mechanic Maxims? What Motives have We to do any great or brave Action for the Service of our Prince or State?
4
Money is the whole Aim of our Actions, and Motive of our Endeavours; and that which promises most Gain, is Surest to engage our Attempts. But alas! very few of those Actions, that bring in most Money, are most for the Public Interest; and where a Public Good, and a private Gain contend, the first always loses the Day. An Instance of this is in our Privateers, who will not attack those of the Enemy, because by that they shall get nothing but Blows, tho’ the Destruction of one Privateer is of more Service to the Na. tion, than the taking twenty of the Adversaries Merchants, considering the low value of their Cargoes, the great value of ours, and how many of these may be fuccefifively taken by one Privateer; the Destruction of which is of more use to the Public than all their paltry Merchantmen, as Securing our Trade and Commerce; but this brings not the Same Profit into the Adventurers Hands, and we understand not the Principles of Sacrificing private Gain to public Good.
Mr. dennis’s Design would have obviated all these Difficulties, but the Neglect of that was Surprising to all true engujhmen; but to So wretched a Degree are we fain, and so nigh the very brink of Ruin, that to disappoint
the
( i)
the Success of any Design, it is Sufficient only that it be feasible, and much for the public Benefit. I am
*
My Lord,
Your lordjhlks moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
CD
LETTER VIIL
Our Hopes from his Lordship, who by this De.
Jtgn may cure those Evils,
My Lord,
T.D the midst of this melancholy Considers- -- ** your Lordship presents yourself as; our. only Hope : In you, my Lord, I am confident, the Spirit as well as Knowledge of a true Nobleman yet lives, the exerting which ^ would furnish a Light to disperse that dark ness, which blinds too many of most of our foremost Ranks.
If our Nobility do not lead the Way, it may perhaps be more difficult to reform the People 5, but with them it is most easy, because the con spicuousness of their Dignity and Title being advanc’d, and shade glorious by Virtue and ' public Merit, would have a vast influence on the People, who being by that taught a just;
F 5 : Ash. •
*• \
( io)
Veneration for your Order, their Veneration would naturally beget Imitation. So that, my Lord, your Lordship sees, that there is no more likely way to spread a public Spirit among us, than by your lordship’s exerting yours; for the Awfulness of the Solemnity ot doing it by this Proposal, would run it into a Mode, and then every one would struggle, which should first get into the Fashion.
This I am Sure would Succeed, if our Noblemen were acquainted with the Sentiments of the People about them; but alas! t’ney are not sensible how much their Conduct has lost their Interest in their respective Countries, as I could prove from a Man of the first Rank for Dignity and Estate, who has not so much Interest, as a Gentleman of Three Hundred Pounds a Year. For his excessive Avarice cuts off all Means of Popularity; that Vice naturally Squeezing all the Faculties of the Soul into a very narrow Compass;; getting Money being the whole Aim of the avaricious Mind, it destroys all that, which should render Men truly valuable, that is, truly noble and distinguish’d from the common Rank. For co vetoushess is not distinguishing; a Cobbler that is covetous, is as cautious, parfimonlous, and griping In his Small Stock, as the Citizien, or Lord in their greater. Prodigality is preferable to Avarice, as more beneficial to the Public; for in th Is the prosufion of one promotes the Advantage of many, while the Avarice of one destroys abundance, who would elfe be useful to the State. It naturally directs its Votaries to the Performance of poor
and
()
and little Actions, which as naturally produce Abhorrence and Contempt in the generality of Mankind; and it is a hard Matter in our Age (where Reason has obtain’d so great a Liberty) to persuade Men, that the Prince can give a real Value for that, which Reason and Nature command our Contempt of.
Besides, it is the most irrational and foolish
of Vices. -- -- Amassing and heaping up money
to obtain pow’r, Interest, Glory, and the like, may plead some Excuse, because these Is an End propos’d; but to rake it together, merely to have Mountains of Gold by one, is a preposterous Desire to be among Feasts and Banquets, without any Appetite or Stomach. I would fain know whether that Man, who pro -- poses no rational End and Aim of his Actions,
Can deserve the Name of a Man, or rational Creature? nay, he must be below a Brute, for a Brute acts not without Design, directing all its Actions either to Preservation or Propagation of its Being and Kind. Now I challenge
O ^ ‘
all the Devotees of Avarice, to lay down any rational End of their Desires and Endeavours; is that then worthy a Man of (^ality, which is unworthy a Man?
But this is too large a Theme thoroughly to discuss In this Place; it must fusslce to say, that there is no Vice more destructive to humane Society, and the good of all public Communities; which made ty^z/ct/hn his ingenious Oration to Julius Caesar de Ordinanda tlepulolica,
or of his reforming the State of Rom?, recommend a necefsary and absolute Discouragement of the Love of Money, as most pernicious to
F 6 hi s
0
(io)
f
his Service, and most destructive of the State and Happiness of Rome; and very reasonably too, Since no Member of the Commonwealth can love anything beneficial to the Public, that is lost in So infamous a Passion. For how can he act like a Man, who always thinks like a Child? How can he have those noble Sentiments, which your Lordship express’d after your perusal of my first Paper, vit. That if your Life were required, you would joysully resign it to establish So usesul and So noble a Design, So much for your country’s Honour
and Benefit? -- -- This was a Saying, my Lord,
worthy an old Roman, worthy a Mcecenas, Rich iteu, Lorento M Media, worthy a true Patriot, worthy, my Lord, of him that Spoke it. It sprung from a Principle above the great Money Changers of the Times, and which none but a Poet could be Master of.
I shall not, my Lord, trouble your lord ship with more on a Subject, So little to my present purpose to ensorce, which only now challeng’d my Remark, as a National Vice too shngerous, and too common, not to be an Object of our Reformation in order to the happiness of our Country, which is aim’d at by the Propofiil which yet lies before your lord ship. I am.
My Lord,
^ •
few lordjhip’s moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
C n
(lop)
LETTER IX
of the Degeneracy of the Paste of our Great
Men in their Pleasures.
My Lord.
But this is not the only Argument of the Degeneracy of the Great Men; the Depravity of their Taste in Pleasure is perhaps yet a greater Proof.
A hundred Years ago, there were about live or six play houfes in this Town, (which then was far less Populous than it is now) all frequented, and full, tho’ the Stage was yet in its rude uncultivated Dress, without Art In the Poet, or in the Decorations, and only Supported by the lower Sort of People. Yet, my Lord, these lower Sort of People had Souls enough to be diverted by the naked and unor namental Drama.
But In our Times the Great Men, who should In Reason have been the Guards and Supporters of the, noblest Diversion, that the Wit of man.can invent, which at once Instructs and transports the Soul, were the first that con fplr’d Its Ruin, by prodigal Subfcrlptions for Squeaking and capering Monfieurs. And
the more Infamousty to distinguish their poor and mean Diversions from these more noble of the Public, they wou’d have no Play at all mingled with them, lest the World, should .think,
tkat
0 9
(no
\
they paid any Deference to Wit and Sense, or that their Satisfaction and Delight reach’d farther, than their Eyes or Ears. And yet to show their wretched Taste, ev’n in those they were generally pleas’d with what shock’d a nice Ear, and could not divert a curious Eye For the hest of French Dancers are without Variety; sheir Steps, their Postures, their ri stngs are perpetually the Same, and all without any Meaning or Design;; a French Dancer is at best but a graceful Mover, full of a brisk and senseless Activity, unworthy the Eye of a Man of Sense, who can take no Pleasure worth attending, in which the Mind has not a considerable share.
Were our Modern Dancers like the Mimes and Pantoinimes of Rome, our Dotage would be excufeable. For one of them in a Dance by himself, by the variety of his Motions and Gesticulations, would represent a whole his tory with variety of Persons, and that so very evidently, that a King of Perjia feeing one of them, beg’d him of Nero for an Interpreter to the Several Nations and Tongues he had to do with; since his Action was a universal Language, intelligible to all.
In this something must strike the Mind, and rationally entertain it, every Action depending on another, and all directed to one End. But to be fond of our Modern Dancing, is still to be Children, and pleas’d with a Rattle that makes always the same Noise. All that can be said of Ballon (or any French Dancer of more Reputation) is, that his Motion is easy and graceful, the Figures he throws his Body into
fine,
(” 0
fine, and that he rises high with Freedom and Strength 5 the whole in short is, that he is an active Man. But is that, or wou’d indeed the Roman Pantomimes be a sufficient Balance against the Drama to any Man of common Sense?? ^
own, their excuse is greater in their Indulgence of Music in their Subscriptions for Italian Singers. Yet to be drawn wholly by Sound, tho’ never so harmonious, is neither the greatest or justest praise. Yet It is certain that Music has an Intrinsic Value, discovering a Power not to be resisted. But then this' Power is heighten’d by the Addition of Poetry, and passionate Words give a double Force to Harmony, and make it a Surer Way to the Heart, than when the Soul is not So fully concern’d In the bare Notes; and Vocal Music Is agreed by all the noblest and most touching; that Tone being most excellent, which comes nearest to Vocal Sounds.
Music therefore ought still, as originally. it was, to be mingled with the Drama, where it Is suhservient to Poetry, and comes in to the Relief of the Mind, when that has been long intense on some noble Scene of passion;; ought never to be a separate Entertainment of any length.
I give these Allowances, my Lord, only in consideration of good Music, Vocal or Instrumental, to which those of the 15001. Subscriptions have not the least Pretence, as being the disgrace of Music. But having heard in Italy, what Bubbles we Ttamontam were in their
Foreign
\
C
()
Foreign Trash, ventur’d o’re the Alps to share the Prize.
Hence, my Lord, appears the Degeneracy of the Age, especially of the Great Men, who were the Setters' up, and Encouragers of this paltry Diversion. They can with no Shadow of Reason or Justice urge, that our present Plays are worse, than those of loo Years ago, for that wou’d be too palpable an Instance of their profound Ignorance, or extravagant Prejudice, which is below a Man of Judgement and Sense; as may easily be made appear in Tragedy only, of which we are scarce yet arriv’d to a just Notion. Nor was there much of Comedy known before Ben Johnson;; no Man can allow any of Shakyfpeads, Comedies, except the Merry W ives of jfindfor. There ate indeed excellent Humours fcatter’d about and interwoven in his other Plays; but Ben Johnson was the first, that ever gave us a true entire Comedy. Since him we have had Etheridge, Wicherly, Shadwel, and Crown in some of his Plays, with the rest of King Charleds Reigiii Since that Mr. Congreve in two Plays has merited praise, and in one of them very well distinguish’d his Characters, and hit true Humour. Mr. Dennis has excell’d in. Comedy in the Plot and no Plot, and in Iphigeniain Tragedy j and Mr. fanhrookh^s shown abundance of rude, ill conducted, and unartful Nature. His Dialogue ge r nerally is Dramatic and easy; he is I suppose no Scholar, and has run on Some monstrous Absurdities in Conduct and Manners, which want' of Skill in his Art has thrown him on. After these, our very Farcewrights deserve more ESTEEM,
;
(ii)
teem, than the taking Plays of an hundred Years ago, as having as much Nature, more Design and Conduct, and more Wit.
\^ence it appears that the Stage wou’d now meet with as much Encouragement, if our Audience of the Great Men had as much Soul, Force, sense and Spirit, as the Vulgar had then : Or if they! cou’d themselves distinguish betwixt Good and Bad, So far as to encourage the Good, and explode the Bad, they would Soon have Plays more worthy the em^ lijh Genius; but while they do directly the contrary, we must every Day expect worse, since no Man of Sense wou’d expose his Reputation to So Scandalous a Censure.
This, with what I have already Said of the Degeneracy of the Nation, is enough, I hope, to move your Lordship to fly to its rescue, and flop its haftshing Fall. I am,
My Lord,
Yom Lordfiif s most humble,
and. obedient Servant,
C D.
f
L E T
(ii)
LETTER X
Degeneracy produces a certain, though not always a
speedy Ruin to a State,
f
My Lord,
But it may be objected in defence of the Degeneracy and Vice of the Politics of these Times, that we compass our Ends of Government, as well as the Greekj and Romms of old, or any of our contemporary Moderns. I might answer in the Negative, that we do not compass our Ends so well as either; nay, I may say cannot, for while private Interest here delays public Dispatches and Counsels, we often lose Opportunities, which, the Enemy gaining, are never to be retriev’d, which in Time will, nay must inevitably ruin us. Next it is true Indeed, that we have People executing Such and Such Places and Offices, and that not withftandlng the general Corruption of these Officers, the bufiness of these Offices Is in Some Manner done; and by consequence, that our private Interest has the Same Effect with us, as the public Spirit had with the Ancients, and other less degenerate People at this Time. Yet first— — prevailing in our Ministers and Officers, that exposes them to Bribes, and by those to betray their Trusts and the Nation, And this is plain in the Victualling office, where corrupt Negligence, or Avarice
has
(lo)
has done the Nation irreparable Damage at Sea 5 the ill Conduct: towards, or Oppression of the Seamen in the public Service, discourages them from it, making them rather take up with the French, than undergo the Harid" Ships at Home in the Service of their oi^n Prince. Next, the avaricious discharge of these Offices, makes Men of Spirit and Bravery, who cannot brook the Slavish Treatment they meet with from Such Hands, for sake the Service of the Public, or elfe, which is worse, join in cheating it in their owrt Defence. For no Man ever yet attempted to do Justice to the Public, by difeovering the Cheats of these Officers, but was ruin’d by them, the Usefulness and Honesty of the Undertaking not furnishing them with Patrons seven in the Parliaments) to defend them against the Power, Interest, and Money of the Offenders; for tho’ an Impunity in robbing the Public be a very great Encouragement to the Robbers, yet the Oppression of all those who attempt their Punishment, puts away all Thoughts of returning to their Duty, being so secure, nay perhaps only Safe in the Breach of It. And tho’ by the Strength of our Constitution deriv’d down to us from our robust Ancestors, the natural Wealth of the Nation, and the Number and Courage of her People, we may a little while withstand a total sub verfion, yet these Evils daily encreassng, must in a few Years entirely ruin us: For, like a robust person, trusting to the strength of our Body, our Constitution bears up awhile against all the Attacks of a debauch’d and dlforderly
Life,
(116)
Life, yet at last that gives way on the sudden, and perishes all at once.
A sure and lamentable Proof of my Speculation, is the late Address of the House of Commons, enough to evidence the Truth of the Fact, and the Certainty of our Ruin, if not ipeedily prevented.
I might instance the public loss by Trade purely by the Interest of private Men who gain by it; but it would be too long for this Place, as well as the Source and Remedy of all these Evils, which cannot be compals’d So easily, as by the Establishment of my proposal, and the consequences of it.
I shou’d too here show your Lordship a Draught of the State of Rotne, when prepar’d by false Pride, Luxury and Avarice, for that certain and Speedy Ruin, which came upon it, as admirably painted by Atnmianw mar cellinu^ in his XIV Book, but that it is too long for this Place. Where he shows what Virtues raised the Roman State to its iramense pow’r, and what Vices prevail’d among the Nobility and People in its Decay. The Great Men of Rome in its Declension were proud of their Equipage, Buildings, vast Revenues, and the like, never reflecting, that Falerim puhlico la was buried at the public Charge; the Widow and Children of Regulm maintain’d by his Friends, and the Portion of scipio’s Daughter paid her Husband by the State; the later Romans plac’d all their Pride and Glory in themselves and Retinue, wholly Sorgetting those Virtues, that fix’d Such a Force to the Roman Name, that ev’n then preserv’d their Luxury
and
(ll?)
and Fdly. But they soon felt the conse quence; for in an Age or two they sunk under, and were overrun by barbarous Nations, that their Ancestors contemn’d. Gaming, Drinking, Feasting, Mimes, Dancers, Singers, Eunuchs, and the like, were their Pride, and their Pleasures, of which every Man of Figure had whole Bands in his Train. The common People, by their Example, were as idle as debauch’d, by which they lost all Greatness of Mind, all Military Virtue, and in the End their Empire.
In England too, we have had Instances of another Sort of a Spirit among our Nobility, as vshen Edward the Black Prince was a Terror to France, he bestowed 500 Marks per Annum on the Lord audaey, after his Service in the Battle of poibiers or crejjy, which Lord immediately gave the Royal Present among his four Squires, who fought bravely with him; which being carried to the Prince by some Court informers, as a flight of his Gift; my Lord was sent for, and own’d the Fact in Terms to this purpose : May it please your highness, these four Gentlemen behav’d themselves better than myself, and deserv’d the, Reward I have given them, and bless’d be God I have Estate enough to enjoy all 1 desire. The Prince, touch’d with his Generosity, confirm’d his Donation, and gave ray Lord Fi ve Hundred more for himself. These are Actions worthy an English Prince, and worthy ' an English Nobleman.
But
(” »)
But now, like the Roman Nobility in the Time of Ammianm yiarcellinm, our (shality distinguish themselves generally speaking (for I am far from including that illustrious Body, of which many are yet, and would be more worthy their Titles and Esteem) either by excessive Avarice, or Prodigality. Their Quality they urge, as a Defence against their lawful Debts, or as a Bar against the Course of Law: They either swell with the Vanity of an ancient Family, or the Greatness of their Estate and Wealth. A French Fiddler, or a french Valet is generally their Favourite, for they are often so bad Englishmen to prefer any Foreigner to a Native, tho’ they are generally inhnitely worse;; the Foreigner makes up his Defects by Impudence and Fawning. I remember, that Euripides in one of his Fragments says, that he, who loves the Manners and Fashions of another Country, has ev’n in that betray’d his own. If we should judge our Great Men by that Rule, (which is very well grounded, if justly weigh’d) how many Traitors shou’d we find ev’n among our Legistators? I have observ’d that Men of Letters, Wit and sense, are Seldom encourag’d and entertain’d by our Quality, whereas if they were, they wou’d be more justly serv’d, and get more Reputation by their Conduct. A Man of true sense must be an honest Man, and by consequence would not abuse his master’s Ear, to the loss of his Credit or Interest. For there are a great many of Figure in the World, that are So govern’d by their Servants, as to have
nothing
(IIP)
nothing but the formal Name of Masters left them, by that Means making themselves a Jest to the World, and a Property to their Domestics. I am,
My Lord.
Your lordjhip*s mojl humble,
and obedient Servant,
CD
LETTER XL
Address to my Lord to remedy all these Dvils^
by ejiabltjhing this Design.
My Lord,
B U T, my Lord, it is not the Business ot this Time or Place, to draw So just and rigorous a Picture of too many of our Quality, as I easily could; most of whose Follies wou’d vanish in the Imitation of your lord ship, if you wou’d exert those noble Maxims, of which your Lordship is Master, into Action, in the Accomplishment of only this one Design, on which so many depend of that extraordinary Use to the Public, that, my Lord, you might live to see the English Name more glorious by your lordship’s Means, than ever it has been since a Nation. If England be now too barbarous, as all Men of Sense must with
tiy. your
4
( 120)
your Lordship agree it is, it is now in your lordship’s Power to civilise and polish it, by being zealous and active in this Affair. In short, my Lord, on You the Genius of your Country calls; to You she sends out her tender and expiring Complaints; from You she begs Security from impending Ruin. To You the Glory and Safety of England (your native Soil, a Name dear to the moil barbarous) comes with suppliant Hands, imploring your Help and your Interest. On You, my Lord, Posterity calls to prevent those Miseries, they must elfe be born to; Nay, on You, Nature and Reason depend for their Right, and Heaven itself, which is always delighted with Deeds be neficial to humane Society, challenges this Return from your Lordship for that sense, that for tune; and that Interest it has given you with your Prince, to exert it all sofar, as to accomplish a Thing, that evidently tends to the Safety, Glory, and Happiness or that Nation, of which your Lordship is So very considerable a Member.
Were the Difficulty greater by infinite Degrees, than it now is, yet, my Lord, a Genius like your lordship’s might easily Surmount it; whereas, here is nothing requir’d but your lordship’s Speaking to the Queen, and bringing over a few Noblemen to assent to a Demonstration, who would think your lordship’s Authority Sufficient. I am.
My Lord,
Your lordjhip’s moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
C D.
4
(il)
X
LETTER XII
One Man of Virtue and Resolution can raise
a Nation from Contempt to Glory,
And the Conclusion of the whole.
My Lord,
IS true, as I have already obferv’d, that
A your Lordship has not so arbitrary a dispofal of Things here, as Richtheu had in France; yet, my Lord, give me leave to say, it is in your Power to do this, by exerting that Interest you have.
How much the Resolution of one Man can do, tho’ a Subject, is plain from Lorento di Medici, a Nobleman of Florence, who on the Death of his Father Pierro, (a Man of small Parts, and maintaining his Authority perfectly on his father’s Reputation) was left scarce seventeen Years old, In the midst of dangerous Wars of the State, and more dangerous Factions against his own housf, and yet overcame them all by the Force of his own Genius.
“Of all the Houses shays farill.ts) that now *' bear Sovereign Sway, there is not one, that “has been reduc’d to stranger Extremities
“than that of the Medici, nor was that ever “So, near Ruin, as in the Conjuncture,
“when young Lorento became its Head. The “vast Expenses he was oblig’d to be at,
“equal’d the great Fortune his Father left
G him.
(>20-
him. He became the Head of his Family “and one of the most considerable Citizens o “Florence, at an Age when others require feve “ral Years a Guardian; and his Youth was al “most equally defpifeable to his Friends ant “Enemies. He found himself engag’d in! “War, for the Support of which, all his He “reditary Wealth was too small;; whicl “was worse, this War feem’d to threaten Con “sequences of a longer Date, since the repub lick of Venice was concern’d in it.
“Besides the declar’d Enemies of his House“ “appear’d Twenty thousand strong in th( Field, there were abundance both in the tuj “State, and in the City of Florence, thai “were as much to be fear’d. The Murmur! of the People had already shown how weary they were of the War, before they had fuf “fer’d any Inconvenience from it, and gave out, that they wou’d make their Peace at the “Expense of those who had been the Cause or Pretext of the Discord“
“Auxiliary Troops thought their Engagement ended by the Death of Pierro di Medici, and acted so faintly, that it was easy“ “guess, that they expefled speedily to be “recall’d. The Gonfalonier, and the Under “Magistrates, began to despair of maintaining ’ the'war, and did not believe they were
“powerful enough to keep the Factions in “Obedience. The Friends of the House of “Medici had newly lost the Foundation of theit Union in the Person ot Pierro, and durst no “longer act in concert, out of an Opinion they “had of one another, that each was managing
“his
/
A
(*»3)
his Accommodation apart. In few wordsj, “the Danger was so great, and feem’d so inevitable, that there needed the utmost Endea “yours of the most heroic, and confum “mate Virtue, to vanquish so many Difficult « ties.
“Nevertheless, Lorento di Media, as a Proof
of his Judgement, Resolution and Force, un “dertook it. History fupply’d his Want of ^ proper Experience, and he loon shew’d him“ “a Man that wou’d fill the Place both of ** his Father and Grandfather. Thus far eh rill as.
In the midst of these Difficulties, my Lord, and coming so early to the Management of Public Affairs, the little Wits of Folterra, for his Progress in polite Learning, and his Studies under Angelm poutianm, lampoon’d him, because Learning was not then usual among the Italian Noblemen j yet by the Assistance of this, in the height of this Struggle of State, and Crisis of the Fortune of his Family, he utterly destroy’d the Pitti under their Venetian General coguone. And notwithstanding the sordid Jests of the ignorant Eb'imvze on a nobleman’s Learning, in his Time he restor’d it to that Reputation, that his Master Politian had 500 young Gentlemen of Quality at a time, that waited on him from his Houle to his School, and thence Home again.
He founded the University of Pisa, and by large Benefices and Rewards drew thither Men of Learning in sill polite Arts and Sciences, and, as a Spur to Emulation, fix’d Prizes for the best Performers.
G z Farillas
( 124)
farillu asserts, that there were better Painters, Sculptors and Architects in loremo’s time, than in Old Greece, by his Encouragement of Alberti, who commented on Fitruvim, and improv’d Optics in Painting. Loremo got together all Monuments of Antiquity for their improvement, as well as the moss: excellent mas ters, to train up, and instruct all that wou’d study those three Arts; providing for those who
had not Money, for he never far’d his Purje in anything that cou’d lift him above the Vulgar. The Works of the Learners were brought to the Test, examin’d by the Masters, and the Faults, which rob’d them of persection, pointed fairly out. Emulation was kept up, which encreas’d Industry and persection of each Art. In this School Michael Angelo improv’d himself So early to that degree, that at Nineteen his Copy of an Original was So wonderful, that they cou’d not be distinguish’d.
He fix’d a Design of Physical and Astronomical Experiments : He persuaded the Florentines to build Schools for the Firtuof, and Settled Pensions on them himself. To him we owe all the manuscripts brought from conftan tinople, when that City was taken by the Turks. He was not content to caress the muses, and receive them Srequently at his Table, ( as the Kings of Naples and Hungary did at that time) but took care to exercise each in his properta lent, and gave them Spirit from his ownexample. He wrote Odes, Sonnets, Letters of Gallantry, a Dialogue of the Nature of Love, c. without any Imputation to his Gravity or his Politics. And tho’ these, as well as his Book to
his
(i25)
his Son, are lost; yet Paulas Jovm. who had seen them, makes them equal to the best Performances of that Age. If we confider th Wars, the Negotiations of State he manag’d, the Conspiracies he efcap’d and defeated, the Factions he quell’d, etr'c. we shou’d think he had no time on his hands to regard Arts and Sciences; yet if we confider his Zeal for these, and the Advantages they all deriv’d from him, one wou’d think his whole time spent in cultivating the Muses, and all this in a very little time, for he died at Forty three.
By his own Virtue, in the private State of a Subject, without any Post in the Government, he rais’d his Reputation to such a height, that all the Italian Princes paid an entire Deference to his Merit: Bajatet II Emperor of the Turfs, Sent to him to testify his Value for his Virtue; and Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary, Sent a Solemn Embassy to hiin. The famous Cayte Bey, Soldan of Egypt, Sent him Such magnificent presents, as no Prince had Seen since the Fall of the Roman Empire.
Oh! my Lord! which is more reasonable, which more desirable to a Man, a Life liketo rento’s, Spent in Action for the Public Good, his country’s Service, and his own Immortal Glory; or a Sordid, narrow, stothful Age, stream’d out in a stupid Inactivity? If it is not in all Great men’s Power to do what Lorento did, it is in all to attempt Something like it; and the Surest way not to attain what he did, is to perswade one’s Self that one can’t, for that cuts off all Industry and Attempts : And I can -- not, while I am Master of reason, but believe
G 3 that
(126)
that more Great Men have a heavier Account for neglecting to use their Interest for the Benefit of their Country, than for all their other Crimes put together; .Dis betraying a Trust put into their hands by God and Nature.
Such was not Loremo di Medici, whose Actions in this Nature, So contrary to those of our Great Men, are justify’d by the Success of his Counsels, and the universal Approbation of Europe.
In short, as he was a Man of Letters, folie had Parts equal to his Learning, which join’d, enabled him to make such a Figure in Italy, both in Peace and War, that he always gain’d his Point, and surmounted all Difficulties, not only of the patti’s Conspiracy, but the united and open Forces of the Church and Naples, the Church and Fenice, cc. And as by his own single Virtue he freed Florence from impending Ruin in the War with Sxtm IV and Naples; folie by the same refcu’d Ferrara, and the young Duke of Mantua, from the Ambition of that Prelate, in so Masterly a manner, that It at once disappointed and tnortify’d his holiness, by frightning him with summoning a Council, the Test of which Sixtm IV cou’d by no means think of standing. These succefises of Lorento are the more remarkable, for being at a time when Learning was a Disgrace, and for which he himself had been lampoon’d, as I have said. Though indeed a Stateirnan that Is not perfectly vers’d in History, must be a mere Dabler in Politics; and the Success of his counsels, if they ever have any, must be like Empiric Cures, owing rather to Chance, or the Constitution
t 127 j
tutlon of the Patient, than to his Art L He does in Politics, as some do in Religion, veil h is Ignorance under Arcana, or Mysteries. Lorento was qualisy’d in another manner; he was a perfect Master of the Constitution of the Government, and People of his own Country ^ thoroughly skill’d in the Inclinations, Intereits, Strengths and weaknesses of his Neighbours, nicely vers’d in History, ancient and modern; was furnish’d with aperfpicacity, Readiness of Appreheniion, Address, and an inviolable Honour, Royal Liberality; and was a zealous Encourager of those Arts and Sciences from whence most of these Perfections proceed, and by which the rest are confirm’d, and grow fix’d and robust. As he Immediately apprehended what was beneficial for the Public, So he never wanted resolution to attempt the Execution of it; and all the Inconveniences and Difficulties that oppos’d it, serv’d only to whet his indus try to accomplish it. He had a Solid Judgement, and a Sprightly Imagination; was a Scholar himself, and Founder of an Academy of the politer Studies, though not So perfect as what I propose to your Lordship. I wish too many of OMT Englidj Statesmen had not been more like his Contemporaries than him; for they neither knew nor Saw anything but the present, and judg’d of present Emergencies from their own Inclinations, or private Interest; or by some ill digested Maxims of Machiavel, which, for want of Experience and History, they never understood, and by consequence always misapply’d; for he that know's not the Proof of Political Problems from History, will do with them as
G 4. some
(128)
Some Poetasters do with the Rules in Poetry, pretending to write regularly by Rules wrong understood, and So compose a Piece agreeable neither to the Critic, nor the Town.
Burr, my Lord, So good a statesman as your Lordship, and So every way qualify’d for a generous Rival of Lorento, cannot but be struck with the great Actions of his Life, and prefer the Reputation he had before all the poor Pride, and narrow Aims of our mistaken Great Men. No more reasonable, no more noble, nor any more feasible Means can be propos’d for your lordship’s arriving to the greatest Esteem of all the present and futur e Learned World, and indeed of all Mankind that can think, and shall know the Affair.
, Should!, my Lord, multiply Words as long as my Zeal for this cause would furnish me, I might be tedious, but I could ne’er be filent. But to avoid that tediousness, I fear I have already incur’d, I shall only add, that if aster all I have Said, your Lordship may have any reasons yet to deter and stacken your Zeal in this cause; I only beg your Lordship to enable me to bring it into Such a forwardness, that your Lordship may have no Trouble but a Word or two to give it the finishing Stroke. lam.
My Lord,
Your lord/hip’s moji humble,
and obedient Servaitt,
0
C D.
Well,
( 129)
Well, Gentlemen, ( said I) what think you of this Packet? For my part (said the Baron) they please me very much; but I am surpriz’d that So much reason has found So little Effect in the promoting of So Public Spirited a Design. That (affur’d the Chevalier) ought to be no Surprise in this Nation : It had been a greater cause of Wonder if the Undertaker had Succeeded. Little Projects for private Gain everyday carry their Point; and a Patent is Seldom refus’d to those who Seek it on the least
probable Grounds.
I dare affure you, (Said Downright) that whatever Success other Inventions may have, nothing that is merely for the Advantage of Arts will ever do here, till Some Man of pow’r arise with the Genius and Spirit of Sir Philip Sidney.
Here the Servant came in, and let us know that Supper was on the Table; on which, we adjourn’d our Inquiry till the next Day after Dinner.
The End of the Second Book.
%
• •, *
t
G 5 BOOK
A
%
(ijo)
BOOK m.
^J0^D0|^|HE next Day after Dinner, han
T n ving first drank a cheerful Glafi O © oboher, we went on with our
LETTER 1.
A Learned Controversy between Adam Pumpkin a Gardener, and Alexander Gerund a Country school mafier.
To Mr. Roberts, at his Lodgings at the Sign of the Mitre in fleefjireeti London.
My Friend Bob,
WHILE your Town is fill’d with the
scolding Controversies of the Learned, I venture to send you one that has lately happen’d between a Gardener of our Parish,
rllh, and the school mafter. Which of the two was the aggresfor in the Quarrel, I do not certainly know, each laying the Blame on his ad verfary. But whatever may have pad before by Word of Mouth, is from the present Purpose, since it is evident that Genmd gave the mil Attack in writing, sure of the Victory ashe imagin’d, because Adam cou’d not reply by, way of Pen and Ink, as not being able to write down his own Defence. However, that was a Defect which he fupply’d by the Afififtance of the Clerk of the Parish, who makes his Addresses to his Daughter Maudlin; by which means I have the Power of sending you his Ar— — to the proud Pedagogue. How this dispute will end, I know not, both fides being obstinate, and utterly averse to any Accommodation. If they go on in the Same manner, I shall take care to Send you what their Indignations shall produce, as very fit to be made a Part in a Collection of the Argumentations of the
Times. I am
Yours to command,
Samuel Oddlove;
Adam, thou ignorant Del ver, be not proud' that I vouchsafe to write to thee, for it is to thy Confusion. Stop that noisy Tongue of thine, nor lose any more of thy Time in railing at Learning, and particularly at us who are the Teachers of it, for thou dost: but kick against the Pricks, and bringst no Advantage either to thyself, or thy cause : I dare be confident that not an old Woman in the Parish will ever
G 6 be
(132)
be So far thy Convert as to think the worse of fny Occupation, or the better of thine, or put us two on the Same toot for Excellence.
Great Princes have been school matters, and the World grows wise by our Instructions: : utterly to confound thee, Hercules himself was but an itinerant school matter, who, travelling from Town to Town, inttructed the People, so that all the Montters he kill’d, was Ignorance in Several Shapes. Homer was a school mafter of Smyrna, where they yet keep his Picture; and there writ a fine Romance, or Story Book, in Greek^yerfe, much finer than haentine’s Orfon, or the Seven Champions of Christendom, which he taught his Scholars, till a gardiner’s Son stole his verses away, and run into Greece with them, and Set up fov himsels; which was the ' Occasion of Homer s Travels to .find him out, and get his Book again; and this gave pretence for So many Cities striving for the Honour of h s Birth. But we have yet had greater Men of our Profession;; after he had conquer’d Troy, being cast away on the ’neapolitan Coast, Set up a School, and there had for his Scholar Petromm Arbiter, who in Gratitude mentions him in his facetious Book of Tales, written in excellent Latin in the time of Nero Emperor of Rome.
What xnzsdionyfim, but a great Prince, who, when his rebellious Subjects bad driven him from his Throne, went to Athens, and as the nearest Dignity to a King, chose to setup a School? where he had Such success, that he was chosen Parliament Man for that State;
and was actually one of the Areopagus when St.
’ Paul
ti33;
Paul converted him to chrijuanity, in which he prov’d so zealous, as to go and preach the gospel in France, and in the Massacre of Parts had his Head cut off; but he taking it up in his Hand, walk’d away as Sar as St. Dennu, where he had a Mind to be buried, and has ever since been the Patron of France, all whose Kings are buried in the very Same Place. When will a Gardener arrive at that Honour? What should I mention more? Socrates was a school mafter, and had Alcihiades, Zenophon, Plato, and others to his Scholars; but being forc’d to fly from a conspiracy of the Gardiners, who always hated Learning, he escap’d to confian tinople, and there Set up a School, and writ part of the Ecclefiajiical Hifiory which is yet extant. Quintilian and Seneca were Schoolmasters inrome, the latter had the great Emperor Nero for his Scholar, who burnt Rome only to have the Honour of rebuilding it of Marble; but a Gardener getting into his Favour in the sixth Year of his Reign, he put his Mailer Seneca to Death. For whom St. had that Veneration, that he pray’d so heartily for him, that he was carried by a Sort of hahe.ts Corpus from Hell to Heaven, and left all the Gardiners behind him with the Devil. But what do I talk of this? Did not Adam, the first Man who was a Gardener, damn all Mankind, and brought Such a universal Ignorance on his Race, that it has been the bufiness of the Schoolmaster to endeavour to remedy this Evil ever since??

V ^ 34 /
To mention' oruum,, Prifdan,. pu!emon, and a long Catalogue of Roman Schoolmasters, would be to make my Letter a Volume. I need it not, my Cause requires it not, and therefore I Shall conclude with a Saying of an eminent Roman Schoolmaster, call’d Cicero,
Cedant Arma Toys,, concedat Laurea Linguae,
Let the pruning Knife give Place to
the nightgown, and a Salad to a Neats“ “
Now, Adam, hang thyself in despair, which is the hearty Wish of
I
k
Alexander Gerund.
* % ^ _ _ ■ ^ - ______ ___.. .___~
L E T
1135)
/
LETTER II
An Answer to the foregoing..
Sawny Gerund.
Thou hast reckon’d without.thine Host;.
when thou didst think to confound me with thy Epistle, which 1 shall in few Words confute, and show thee to be a very lying acs. For first, Hercules was no Schoolmaster,, but a good lusty raw bon’d Fellow, and could do a better day’s Work than most of his Time, and therefore was employ’d by an eminent Gardener, to cleanse his Stable, and dung his Ground; but then asking more Hire than au gceus thought he deferv’d, he could not get his Wages, which the Gardener honestly refer’d to the next Justice of the Peace. But Hercules wou’d admit of no Reference, and knock’d poor Augteus on the Head, and so run away to the next Country,, and was safe till he play’d some new Prank, for the States of that Part of the World were so small, that a Man run through two or three of them in a Day.
As for Homer, I am told he was a blind Beggar, who having pawn’d his Verses to that, Gardener for Herbs, Roots, and the like, was not able to redeem them, and so as a Forfeiture they were carried away. And bad Payment too. For how cou’d the Gardener pay his Men, and go to Market with an old Ballad or two? but he was a mighty Lover of Ballads, and So
was
1136;
was content with that Payment, when no better was to be had. That was no
Schoolmaster, is plain, for he was a good Cudgel Player, which no Schoolmaster ever was j so that from his breaking so many of the Trojans Heads, I rather believe him to have been a Gardener. But as for your Roman Pedants, I have little to say to them, unless that it’s likely they had all Popes in their Bellies; but you have forgot the Schoolmaster, who, to betray bis Country, carried all his Scholars, under Pretence of airing them, into the Enemies Camp; but the Enemies General, who eat abundance of Salad, if he were not a Gardener, sent them back again with each a Rod in his Hand, with which they flog’d the Traitor Pedant back to his own Town, where he was soon hang’d, as you all should be, were I your Judge and Jury.
But bow hadst thou the Impudence to mention Socrates, who was the Scourge of all the Pedants of his Time, and who was So fond of Gardens, that he had some fixed in Athens itself, for the Philosophers to walk in and chop Lope 7 And as for his ecdefajucal Hifiory, it is a mere Fiction of thy own Brain, for he never writ anything in his Life: He was a Fellow of a voluble Tongue, and could out talk all the wise Men of his Age; but I question whether he could write or not; but Sure I am he never writ History, therefore. Gerund, thou liest in thy Throat. Thus thou hast made St. Bennh a Schoolmaster, whereas on Inquiry of my Neighbour Monsieur Dancee, a Frenchman born
and
I
V 137)
and bred, I find he scarce ever went to School himself.
I could say much for the Honour of Gardiners, and tell you of one Aldmm a Prince of a Country, and who entertain’d Vlyjjes in his return Home, who was famous for his Gardens. I could likewise, Gerund, mention one Dioclejian an Emperor, who quitted the Empire to turn Gardener. And your Anger against: Adam, the first Man whom your Dogfhip owns to have been a Gardener, it shows your Ingratitude, for if he had not fain, we never had had the Curse of Pedants, but all the World had been Gardiners. In short, you are yourselves a Tax upon the Nation, and a nusance to the Place where you are, and next quarter sef fions I intend to indite you, for your Brats make such a hauling, that it frights my Team every time I drive to Market, and I am afraid sometime or other I shall Suffer in my Cattle, by the damnable noise of a Company of idle young rascals, who learn to rob an Orchard, before they can tell what’s Latin for an Apple. The Conclusion of your Letter is as impudent as the beginning, by putting one Cicero on me for a Schoolmaster, when he was a Dealer in Vetches in the Herb market in Rome, and had his Name from that pulse, for Pedant Cicero comes from Cicer, which is a Vetch in Enftijh. He was I believe a great Cornchandleri and by some of his Works I fancy a Costermonger likewise, if not a Gardener, for he writ a Book de Fimbus bonorum Maforum, that is, of the End or Use of
good
t
(08)
good Apples, that is, of our Kentish Pippins, they are the hest Apples that I know of.
But the Gardiners are not without their History Writers too; for, blundering Gerund. what dost thou think of one Lucius Flortts,
whose very Name proves him a Gardener, for
that is In English Luke the Floriji, from Flores Flowers; Florus easily comes from Flores. So I now return thee the Halter you sent me, and do not doubt but to hear thou hast hang’d thyself, on being so handled by honest
Adam Pumpkin,
This is a merry Quarrel (said 0 and I think that old Adam has got the better of the peda gogue. The Pedagogue (assum’d the Chevalier) discovers a great deal of Ignorance, or Impudence, or both; and I believe (pursu’d the Baron) the Gardener hy thehelp of the Parish Clerk,, who seems to be a notable Wag,., is not behind Hand with him in either. In my Opinion (concluded Downright') the whole Controversy seems much of a Piece with those of the Learned, as they are call’d; r there is a hearty Contempt of his adversary in each; false tations,. much Wrath, and very little Wit.,
%
LET
»

LETTER III
Some Comfort for a Cuckold.. ■
It is thus directed.
To Mr. qldsap,. at his Chambers in New
Inn, London.
deat Ralph,
T Have receiv’d your melancholy Letter, in. * which you complain of your hard Fate in having a Wife. You know what Gomet in the
Spanish Friar lays, Wear 'married for our
Sins, and the Lord have Mercy upon ui ought to be •written over our Doors, And old Acajio in the Orphan, in his dying Advice to his Sons,
says,
1. et Marriage he the laji mad Thing you do,.
To fat isfy for all the former.
Did you know Woman so little, as to place any happiness or Content in a Wife? How came you to forget the Success you had found with other Mens Wives, that you could ever think of hating one yourself? What Charms did you think an old Bachelor should have to.. tie the wandering Appetite of a Woman to himself? Or cou’d you have the Confidence or Vanity to imagine, that you shou’d fare better, than your Neighbours? For my Part, I have
that
(
i
k 140}
. that value for the Sex, that I will trust: none of them, that 1 may not be oblig’d to suspect, or curse any.
But you may comfort yourself in this Affliction, by reflecting you are not a Cuckold alone, you have a jolly Company of fellovv fufferers; and it is so much the Fashion nowadays, that a Man would be look’d on as a Monster that was out of the Mode : Every one wou’d think that you had made a very scandalous Choice, who was not capable of provoking one to ask her the Question; for you know what Ovid Said long ago, who had a pretty large
ac<iuaintanee among the Bona rohd.s of Rome :
0
Casta eji qiiam nemo regavit.
All I can blame your good Wife for in this Affair, is, that she manag’d so ill as to let her Intrigue be found out by the only Man in the World from whom she ought to have conceal’d it; for as long as the Husband is ignorant, the Wife is virtuous.
You know my Client Mr, go!dhite\‘ he married too, and thought himself the only happy Man, till he caught her in the Fact; but then with the Temper of a Philosopher he remain’d perfectly Calm, no Blood and Wounds follow’d; he only presently order’d his Coach to be got ready, and taking her by the Hand, Come Madam (said he) we must just now make your Father a Visit. How unwilling soever Madam was, she was fain to Submit, for as the
Emperor in Aurentebe says, -- -- -- -- Vice make them
l.umble, gives them Care to please. They got to
her
( MI)
her father’s by Noon, where Mr. Goldhite let both Father and Mother know the Adventure, and told them he had brought them their Daughter again.
The old Gentleman was very much troubled, for she was his Darling, and therefore endeavouring to pacify his son-in-law, he proffer’d to give him 500 h more, if he wou’d hush all up and take her Home with him again. In short, Goldhite having brought him up to 1000 /. conlented. The Father bid his Wife take her Daughter to her Chamber, and Severely chide her. The young Lady and her Mother retiring; the old Man prefs’d hss Son to go with him, and listen to what his Wife should Say. The Motion being agreed to, they fixed themselves to overhear the Ma ternal Lecture — — When they hear these
Words, -- -- Oh! you heedless lily Whore, to
be caught! I do not blame thee for Cuckolding thy Husband, for that’s a common Peccadillo in our Sex; but I blame thee for doing it with so little Caution as to let thy own Husband catch thee in the Fact; why I have made thy Father a Cuckold a hundred Times,
and he knows nothing of it yet. -- -- -- Come,
come. Son, Said the old Gentleman, Come away, we have heard enough to Satisfy you, that you are not the only Cuckold; you have me for a Partner, but with this Difference, you have got 1000 /. by being a Cuckold, I nothing.
Thus Goldhite being doubly satisfied, return’d home with his Wife, who has ever Since been,
if
( 142)
if not more virtuous, at least: more cautious. I wish you as good Luck, who am
Thy faithful Friend,
hut no married Man,
jeoffrysi N G LEMAN,
Poor Oldfap (Said the baronj is it come to this at last? Is thy enclosure broke up? Why Sue the trespaflscr, a good London Jury will give thee Costs and Damages enough, if thy wife’s Gallant can but pay them.
But, (assum’d the Chevalier) perhaps the good Lady made choice of one who is not worth a Groat, and then it wou’d be proclaiming himself a Cuckold for no manner of Advantage. ’tis no great matter^ffaid I) that this is befal’n Oldfap, who has all the Tricks of a thorough Attorney, (for I know him) and of a Usurer, and a damnable Extortioner; and if all the young Fellows he has drawn in, or injur’d, shou’d be receiv’d by his Wife, it wou’d be but just upon him.
Tho’ I am no great Admirer (Said Downright) of the Fair Sex, yet I cannot agree with Mr. Singleman, but shall always believe, that there area great number of chaste Women, merely ■out of a Principle of Virtue.
LETS

i
m
< 143)
LETTER IV
of Dancing
SPQ Mr. Gay land, at his House in the pall
mall, London..
My good Friend,
Your two or three last Letters have given me the Spleen so much, that I can’t prevent your having a share in the Effect of it. 1 have no Patience to read your extravagant Panegyrics on a couple of Scoundrel French Dancers. How there is nothing So fine, So charming, lb transporting as Monsieur Coufie; and then Monsieur Rigadoon Surpasses all Mankind; I am not able to repeat their praises. If your Letters were read to a third Person, without mentioning their Faculty, he wou’d imagine you were giving the Eulogium of Some Heroes of Antiquity, for nothing Modern can come up to it.
Had your description been of the dancing •of two beautiful young Ladies, it had been excusable 3 for there Nature wou’d have pleaded for you, and your young Blood being Set in Motion by So engaging an Object, might stir up in your Fancy strange Ideas of Pleasure. But to feel such Raptures from the Antic Postures, Capers and Gesticulations of a Senseless mon lieur, wou’d persuade one that your Head is as
light
( 144)
light as their Heels. I expect e’re long we shall have a Book of your writing in the praise of this senseless Diversion;; if you have any such Thoughts, I wou’d advise you to read the Ancients on this Subject, as lucian’s Dialogues, Athemeus, and others; join to them Hieronymus Mercmiedis, and some modern Antiquaries; and by that time you have done so, you will despise your French Dancers : Or if you are averse to the Greek, and Roman Performances of this kind, travel into Africa and Afa, and there you will find Wonders worthy your Pen. Take a short Account of some of them as I had it from a grave Citizen of London, who assur’d me that he himself had seen it.
On the Coast: of Guinea there are wonderful Fellows at this Art; one in his Dancing shall so amuse you, and deceive your Eyes in so strange a manner, that you believe you See him thrust himself through an Augerhole in a Tree Set there on purpose. Another, in his Dance, throws up a Ball of Packthread into the Air, and the the Thread mounts up after it quite out of sight. A third has a Fire made by the Stage where he dances, and has his Wife by him; in his Dance he expresses hisuneafinefs at her Tricks, and threatens to throw himself into the Fire; accordingly he Seems to cut oss his Legs one after another, and lastly his Head, throwing them into the Fire : But while the Spectators are gazing at this strange Action, and the burning of his Limbs, he is seen whole and found by the Stage laughing at the Company, and making ridiculous and apish Tricks
at their Credulity. If you will go sofar as
China,
( h5)
china, there you may See half a Score lusty Fellows stretching out a Piece of fine Shadow Muzlin, and then one or more jumping upon ■ it, and dancing after their Way on it without breaking so much as a Thread of it.
But you will say these are all Lies, and that my grave Citizen bubbled me into a Belief of his Romance by the Solemnity of his Countenance. As for that, I shall not say much, nor will I defend his Narration as a Truth in all its Parts; but it is agreed by most who have been in those Places, that they perform Such unaccountable
things, that our Europeans attribute it to the Devil, and the Black Art: But be it as it will, I had rather hear these Lies, than See your Monfieurs caper. Therefore prithee trouble me no more with your Coupees and riga doom; if you lee any dancing monk'^ys, Dogs, or Bears, pray let me rather have their pane gyricks for the future. I am. Sir,
Your humble Servant,
Nic. Plainstep.
/
This Gentleman I find (Said the Baron) is Something of my Mind, though he carries his Aversion further than I do. I am sofar for it, that I wou’d have Children taught, because it gives them a graceful Mien; but, I confess, I cou’d never find any Pleasure in feeing grown People dance. I am of your Mind, (Said the Chevalier) and I never went to the playhouse when I Saw idahhe or Ballon in the Bills. I know not, (Said I) but I must own I take a great deal
H of
I
I 146;
\ •
Or Pleasure in a fine Dancer; and the Family of the de Whimfeys have been often great Proficients that way. As for my part, ( Said Downright') though I am not for any French Kickshaws, yet I love a Country Dance; it is Sociable, and a good Exercise;; requires not throwing away of so much of our Time to learn as the others.
m ....I ■■ ■ it I lit. A,, I ■■■■ n. I ■ ■ I I III ■ ■ ■ !■■■■ III a I iwi 1 ■ !■ twm
LETTER V
■advice to a young Gentleman, who wai going
to turn Author.
It was direfled
To Mr. Sprightly at his Chambers in the
Middle temple, London.
Dear Harry,
T receiv’d yours of the i8th Instant with a great steal of Satisfaction, because it brought me the news of your Recovery at a time when Distempers prove So mortal as they have of late.
But this is not the only News your Letter brings me, for you there insorm me that you are Setting up for an Author. I wish your Luck may be equal to your Abilities, else I must tell you, that you will write in vain, either for Reputation or Profit. It is not Learning, it is not Wit, and those eminently join’d, that will clo your bufiness 1 Fortune has as large a share in
this, as in any other particular pursuit of Man s
Life.
I
(147)
Life. You run a great risk, for you Ihake all that Reputation that your Conversation has gain’d you against: the injudicious Approbation of a giddy and ignorant People, whose Fancy and Caprice are tneonly Guide of their Censure, which is erroneous ten times for once it is in the right, and then it is the mere Effect: of Chance too.
I
There are a great many Authors who have been Favourites of the Public, whose real Merit cou’d not challenge two judicious Readers. A lucky Concurrence of Accidents often, nay generally, doesthe Work; as violent Parties, the Striking in with one may give Success. To this Oldham ow’d what little Name he has. Scandal is another great Help; for I have known an Author obscure and neglected for many Years, and th Contempt ev’n of the Sixth Rate Scribbler, who by boldly publishing Scandal bas become a celebrated Person, and let up a Bookseller by the Sale of his Works. If the Party you choose be undermost:, it is ten to one but you have not only a Sufficient Number of Buyers, but numerous Defenders of your Merit, how indifferent soever it may be in Reality 5 for it is so with both Parties, that all the Wit and fine Writing is of their fide. But these Works, and the Glory they gain you, is but transitory and mortal as yourself, nay often of a shorter Date, as dying with the present Heat.
Never think of growing popular by Wit, good sense, or Solid reason; there is a burr lefque Spirit that rules the Age, and a merry Buffoon is Sure to carry the Prize; a Tale of a
B.Z Tib
/
( i)
tis Spreads immediately into every Corner of the Nation, and the Wicked and the Godly join to propagate its Sale.
If you design anything for the Stage, ' you mud remember to prepare its Reception by all the modern Arts which the Authors have found out who would be sticcefsful. You must make a Confident or two of some leading Wits; you must make your court to the young Gentlemen of toe Town, show ’em a description, applaud their Judgement, and pay your Devoirs to the • Ladies, especially such of them as have great Vifiting days, and frec[uent all the alsemblies of the rest of their Sex : If you can insinuate the Merit of your Performance by any public Papers, it Is of great use;; when by your obfequlousness to the Players, both Men and Women, It comes on, you must place Parties of your Friends in the Pit and first Gallery, who will be sure to begin Claps enough; and this artfully manag’d, may do your bufiness, and establish you for a Dramatic Poet for the future. Yet you must not grow above using the Means that rais’d you, which must In some degree be repeated every time you think fit to appear on the Stage with anything new. But notwithstanding all these politic Practises, it is possible you may miscarry, or meet with a cold Reception, and then you must in your Preface arraign the Judgement of the Town; for though you are fatisfy’d in it when it gives you Applause, though never So unmerited, yet you will never acquiesce in it when it condemns you. In the latter indeed you are more likely to be in the right; for a thing must be very
. execrably
(hp)
execrably bad indeed when they hiss with jus tice, that is in comparison of what they approve.
I know there are Some Sanguine Gentlemen who flatter themselves with the Assurance, that their Works will find that Justice from Posterity, waich the present Age denies them. But this is built on a very falle Foundation, that is, their real Merit and Excellence, and a vain Belief that Posterity will have more Judgement and Understanding than we have, and that what they write will ever reach Posterity.
That many Plays, and other Books likewise, which have not the good Luck to please, have yet far greater Desert than the most taking, I grant to be true; but I can see no reason from thence, that they will be more approv’d by those who come after us, than by our Contemporaries, because I See no Prospect that they will know more of the Matter; and we have Proofs from Experience, that we have not done So by our Predecessors : Maftnger is far a better Poet than Beaumont and Fletcher; yet we find the Plays of the latter are printed and reprinted, while it Is a difficult thing to meet with those of the former. ’tis true, the dra matlck Poets of the foregoing Times were not worthy of that Name, as being at most but Dialogists', except the Immortal Ben. john/on, in Some of his Comedies : Yet on that Bottom 'Beaumont and Fletcher deserve the very least praise, ssnce they never dessgn’d a just Character In their Serious Plays; their Kings are all Footmen, or of the Mob, and have nothing Royal; and their Women Seldom Modesty
H 3 enough
( 15°)
enough for a Whore in a Comedy. Talking with Mr. Dryden about the Success of these two Poets, he told me, that they were first cry’cl and help’d up by a Party, and some of their Plays afterwards continu’d in Reputation on the Stage by the great Actors that follow’d; so that now they are receiv’d by Prescription; and indeed it is pretty plain from this, that let us revive any of them, without some new Helps, they will not be born. Another Reason that those Poems and Plays, as well as other Books, vahich meet not with immediate Success, never can come to Posterity, is, that the present Book sellers, when they do not Sell, condemn with the many, and Sell off the Remainder for Wafte paper, or to moorfields, where I have often met with more valuable Books than most that fet out the booksellers Shops.
One Advice I had forgot, and which I learned of a Poet, (as he is call’d) who has met with frequent Success: For asking him what Rules he fallow’d to please the Town, as he had done, he frankly told me, no Rules at all, except what he had gather’d chiefly from the Rehearsal. That indeed, reply’d I, may furnish you with many just criticisms, cspecially in a voiding the Blunders of your Predecessors. What Criticisms in Art he may afford. Said he, I have never confider’d; but I was of opinion, that he endeavour’d to ridicule nothing that Iftd not pleas’d the Town, concluded that what once pleas’d, might please again, and So I chose to imitate what you call Blunders, and I have seldom miss’d my Aim when I did So. And you may observe, that the very Same Audience that
clap
(ijl)
clap at the Rehearsal, clap likewise at those'piayy; which have been ridicul’d in it. But you mav ' Say, this wou’d be to make the People laugh at a Tragedy, which Seems not the Aim of that i Sort of Poem : Nay, if you are for moving Pity and Tears, you may meet with the Fate of a Friend of mine, who was condemn’d for having mov’d Tears from the Beginning of histrage
CD ^
dy to the End, and that by a celebrated Wit among the Ladies. I have known an Author, whilst all the Audience were in a loud laugh ter at histragedy, stand at the stage door and be as merry as they: Our Spectators are So fond of Mirth in these Representations, that they arc more willing to laugh than weep at Tragedy itself.
Thus it Is plain, that it is with Authors as Hippocrates wou’d have it with Physicians, when he advises to choose one for his Fortune more than his Skill.
these are a few of the Considerations which I have on this Subject; my Paper denies ilie Room for more; and if these are not enough to stop your Pen, why write on as long as you can find booksellers to print your Copies: I am Sure I shall be a Gainer by it, since I shall then be able to enjoy you in your Books, when I cannot in person. Pray Send me a Book I have
heard much of, call’d, The Complete Art of Poetry. If it answer the Title, and meet with success, I have Some Hopes that our Posterity may be better Judges than we, and that they will have better Subjects for their Judgement. Poetry is a Sort of wild uncultivated Region yet, quite overrun with Verfifyers and Poetasters;
H 4 Regu
(152)
Regularity may introduce Beauties, which we have seldom seen in Britain. I am
Your sincere Friend and faithful Servant,
Hugh Jean.
This Gentleman has muster’d up (said I) such a Company of terrible Difficulties, that I fear he will rob us of a new Author in his Friend. Never fear that, (said the Baron) for when a young Fellow has the Itch of Scribbling upon him, he is hardly cur’d till he has scratch’d himself Sufficiently in Public to show his Perfection.
har. Sprightly fid the Chevalier) may do as he pleases; but let him reflect, that as there is nothing more valuable than a good Writer, So there is nothing more despicable than a bad. For my part (Said Downright) I think we have Books enough already, and, as Solomon Uys,
'there is no end of writing of Bcokj.
N
Here is another Packet, (Said I) though not So big as the last : Shall I break it open, and read the Contents, or pass on to the next? By all means ( Said the Baron) read it in its turn, for I lik’d the last So well, that I am not frighted at the Bulk. On this I read the Direction, which was thus.
L E TT
IJ3;
LETTER VI
Sto Robert Euglandj i * his Hottfe in Queeffs square, Lambs conduit Fields, London.
I Have, Sir, according to your repeated Importunities, now sent you a Transtation of that Piece of the Larin Book which I told you of; I have heard that there is one more complete in London, but I cannot yet meet with it. If the Letters want of the Spirit which they have ev’n in the Latin, I hope you will excuse it, because you know that I have too many Years upon me, to have all that Fire that a Verllon of this Nature requires. Besides, the People of Pi'ovence werel once very famous for their Poetical Genius, and Love is more strong and touching in such, than in us Mortils of a
calmer and more indifferent Temper. The Title is thus.
H 5
1
Sufpiria amanvn:
f
S I V E
epistolie
F a R M O S I S S I M
stremunije
ALPHONSUM
V
SAPIENTEM3
Castilise & Aragonise Regcm, Provenciae Comitejn, c
LX Provenciali Lingua in' Latinam tranffulit Gonfalvus de Mendoza.
\
THE
lover’s Sighs:
OR, T H E;
LETTERS
Of the most Beautiful
STREMUNIA
T O
/
ALPHONSO
The Wije„
King of Cafiile., Aragon andi
Earl of Frovence., cc.
Translated out of the Provenciat Tongue into Lattn^ by Gonfalvo. de Mendoza,
A 15^;
Lhe Pranflator s Preface or previom Discourse begins thm;
* Turing my late stay in Provence, I met
‘ with the following Letters in the Pro
* Tongue, which pleas’d me so well,
‘ that I got the Permission of the Gentleman ‘ to whom they belong’d to transcribe them, ‘ and which I have now put into Latin, for
* the Benefit of all those who do not under ‘ stand the Original.
'* Alphonfo the Wife (Says my Author) was ‘ born to the abfblute Sovereignty of Provence, ‘ tho’with the Title only of Count or Earlj his
* Administration was so just and equal, that ‘ he might be said to govern by Love, and
* not Fear, or if bis People felt any Fear, it
* Was of offending against a Father.
‘ This admirable Justice of the Prince dif ‘ fus’d itself through all his Ministers, who ‘ were Sure of his Favour, only as they dis ‘ charg’d their Duty with Impartiality and
* uprightness.
‘ This Prince So belov’d at home, and So
* deserving to be belov’d, was for the Same
* of his wisdom and Justice, as well as his ‘. Relation to the Kings of Cafeile and Aragon, ‘ call’d to those Thrones on the Death of the ‘ last Prince of a former Race, and so oblig’d
* to leave Provence to the Administration of
* his Brother, and Such other great Men as he
* thought fit to join with him in his com * mission.
‘ There
%
(157)
* There was a general Grief through all his ‘ Dominions, on his Departure from his native ‘ Country to go and take posseilion of his ‘ new Dignities; where he was not to meet
* with so loving a People, as unacquainted ‘ with his excelknt Qualities and Virtues true ‘ ly Royal. These Kingdoms had been too ‘ long in the Hands of weak and irresolute ‘ Princes, which had given Rise to great and
* dangerous Parties, and he was Sure which ‘ ever of them he chose, he shou’d have the
* other his Enemy.
‘ He was advis’d not to distinguish himself ‘ in either, but to have his Ministers and ‘ Council mixed of both; but those moderate ‘ measures were rejected, either by the new ‘ kint^’s Opinion, that but one of them was
* fineerely in his Interest; or, because it was ‘ urg’d that a niedly Ministry wou’d always be
‘ So clashing and thwarting each other, that the
‘ bustness of the State must be at a stand,
‘ and nothing but Confusion be at the Helm.
‘ Which of tbese two Considerations pre
* I dare not pretend to determine;
* but believe that the King was fixed in one
* Party by the most prudent and wise reasons. ‘ But having thus chosen, Jlphonfo with the ‘ bravest resolution in the World kept to his ‘ Choice; which caus’d many Troubles, Tu ‘ mults and Rebellions, all which he van
* with Glory, and at last brought the ‘ hateful Distinctions which had So many ‘ Years divided the Caflili ans to nothing; and
* that Peace and Plenty that ensu’d, that In
* and Power he attain’d in all the Courts
‘ of
‘ of Spain and other Parts of Europe, made the ‘ most factious of the cajuuans own the Bless
* which Providence had bestow’d on
* them in so wife and brave a Sovereign.
‘ But I have not much to do with his Poli ‘ tical Excellencies, at least only with that ‘ Part of them which was found ev’n in his ‘ Amours; for it is certain that the several
* Engagements that this Prince had, were
* not the bare Effect of Constitution, but in
* Some Measure were influenc’d by political
* Considerations; for by his Gallantries he
* got the good Word of the Ladies, who by
* this Means fancy’d themselves not excluded ‘ entirely from his Thoughts. For I know not ‘ how it is, a King or other Sovereign Prince,
‘ who has no visible Amours, is sure to pro
* the Malice of the Women, and Set
* them on inventing Scandals not So popular
* as a wise Prince would like. They wou’d
* represent him as a detested Slave to unnatu
* ral Lust, or barbarous, avaritious and cruel.
‘ Whether the natural Vanity of the Sex gives
* hopes to them all, of having a lucky Chance
* of being the happy Woman in her Turn, or
* that the great Men and Courtiers generally ‘ imitate their Lord, and So the Ladies find
* the Benefit of more frequent Addresses and ' ‘ Intrigues. And when a Court is that way
* inclin’d, the Mode takes away the Fear of
* the loss of Reputation.
‘ Be this as it will, Alphonfo by his Amours ‘ kept himself in the good Graces of the Fe
* Sex, with whom he never engag’d fi)
-. * strong
\
IP j
* strongly, as to be at the Command of any
‘ particular.
‘ He was generous enough to those he ‘ chose, to leave the old one no Cause to com ‘ plain whenever he thought fit to make a
* new Choice; and that, with his great Dig ‘ nity, and the Charms of his Perion, made
* it no difficult Matter for him to gain whom ever he had a Mind to. He was inclining to
‘ be low of Stature, but his person most agree ‘ ably turn’d, all his Limbs persectly propor ‘ tion’d and strongly knit together,, his Coun
* tenance majestic, his Eyes awful, and yet ^ full of Sweetness;; that he at once com ‘ manded Veneration and Love; and indeed
* there were such evident Lines of goodness in
* his Face, that h‘is very Enemies were not *' able to check their respect and Value for
* him.
‘ I shall not here mention all the Ladies ‘ who Successively were his mistresfes Of all
* of them Sacclimene had the Art of remaining
* longest in his Favour,, tho’not always kept
* in it by the Charms of her Person, or the ‘ Power of Love. She was more govern’dhy ‘ Ambition and Gain, than by that, So that
* she easily prevail’d with herself to be ofifi ‘ ‘ cious in promoting his fresher Amours with
* other Ladles, and Ib always preferv’d an In
* in the Prince, Sufficient to answer her " Desires of Profit, when Several, who for a? ^ while transported Alphonfo with their.beauty,
* grew stale and neglectesh *
* Thus
• #
t 100;
* Thus no Was more obliging to the
* young Stremuma on her Advancement, or
* more forward to engage her Heart to the
* King, than Sacclimene, tho’ She afterwards ‘ repented of what she had done, finding her
* grow so much in Favour, that none before
* her had receiv’d Such Marks of Honour,
* Distinction and Bounty, as this young Mistress ‘ had done. She confider’d that Alphonfo grew
* in Years, being past fisty, and did not know ‘ but he might at last be wholly engross’d by
* a Lady that had So much Youth and Beauty
* as Stremunia.
‘ She was not therefore idle in Seeking out ‘ Some other Lady to put in the king’s way, ‘ to break, at least divide his Inclination, ‘ which if she cou’d obtain, she did not fear
* but that his Pafifion wou’d Soon grow So
‘ weak towards her, that she wou’d be no
* longer So dangerous a Rival.
‘ The cajulians, tho’ fond enough of Stran
* gers out of the Court, were yet always un
* easy at their living in Power with their ‘ Prince; and Alphonfo had all along, after his ‘ coming to the Crown, shown a particular
* fondness of some of his Countrymen of Pro
* perhaps more than was consistent with ‘ the Prudence of so wife a Prince; nor had ‘ he yet admitted any cctfuhan Lady to his Bo
* But Sacclimene, being destitute of Pro
* Beauties to promote, thought she ‘ might ingratiate herself with the cajulians, ‘ by advancing some Beauty among them.
* With these Thoughts she had recourse to ‘ a certain French Count, who had fixed him
‘ Self
(ii)
* Self in that Kingdom, and had render’d him ‘ Self very acceptable with the Nobility, by ‘ finding out Means of diverting them.
‘ This Count had found out a most perfect
* Beauty, and one whose Accomplishments he
* did not doubt wou’d touch the king’s Heart; ‘ There was but one Obstacle, and that was, ‘ she was Daughter to one of the Party which ‘ were esteem’d the king’s Enemies; but Am
* and the Hopes of those Advantages ‘ which attend a king’s mistress, stifled all ‘ other Thoughts in the young Lady, who ‘ cou’d be as zealous for Alphonfo, if She had
* the Benefit of it, as ever her Father had ‘ been against him.
‘ In short, the Count had her at one of his ‘ Entertainments, fet out with all Advantages ‘ that Art cou’d add to her natural Perfections. ‘ There the King Saw her, lik’d her, and de
* to have her, if she cou’d be won by ‘ any reasonable Means. That Task was left ‘ to the Count and Sacclimene, who, glad osthe
* Office, Ibon fitted her for his Bed, by as ‘ Suring a noble Settlement, and magnifying ‘ the king’s Bounty, and his personal Excel ‘ lencies.
‘ All this was transacted without the Know ‘ ledge or ev’n suspicion of the poor s'.remu
* nia, but thought herself Safe in the possess
* of her belov’d Alphonfo.
‘ The very Night of this fatal Interview,
‘ file had a very ominous and troublesome ‘ Dream, which made her Send the King the ‘ Sollowing Letter,
LET
A
i
( j6z)
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmbmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmrnmmmmmmmbmmmm
LETTER VII
LO the deareji of Men and the greatefi of
Kings.
\
* ip Ardon me, my most adorable Prince, that SK ‘ I dare intrude the Extravagance of my
* Passion into your busy Hours; if it be an
* Impertinence I shou’d not be guilty of, yet
* if you confider me betray’d to this Offence
* by the violence of Love, you will not only
* forgive, but pity me. Alas! were the Souls ‘ of Men half so tender as ours, I shou’d not
* need to make this Apology; but Ambition ‘ governs there, and Love is not known. Ah!
* my King, that you were as great and unex ‘ ampled in Love, as in all those Royal Vlr
* tues, that make you the Admiration of all ‘ the other Sex, and the Idol of ours! Then ‘ you wou’d feel those Tortures and Agonies, ‘ that last Night tormented your poor Stremu ‘ ftia. Oh! Horror! I tremble but to think ‘ of it again! ’tis true, It was but a Dream, ^ and blessed be my Stars that It was no more; ‘ for had it been real, I shou’d pot have had ‘ Life to have writ down my Misery. Me
* oh God! far be the Omen, I ‘ thought, that whilst I had you in my Arms, ‘ in a Moment you vanish’d away, and left me ‘ embracing the empty Air. Imagine the ‘ Racks I was upon : In despair methought I
‘ flew from my Bed, and wander’d distracted
‘ to
(i)
* to another Apartment in the Palace, and
* there I found you! But how? Oh my King I ‘ In the Arms of another. despair, Beige, ‘ Grief, with united Force made an assault ‘ upon my Soul, that the Bands of Sleep
* eou’d not contain, but Immediately burst ‘ in Sunder: And waking I found myself all in
* Tears, and So terrible an Agony, that I ‘ came not to myself perfectly In Some Hours. ‘ But oh, dlsmal Night! when at last I fell ‘ again Into a Slumber, the Same cursed imat
* ges disturb’d me once more; So that I gave ‘ the rest of the dark Hours to wakeful Pain,
* while my fearful Soul form’d direful Appre
* henlions upon these empty Dreams. Oh! ‘ rather let me never steep again, than have
* anymore Such.
‘ Oh! my adorable Prince, let your Good
* indulge the fond weakness of your poor
* Srremuma, o far as to let her See you this ‘ Morning, and with your desirable presence ‘ dissipate the Anxieties of my lovefick Mind!
* But if the Tyranny of Business deny me
* that, this Night is mine, and I beg you
* wou’d lengthen the Joy by coming as soon
* possfible, ev’n tho’ you leave Something
‘ of State undone till tomorrow; the Public ‘ will not Suffer; but till I See you, your Stre
* numia dies. *
* The Messenger brought Word, that the
* the King was So engag’d in bufiness, tho’ So ‘ early, .that he cou’d get no answer.; - which ‘ gave her a fresh Alarm, since her Messengers ‘ were not us’d to want Admittance, let the
‘ Affairs
( 1^4)
* Affairs of State be whaf they wou’d. How
* she comforted herself that all would be
* well at Night, since it was one of those on
* which she us’d to have the king’s Company,
* and of which she had yet never fail’d. But
* she Sat up all the Night in expectation of ‘ the wish’d for Blessing; but no Alphonfo came
* or Sent. As Soon as she cou’d See, she writ
* him the following Letter.
*
LETTER VIIL
* AH! cruel Prince! and cou’d you know
^ ‘ that your Stremumds Soul was in for
* row, and that on your Account too, and ‘ rob her of her only Comfort? Not give her ‘ one Moment, ev’n in the Night, when Bu
* is no more, and all the Crowds of ‘ Courtiers besiege you no longer? What not ‘ on that Night, which hitherto you have let
* me call my own, when I us’d to poises you ‘ free from all the World, have you all my
* Oh! my cruel King, are you grown ‘ weary of your Stremmia^. are all her Charms *■ wafted already? is her Youth flown? has
* hateful old Age and Srightful Wrinkles Sur ‘ row’d her Face already? and do you love no ‘ more? or indeed, did you ever love me at ‘ all? That you have lov’d me 1 cannot doubt,
* for you told me so, and it was below Aphonfo ‘ to dissemble with his Slave; doubly his
* Slave, by Birth, and then by Love! for oh!
‘ 1 love
t
C 165)
‘ 1 love you still, yes, to Diftractlon love you; ‘ and if you have ceas’d to love me, there can ‘ be nothing so miserable as Stremuma.
‘ But sure it cannot be 5 my lovely Prince, my ‘ King, my Hero, cannot be so sickle. No, my ‘ Heart be at rest, he loves me still; his Royal ‘ Office often engages his Nights as well as ‘ Days, and this has rob’d me this one Night
* of my soul’s Wish: The next dusky Hours ‘ will make me amends. Fly fast: then glorious ‘ Sun, and come ye Shades and bring my
* Sun, that gives me Light, Heat, and Moti ‘ on. Oh my dear King, cou’d you have seen ‘ me last Night, beheld my Impatience,
* mark’d how every little Noise made my ' ‘ Heart bounce agalnft my Bosom with a mo
‘ mentary transport of Joy. Ha! there comes ‘ my Alphonfo i I cried often aloud; but no Al ‘ phonfo came! I told the Hours, counted all ‘ the Minutes, and hop’d, and figh’d, and ‘ wish’d in vain, ev’n all the livelong Night.
* Sleep fled my Eyes, nor did my Bed once ‘ know me till now the hated Sun appears
* again, to Show me, to point me out my Mi ‘ Sery. The Night seem’d doubly long, and
* yet I wish’d it had not yet an End; for ‘ while that lasted, I fed myself with Hopes ‘ I yet shou’d see you. But now those Hopes are ‘ dead, and black Despair assumes their Place; ‘ yes, yes, my Prince, I languish, despair and ‘ die. Oh! my dear Lord! my King! ray ‘ Sovereign! the Sum of all my Joys, my
* Wishes and my Desires, take Pity upon your
* poor Stremuma, and by a speedy Visit prevent
‘ her Distraction. Come, if it be but for one
‘ Minute,
{166)
'Minute, to tell me that my Fears are vain, ‘ and that you love me still.
Stremunia, as soon as she had finish’d this
* Letter, feal’d it up, and sentit by her Fa ‘ vourite Maid Cloria, with a ftrifl (dharge to ‘ deliver it into the king’s own Hand, and to
* mark his Countenance on the Reception.
‘ Gloria had liv’d with her from her Child
* and was witness to her most Secret ‘ Thoughts, and always employ’d by, her in ‘ her most important Affairs. She was bold, ‘ and pushing, nor wou’d ftie be easily denied.
‘ After two Hours ftie return’d to her Mif ‘ tress, who had waited for her with the last
* her stay having been much longer
* than it us’d to be on these Occasions
* soon as she enter’d the Room in a Me ‘ lancholy Manner; Well, cried Stremunia, how ‘ does my King? is he well? what ill News
* else can’ll: thou bring? for tby Looks ‘ threaten me with no pleasing Message.
‘ The King (reply’d Clorid) is well, 1 Sup
* for I have not been admitted to him. ‘ When I prefs’d it, Morat told me that the ‘ King was not stirring, but spoke it with ano ‘ there Air, than he us’d to receive your mes
* with. I propos’d to wait till he ‘ rose: He with a Scornful Smile told me it
* wou’d be to no purpose, for he was Sure the ‘ King wou’d not See me; that if I wou’d ‘ leave my Letter, he wou’d find a fit Time to
* deliver it. I wou’d not be put off, assuring
* him, that by your Order I was to give the
‘ Let
ci67)
® Letter into his majefty’s own Hands. That ‘ you will not, fair Cloria’ this Day, said he 5
* 1 dare not admit you, no nor your Millrefs ‘ neither, shou’d she come herfelti
‘.dh! Insolence, ‘mtqttnptqd Stremunia, durst ‘ the Slave behave himself in that Manner! I ‘ will have him difmiss’d! does he not know ^ me, nor my Power with his Master?
‘ Alas! (Said Gloria with a Sigh.) I fear that ‘ Power is at an End. You may be Sure, Madam, he knew what he did, and plainly told
* me that your Pride had met a Check: That the ^ King had got a new mistress, and So turn’d ‘ short upon me, and went his Way. I thought
* myself oblig’d to make an Inquiry into this ‘ Affair, which I found was no Secret. They
* inform’d me, that what Morat had Said of a ‘ new mistress was certainly true; and the Rc ‘ port was, that she was a Cajlilian, and that ‘ which was more Surprising, the Daughter of ‘ one of that Party, which was look’d on as ‘ Enemies to the Royal cause. She was cried ‘ up as a most accomplish’d Beauty, and had
* all the praises given her, that Flattery pays
* to a riling Favourite.
'isto more (cried out Stremuma) no more of thy hatesul News! ’tis salsel it can’t be true 1 it is impossible! ’tis forg’d to give me Pain by the Slave mor ai and his Creatures; but I shall revenge myself upon his daring insolence. But you deliver’d not my Let ‘ ter then? Not to the King, hut to ishmael, who treated me with more Civility, and pro ‘ mis’d to deliver it to him the first Minute ‘ he was admitted. I question’d him on this
: c *
( I <58)
‘ Report; he Said, he wish’d that there were
‘ no Grounds for it, but hop’d -- -- -- -- -
‘ hop’d! what did he hope? Oh! Gloria,
* What cou’d he hope of Comfort to me? ‘ That it was only (reply’d Gloria) a traniient
* Piece of Gallantry, and that you still had ‘ his Heart; but be it as it wou’d, he wou’d ‘ omit nothing to procure an Answer, which
* he wish’d might be satisfactory to you.
‘ No Gloria (cry’d Stremuma) nothing can be ‘ Satisfactory to me, when I have a Rival, that ‘ cqu’d take him from my Arms! I can’t bear
* the racking Thought 1 She run on in a most ‘ violent Passion, and throwing herself on the ‘ Bed, cry’d out, Oh! ungrateful King! and ‘ shed a Flood of Tears, beating her Breast, ‘ and tearing her lovely Locks.
‘ Gloria did all she cou’d to pacify her, and
* put her in Hopes that it was all false, that ‘ Morat was a malicious Fellow. But, Said she, ‘ Ishmael is not So, Ishmael wishes me well, and
* that there were not too much ground for the ‘ Report.
‘ Were it certain, Said Gloria, you cou’d not ‘ do more; this Agony, this Passion is no Re ‘ medy; it only disorders you to no Purpose
* shou’d your Enemies know it, you cou’d ‘ not afford them a greater Triumph. Be
* it will discompose your Charms, which ‘ you ought to heighten, to retrieve what you ‘ suppose you have lost. Have Patience, and ‘ I will try again to Speak with the King,
* Sound him to the Bottom, and let him know ‘ the Tortures you feel for his absence, and ‘ the false Reports that are come to your Ears
^ ‘ about
(169)
‘ about him. Compose yourself with a little
* Sleep, and I warrrant you See the King before ‘ many Hours are past.
‘ Sleep! (Said Stremmid) no, thou has mur
* Sleep with thy Account of my mise ‘ rable State! I care for no Beauty, stnce my ‘ King is inconstant; I defir’d only to seem
‘ beautiful for him and to him -- -- -- Sleep! I
‘ hate thee now, Cloria, to think I can Sleep on ‘ this News — - No, I shall Sleep no more, till
* Death close my Eyes with an eternal Sleep. ‘ But go and try what thou canst further learn
* of this curs’d Event. I will not leave you ‘ efaid Clorid) in this Agony, of which I dread ‘ the Effect, were you to be left alone. Let ‘ some other go on this disagreeable Affair, I ‘ wish I had died rather than have been the
* first: meftenger of such ill Tidings.
* After sometime Spent in this Manner, Cla ‘ ria prevail’d to Send another, which being ‘ done, she made use of all her Art to pacify
* her mistress’s Rage. About Noon a Letter ‘ was brought her from Sacclimene to the fol
* purpose.
I LET
(lyo)
i
«
LETTER IX
From Sacclimene to the fair Stremunia,
Health.
‘ T^HO’ I am alwvtys watchful to do Stremu.
T ‘ nia Service, yet what I shall endea* ‘ your to do her now, I have not the Satisfac ‘ tion to boast the Effect of my own good Will
* to her, but of the Commands of one whom
* we both, I hope, take Pleasure in obeying.
‘ You know, fd.ir Stremuma, that we are Slaves
* to our Prince, made for his Service, and his ‘ Pleasure;; that the Actions of Princes are
* not to be too nicely examin’d, if at all; they are unaccountable; it is Happiness enough
‘ that we can please them, and still a greater ‘ that we can share their Favours. You mull ‘ remember, fairthat you are a Cour
‘ tier, bred in the Court from your Infancy, ‘ and shou’d not therefore be deceiv’d by other ‘ Notions, than which nothing can be morein
* jurious to your Happiness. Love is an agree
* Amusement for a time; but to have that
* puling Passion take up all our Thoughts, e ‘ Specially when we once come to woman’s ‘ Estate, is a weakness, I hope, Stremuma is ‘ too much a Woman to be guilty of. Fidelity,
Constancy, and the like, are the vain Day
‘ dreams of a Green sickness Girl in a Country
‘ a/’illage, and never rule in the Court, where
‘ Passions of more Consequence ought to reign;
‘ the
(i70
* the Purfuishof Wealth and Power is what ‘ may last one all one’s Life, but the Love of
* Man cannot hold long ev’n with the most
* There is no such thing in Na
* as a constant Man, much less a King. If ‘ you value the King, and wou’d always keep ‘ in his Favour, you should do as 1 have done 5 ‘ never make him uneasy about your Love; but
* if you find he will be wandering, never pine,
‘ or be out of Humour, but contribute to the
* promoting what he seems to desire, which.
‘ will make Friendship arise out of the Ashes
* of dead Love, and that may hold as long as ‘ he lives. All Objects lose by a too familiar
* View; and believe me, dear St remum a, over: Sex. * Is not furnish’d with Variety enough always
* to furnish out an agreeable Feast as a Mistress' ' ‘ true, If we cou’d seem amiable In our
‘ Lovers Eyes as long as we do In our own, our ‘ Empire wou’d be of a longer Date than It ge * is; nay, I am So sincere as to think ‘ It wou’d then be longer than we wou’d have
* it; for when we cease to love ourselves, Con
* In the Men Is very troublesome.
‘ Not to detain you longer in suspence, the ‘ King is a Man, a true Man In Love affairs;
‘ Change Is as much In his Nature, as In that ‘ of other Men; and if the Charms of Stremu ‘ ma cou’d not fix him, you have no cause to ‘ envy your Successor, who must have less
* Beauty, and therefore reign a much shorter ‘ tlme.theking has order’d me to let you know,
‘ that he will always regard you, and that you ‘ may. If you wlu, always enjoy a large Share ‘ of his Favours, though he has chosen ano
I a * there
()
there Mistress at present. Bear yourself like a
* Woman; and if you have any girl like Fond ‘ ness yet remaining after this Information,
throw it away, or give it your Maid, like an ‘ old Gown out of Fashion. I wish you easy
* happy, which is wholly in your own
* Breast. Adieu.
/
‘ It was with great difficulty Stremuma went ‘ thro’ this Letter; but the Conclusion struck ‘ her foto the Heart, that she fell into a Swoon,
* from which Cloria had much ado to recover
* her; but she no sooner was brought to her ‘ self, but she relaps’d, and that so often, that
* Cdoria defpair’d of ber Life j so, calling for
* more Assistants, they got her into her Bed, ‘ where she lay all Night without saying one ‘ word, but shedding abundance of Tears, and
* sending forth lamentable Groans.
‘ This Agony by the Morning had cast her
* into a violent Fever, which, in spite of all
* the Doctors cou’d do, ev’ry Day increas’d, till ‘ her Life was defpair’d of. (doriia found means
* to give the King an Account of all that had ‘ past; and though he was vex’d at her Folly, ‘ yet he order’d all the Care that cou’d be ta
* to be employ’d in her Recovery; But ‘ upon a Motion, that his Majesty wou’d pay
* her a Visit, he rejected it, saying, That in ‘ his Opinion, that wou’d be to put her into a
* new Agony, and revive a Passion he hop’d ‘ expiring; as having begun from the Sudden
* of the Change of her Fortune; for the ‘ King wou’d not attribute it to Love, as knowing
(173)
* in the great Distance of their Age, but to
* Pride; and perhaps that was really at the Bottom; for Stnmmia had given frequent In
* of her haughty Temper, sofar as to
* have disgusted many of the Ladies of the
* Court. At most, ’tis thought that her Pride
* was so incorporated with her Love, that she
* took the Effects of that for this.
‘ After a month’s Sickness, she began to re ‘ cover in her Health, but was not yet cur’d of
* her Passion for the King; which when she had
* got a little Strength, she made appear by the
* following Letters.
letter X
O I my cruel King!
‘ T Was in hopes, that before this time I * shou’d have been at Rest in my Grave, ‘ beyond the Power of Kings, beyond the
* Power of yet a greater Tyrant LOVE: But,
* alas! Fate has destin’d me to greater Evils ‘ yet; and I am doom’d to live ev’n when Life ‘ is lothfom; to love when I am hated! to ‘ live without Comfort, without Ease;; per ‘ petual Distjuiets, in continual Wishes and ‘ Dessres, without the least Dawn of Hope:
* Oh, most miserable Stremuma! thou hast no
* Refuge from thy Griefs! Hope, that vissts ot ‘ ten the most wretched, will never come to ‘ me; never flatter me with so much as empty ‘ and imaginary Joys to come: No, no, all my
I 3 ‘ Plea(
()
* Pleasures, all my Joys are gone, never more
* to return I I have been happy, ev’n to the
* Envy of the moll Fortunate, for I once was
* belov’d by Alphonfo. Ah, no! never truly ‘ lov’d by him; that had rais’d my Condition
, ‘ above Mortality : Yet I thought I was truly
* lov’d by him, and that gave me transports, ‘ Raptures, ne’er to be forgot while Thought ‘ remains : But, ah! why shou’d they not be
* Sorgot, Since the Memory of them aggravates
* my Misery?? Pains, my present Agonies,
* wou’d be more tolerable, cou’d I bury in per
* Oblivion the Thoughts that J nave ‘ been happy. Thou art most Sortunate, Sac ‘ clmene, who cou’d part with Such a Royal ‘ Charmer without a Pang! but she lov’d the
* Power, I the person; she lov’d the King, I
* Alphonfo. Oh! that he had not been a King, ‘ but some faithful Shepherd in the Mountains ‘ piping to his Flock, unknowing the Falfe ‘ nefs of Courts; then might I still have been ‘ blessed in his Arms. If, like Sacclimene., my pas ‘ fion were for Wealth and Dignity, I shou’d ‘ have no cause to complain; your Love and ‘ your Bounty have all along prevented rtiy *' Wishes, nay my Thoughts, which were northeast ‘ ver seton anything but yourself; If I had
* your Heart, I was rich enough, glorious ‘ enough, had Honours and Dignities suffi
* But, alas I I wish’d a treasure I never ‘ cou’d obtain; or if I did, it was like .a Fairy ‘ treasure, short, fleeting, and like a Dream :
* Oh! Dream Divine, thou art vanish’d; and ‘ I wake to Misery and distress, to all the grind ‘ ing Pains of a lasting Poverty, for Alphonfo has
‘ forsaken
i 175;
* forsaken me! has left me for another, who ‘ now has my Kisses, my Embraces, my Joys,
* my Transports 1 No, no, she has my Alphonfo
* indeed, but no Body can have my Raptures
* but one that loves like Stremuma, which no
* proud Cajiilian can do.
* But, my King, how durst you take to your ‘ bosom a prosest Enemy? My Prince, you are
* not Safe in her Arms, who may with So much
* ease destroy that precious Life on which the ‘ happiness of So many thousands depends!
* Alas, I tremble, I shiver at the Thoughts of
* what Such a favour’d Traitor may do : Avert
* it, Heaven! let me rather perish than hear
* of it; Oh, that my Life cou’d Secure yours
* anywhere but in her accursed Arms! But, I
* hope, Providence watches over your Safety z
* On! may you be Safe, may you be happy,
* whatever becomes of the poor forsaken Stre
* muni a,
*
* This Letter she, hythe Assistance of Ishmael
* convey’d to the King, but without any
* Answer, or the least Token of Kindness on
* his Reception of it, or afterwards; which ‘ was no little Mortification to our love fick
* Lady; who lov’d still, or fancy’d at least
* that she did so. However, she wou’d not yet
* give over writing, hoping that the Continu
* of her Passion, and her Sufferings, might
* in time have some better effect on the King,
* quite mistaking his Temper; for these amo
* difquiets of Stremuma, too often giving
* him an unwelcome Disturbance, rather lessen’d
, 14 ‘ his
(175)
* his Regard to her. And it is Seldom known ‘ that Love once at an end ever revives to the
* Same Perion: But that was a Reflection which ‘ never enter’d the Thoughts of Stremuma; she
* fore Sends him the following Letter.
o
. — i n ■.. ■■■ ■■ ■■ ■■■!■ ■ ■., i,
LETTER XL
* ]DE gone vain Memory of past Delights!
‘ why dost thou still pursue me? Why,
* oh, cruel King! will you not once See the
* Wretch you have made? Is it too much for ‘ you to grant one moment’s Interval of Woe?
* Do you fear that the Sight of me shou’d re
* your former Love? Ah I fear not that,
* my Prince, I am not that Stremunia I was when
* I mov’d your Inclination; all the roses of
* my Cheeks are faded, all dead and gone; the
* Fire of my Eyes extinguish’d, and nothing ‘ but an Ashy paleness covers my Countenance,
Sadness and Daily Sorrows deaden my Looks; ‘ you will find nothing that can move your ‘ Love, but Sure a great deal that may your
* Pity. Oh, how alter’d! oh, how chang’d ‘ from what I was when first I figh’d for Al ‘ phonfo! Pain I felt then, but it was a Pain
* with Hope, finding, as I thought, frequent ‘ Regards from your Royal Eyes, that flatter’d ‘ me I was not indisterent to you: For, my ‘ King, I lov’d you before you let me know ‘ that 1 was not disagreeable in your Sight. *
* I remem
( 177)
* I remember what Joy I felt, when almost
* all the People of Provence were in Tears for
* your leaving them for the haughty
* Joy, that I was to follow you to your new
* Kingdom; that I was not to stay behind; for
* all the pleasing Vales of Provence costd not ‘ afford Satisfaction when Aphonfo was gone.
* Ah, poor Stremuma! better had it been for
* thee, hadst thou never left thy own Country!
‘ Thou hadst indeed miss’d of the Happiness ‘ thou didst afterwards experience j but then ‘ thou hadst likewise efcap’d the Mi Sery thou ‘ dost now find! Short happiness, but lasting ‘ Woe!
* Oh, that I was again in Provence, far fronj
* the Cause of all my Pain I Ah, no, let me
* rather stay here, and be wretched still! per
* I may sometimes here get a Sight of
* Alphonfo! There never. Here he may some
* hear how I suffer for him, and so not ‘ forget me entirely. Here he may perhaps
* take me by the Hand when t am expiring,
‘ and perhaps kiss my cold Lips when I am
* dead. Oh, may I Soon find the King of Ter ‘ rors more willing to put an End to my Pain,
‘ than my King, my Alphonfo, is! Ah, vain
thy King, thy Alphonfo I he is thine ‘ no more; he is another’s now. Oh! torment
* Thought, it brings fresh Agonies upon
‘ me, and I am able to write no more -- -- -- -
The rest of my Book is So defective, that I can give thee, dear England, no more of these
Letters, nor Affairs, till I have procur’d ano
I 5 there
(178)
there Copy, of which I havetome afisutances. When 1 have it, it shall not be long before I communicate the Remainder to you, which by the Scraps that I have, 1 guess will be equally diverting. lam
Your sincere Friend and Servant,
Phillip Anecdot.
These Letters (Said the Baron) I find, forma Sort of Secret History; but I have seldom much Faith in those Historians who pretend to convey things of this Nature to Posterity. What Credit these Secret Histories (assum’d the Chevalier) may challenge, I do not know, yet they are always entertaining by their very Character. For my part (said Downright) I am such an Infidel to most Histories, that I can as easily shelieve these as any. Faith Jack ( Said I) I give not myself much Trouble to be very critical in the Veracity of Historians, provided they please me in their Narrations.
A
9
L E TI
^19)
L E T TER XII
Against Witches.
Iflo Mr. De whimsey, at his House in the
Wild of Kent.
Dear Whim,
T cou’d not but Smile at your last Letter, which brought me the Account of the great Witch in your Neighbourhood; and your Complaint of the Justice, who refus’d to make her Mittimus, notwithstanding the many Evidences against her. But I must applaud the Prudence and Justice of that Civil Magistrate, who, without doubt, was very well satisfied, that there was no such thing in Nature. And indeed, if there were, do 1 see low any Proof can be made of it, at least strong enough to. bear either a Judge or Jury out before God for condemning of her. First, the Matter of the evidence that is commonly given against thole unhappy poor Creatures, who are generally accused as Witches, is monstrousty ridiculous, and very often impossible, as well as derogatory from the Goodness and Power of God. The ignorant accuse the ignorant, and often, nay always give Siich a Power to the Devil and his Deputies the Witches, as belongs only to the Deity. Thus they make them change their Shape, and most commonly into Cats,,
I 6 shos
(io)
tho’ the humane Body be so much larger than that of a Cat; they likewiie make them pass through a keyhole, or a broken Pain of Glass, and sometimes through Doors and Walls, without the least Inlet of evsh a Crevice. Then they make them almost remove Mountains, whirl People from one Place to another, without any visible Vehicle, and yet the poor Witches themselves can’t convey themselves away from a Mob or a Constable. It is remarkable likewise, that we never hear of a Witch that is rich, they are all miserably Poor and in a starving Condition, tho’ the Devil be Lord of Wealth. But you Say, that many People Swear positively in the case of your Witch; and So they have in that of many others. But she makes People Spew Pins, Needles, and the like. Still this is no Proof, since Cheats of this Nature have been found out, as the Contrivances of others, and not the Effect of the witch’s Power j as about the Year 1702, a Waterman in South'ivarf'wns difcover’d by my Lord Chief Justice Holds Directions, who accus’d a poor Washer woman of having bewitch’d him, and accordingly vomited crooked Pins, and the like. The reverend Mr. Martin then of St. Savioufs made the first step in the discovery; when the Person pretending to be bewitch’d, foratch’d another Woman in the Dark, and thinking it to be her whom he accus’d, pretended to recover from his present Fit. This Imposture was carried sofar, as to bring in the woman’s Husband as a witness against her, tho’ innocently enough in him, for he only Swore that she got up
every
(ii)
every Morning by Four a clock, which she did to go to her Washing, tho’ it was urg’d by her Accusers, that it was to go to her Diabolical Meetings. And had a Judge less circum spect: than my Lord Chief Justice Hoh heard the Cause, it might have went hard with her 5 but by his Care the Imposture was found out, the poor Woman acquitted, and the Rogue
punish’d.
I know that those who have written in the Affirmative of this Argument urge, that several who have been executed for Witchcraft, have own’d their Guilt before their Death:. But I must reply, that these have been forc’d to it by the Tortures they have been put to; by the same Means wou’d confess anything, thinking Death the more eligible Evil, as putting an end to their excessive Pains here.
But they have own’d their nocturnal Meetings, and riding through the Air to adore and feast with the Devil, in the Shape of a Goat. But this might be the Effect of a strong Imagination, and certainly was So, ssnce those who have been strictly watch’d the whole Night, and had Witnesses that they never stir’d out of the Place where they lay, have yet, when they wak’d, asserted the Same thing of their aerial Journey.
I have been inform’d, that in the houses of one of these reputed Witches in France, there were Some Bottles of Ointment found, and the Physicians of Paru guessing it to be of a Sort of intoxicating Nature, try’d the Experiment on two or three Malefactors, that were condenan’d
to Death. They caus’d a good Fire to be
made,
(i82)
made, and then the Malefactors to be anointed all over with this Medicament. They first grew drowsy, and fell a sseep, in which they got up and run up and down the Room for sometime, and then fell all down on the Floor, and lay there till the Morning; when coming to themselves, they told the Company that they had flown over Hills and Dales, had fed well with the Devil, and all the usual story of the Witches.
I remember when I was in Flanders, I saw one Witch burnt in this Manner: In the Marketplace there was erected a Scaffold or Stage, which being cover’d about a Foot deep with Sand, the Stake and Faggots were fixed on it; and a poor old decrepit Woman was bound to It, and burnt. The People had a thousand Stories of what she had confess’d by the Force of the Prelence of the Host, or Sacrament of the Eucharist 5 and that she had foretold, that all who saw her Execution, shou’d be fill’d with Lice, and all the holy Water pots in the Town shou’d be fill’d with Blood, But nothing of this came to pafs, the poor Creature was Soon dead, and there was an end of that Sham. But the Popish Priests are fond of these Executions, and never fall of Inventing stories enough, both of the Confessions and lying Wonders of these miserable Creatures.
What a noise was there about one Grandler an honest Priest of Lndun, who was burnt in a Solemn Manner, for being a, Conjurer? The Nuns were taught their Tricks, which were various Distortions of the Body, in which
they
( i83)
they at last arriv’d to a tolerable Perfection, by the Instruction of their Father Confestbr, who was Grandiefs inveterate Enemy. These Nuns accus’d this poor Priest as having bewitch’d them, and putting them in these (donvullions, whenever they were exorcis’d. This Piece of Malice was secretly abetted by the Cardinal Richelieu, who never forgave a Foe, nor miss’d someway or other of being reveng’d upon him. This was Gmndiefs Fate, and he at last was, after a formal Trial, condemn’d and burnt for a Conjurer. There is a Book writteii upon this Subject, which I recommend to your reading; it is in English, and is call’d, The Devils oj Lodun. That alone, I dare believe, will give you enough of this Affair of Witchcraft, if not, pray read Mr. Matherds xdccount of the Witches of Neu' england, which tho’ he pub lifh’d to justify the Regency of that Place, (I mean the Judges in this Cafe) plainly poves, that they proceeded without Justice or Reason, as will appear from the Reply of one of the unhappy Woman who fuffer’d. It was sworn against her, that she came in at a Window, and did such and Such Mischief to a young Woman in a certain Chamber. My Lords, Said the suppos’d Witch, if my likeness was Seen in this Manner, it must be the Devil who had taken my Shape, and well might he take my Shape who am a Sinner, Since he cou’d sake that of Samuel a Prophet of the Lord at the Witch of Endofs.
The Judges made no material answer to this Saying of the Criminal, but, in fpigbt of
that
(i84)
that and common Sense, condemn’d her to be
burnt.
This had run sofar at last, that they began to bring in Ibme of their Clergy, and then a stop was put to the Madness, and we heard no more of the Witches of New-england.
But it wou’d be endless to pursue this Subject, Since the Impostures of this Kind have been very numerous, nay, as numerous as the Persons who have fuffer’d for this Crime in all the Nations of the Earth.
I bave not room for more j but if you are still for believing in this pow’r of the Devil, enjoy your Fancy. I am
Your humble Servant,
Abraham Godlov'e.
Whether there are Witches or not (said I) that is, poor miserable Creatures, who have sold their Souls to the Devil, I think a dispute not worth entering upon. It is however (assum’d the Baron) very strange, that the Devil, who has So much Gold at his command, shou’d let his Servant starve. Nay, shaid the Chevalier) his Wages are So bad, that I fancy he will have but few Guests at his nocturnal Orgies, Why truly (concluded Downright) the Rc' ward of a good and religious Life ev’n here, is So very much preferable, that if there are any Witches, they must be look’d on as Idiots, and So ought to escape Punishment here at
least 5
( 1^5)
least; for Madmen are only punish’d by Confinement, a dark Room, Straw and a
Whip.
LETTER XIII
ijhe chinese fortuneteller,
tio Antony Foresight Esq; to he left at the Devil Tavern, near Temple bar, London.
T Have almost finish’d my Chinese fortuneteller * the engujh Tongue. I believe it will surprise you to find all the Secrets of Bshturity discover’d with that ease, with which it is done in this Book. I will Spoil the Market of most of our London Dablers in Nativities, Horary (^estions, and the like, by rend ring every one capable of knowing his own Fortune. I intend to publish it as soon as it is perfect, and then a little Experience will show, that my Labour and Pains have not been thrown away. lam,
SIR,
Your most humble Servant,
eeenclearsicht.
0
\
( i s6)
What (said the Baron) have we more of these foolish Shams of Fortunetelling to come? Ay, ay, (said the Chevalier) as long as there are Fools enough to give credit to what is Said on that Subject, you need not doubt but that there will be Some who will write upon it. They may write (Said Downright) as long as they please; but I promise them, 1 shall never buy nor read any of their Books of that Kind. Nor I neither (Said I) for I am Satisfied in two Things, first, not to trouble myself with what is to come, which I am sure 1 can’t tell; and that those who pretend to know it, are as ignorant as myself.
f.
9
V
» '
L E T
J
%
i
I
( 18y)
m
4 S
m
LETTER XIV
%
On Matrimony and Love.
Po Sir John Amorous, to be left at White j Chocolate houle in St. jamesvstreet, London. ^
My dear Knight,
Your Letter of the 19th came not to my Hands till yesterday, plfe you had Sooner heard from me on the Subject: of yours, I mean on your intended Marriage; But I hope this may come time enough to be useful to you; for perhaps what I have to say may fta^er your Resolution, tho’ I confess, when once a young Fellow is seton Wedlock or any other mad Frblick, it is in vain to think of reasoning him out of it; for had he not shaken Hands with reason, he wou’d never have entertain’d Such a resolution.
However, I shall Send you the Reflections that have hitherto kept me out of that holy Noose. Were I to reason like a Politician, I confess, I fhou’d be as warm for it, as I am now against it; for the World must: be peopled, and the Race of Mankind be kept up, which a gcr neral Celibacy wou’d in one Generation destroy. Not but the World might be peopled without Marriage, at least: that Sort of Marriage in use in our Parts of Europe, where one to one is curfedly confid’d, as old Dryden has it.
And there are or have been Countries (as Sparta
for
fis)
for one) where all Copulations were lawful, and the Off spring taken for the Children of the. Public, and accordingly educated by the State. But these Customs are look’d upon as Heathen, and we are on the contrary oblig’d to he ty’d to one Wife ttu Death does ta part. Terrible Words, my Friend, and hard Condition, which has no Regard to humane Frailty, and the changeableness of all. Mankind ot both Sexes, who are this Day fond of what the next renders odious. Methinks the Legistators (many of whom feel the Hardship of the present course) should allow us at least a Year of Probation, to See how our Tempers agree, which it is impossible to know, till living together discovers it. You come to your mis tress, during your Courtship, gay and in good-humour yourself, and find her no less So, and fet off to all the Advantage that Art can add to Nature, which take my Word for it, my Friend, osten gives the better half 5 but when Distance is remov’d, and you come to a closer and more constant View; when you are with her all the Day and every Day, nay and all the Night too, you will See another Scene open, and all the desects of Perion and Mind reveal themselves in Such a Manner, that you are amaz’d how you cou’d have been So damnably deceiv’d, as to take a Devil for an Angel. But alas, there is no Remedy; ’tis Death, only Death can Jtgn your Quieim. All you can hope for, is, that your Wife will (if she have Sense) endeavour to deceive you still, and So make herself at least tolerable.
This Maxim you must always follow, to have an implicit Faith in your spouse’s Virtue,
let
Am
let her Conduct be never so rufpicious, whict. puts me in mind of an excellent Song of my Friend Cheelfs, and which I send you for jtbur Instruction and Comfort.
love’s a Dream of mighty Treasure,
Which in Fancy we Pojjefs
In the Folly lies the Pleasure,
Wisdom ever makys it leys.
When vie think., hy Paffon heated.
We a Goddess have in Chase,
Like Ixion Ue are cheated.
And a gaudy Cloud embrace.
Only happy is the Lover
Whom the Fair one "well deceives.
Seekiytg nothing to difeover.
He contented lives at Ease.
But the Fool that ivoicd he knowing What the Fair one would disguise.
Vainly seeks hit own undoing.
Changing happy to he ‘wife.
>
So that Credulity, which a prudent Man fhou’d always avoid in the rest of the Conduct of his Life, is here the greatest Prudence: Wretched State, my Friend, which has all its Support, or at least all Its Comfort built on a Folly.
Methinks Ihere find you making a great deal of bustle with Love! You tell me I know nothing of that divine Passion, nor give any Allowances to it. That Love makes all Things pleasant and easy, nay transporting. Pretty
Fan
{190)
indeed, these are for Girls and youn .<riiows, who throw their Time away in reac ing Romances; it is indeed a Kickshaw drefs’ up in France, the Whimfey ot the French Wr ters, and not to be • found anywhere but i Caiprenede, Scudery, and the other unnatura Scribblers of Volumes of no manner of ul to the Readers. They have indeed fill’d they Books with this Sort of Love, which consist only in Talk; and so unnatural, that a spanij Lady reading in them, found when the Lovei had gain’d an Interview with great Hazard and Difficulties,, she threw away the preciot Time in Chit-chat, which she thought migh be better employed, and more agreeably t the Nature of Love: They are got together said she, ‘tehat Occasion for talking? implyiii:
this Truth, that the Love between the Sexe was Lust with a Ibfter Name; and this wa the Opinion of the Ancients, as is plain sign all they have written on this Subject.
In Farias Ignemque ruunt Amor ommhw Idem,
\
says Lucretim, by that putting the Love of al Animals on the same Bottom, the Desire o Copulation. The God of Love, the Latin call’d Cupid or Cupido, which is Lust or the Desire of Enjoyment. And let our Ladies fa] what they please, and put on what demure anc Severe Airs they please, what they mean b; love is the Same. There was a rich citizen’s young Daughter, who fell So much in Lovt with her Mufick mafter a Foreigner, that, to Siv( his daughter’s lise, the Father was content u
tub
(IPI)
take him for his Son in i..aw, and accordingly made the Motion to him, and inform’d him of his daughter’s Passion; and told him, when he found him declare against Marriage, that he shou’d have a very considerable Fortune with her: On which the Musician was so honourable as to let the old Gentleman know, that he cou’d not in Gratitude make so ill a Return to the young Lady as to marry her, since he had the Misfortune of being incapable of performing the Duty of a Husband.
Care was taken to convey this to the amorous Lady, who, notwithstanding the violence of her Love for him, cou’d not resolve to wed only the Picture or Image of a Man, and foin a little Time came to herself, and has since married a more substantial Husband.
Now, my Friend, had Love been what these whimsical Persons make of it, something different from the Joys of the Marriage Bed, she might have persevered in her Passion for the Fiddler, since he cou’d talk to her, fing to her, fiddle to her, nay, and kiss her too, as eagerly as any other Man cou’d. From hence 1 draw this Truth, that you have a strong Desire of enjoying your Mistress; no more my dear Knight, which when sufficiently satisfied, she will have no more Charms than the rejfc have had in the same Circumstances; but you cannot get so easily rid of her when you are weary, and find nothing new in her Person or Mind. No, you must still have her in your Bosom, you must think of no other, much less give a loose to your Appetite; you must eat of no other Dish, tho’ the finest Food in the
World
( 192)
World were Set before you. Well, but yc know yourself, you are constant by Natun she has all you can desire, and you shall no change no more. I wish you may not stath yourself with a Virtue that is not yours, s least, I am Sure you cannot be certain of it tii you have try’d; and it is a terrible Experimer on yourself, to risk the Happiness of you Life on a (Dhance, when it is ten to one yo throw out. You have no great Reason fror your past Conduct, to hope for what you hav never yet found. You have been in Lov with accomplish’d Beauties, you have foun them easy and complaisant to your Desire and yet you have chang’d j the next Face tha you lik’d, extinguish’d your Flame with a neti one; but now you are grown constant, that if in Imagination. Be it so; but are you sure tha she will be So too? You know what Virgil Says
-- -- Varium Qp mtitahile semper
femina— — — -- -- -- --
‘ a various and a changeful Thing.
0
Do you think you shall find her always lib and love you? never admit any wand’rins Thoughts, nor view any other Object witl Desire? ne’er listen to the Flatteries of the young and the gay, who will be afifiduous ir their Addresses, take all Opportunities of plea fing her, be Slaves to her Will, while you an indifferent; and, because your own, make ust now of none of those Endearments that sir engag’d her Heart to you? You no longer
*
C IP)
watch the Motions of her Eyes, and thence catch the Occasion of obeying her, even before her Lips have pronounc’d her Commands; you no longer gaze on her whole Hours with Transport, hear her speak with Rapture, nor kiss her with Fire; when you embrace her, your Heart does not bounce against your Breast, nor does your Soul mount up to your Eyes. All is calm and cold, Civility now takes the place of warm transport, which yet stie finds in others; and therefore concludes that you do her an Injury, and pay not that Tribute to her Charms which they still deserve. what’s the consequence of this but Revenge? and what’s a wife’s Revenge but Cuckoldom for the Husband? If after all this you are bound obstinately for the Port of Matrimony, why un bon Voyage, my dear Knight, a prosperous Gale and unrustled Seas attend you, ' ’tis a long Voyage, and the Winds and Waves very fickle; your best way is to take her out of the Sea of Temptation, that wicked Town of London, where there are So many Pirates resort, that at is ten to one is Some dostnot board your Pinnace. Go down into North wales, and there let her cure her poor Neighbours broken Shins and Scald Heads; and So employ her Time more innocently, if not with So much Diversion. I will not in sure your Cargo for all this Caution, yet it is the best I can give you. Mirabel was my particular Friend, a young Fellow of.a great deal of Wit and fine sense, as well as Learning; he was the Darling of all that knew
K him.
A ip;
him, and made a .Figure at Wilfs and in St, steven’s Chapel; but he had an old Father who minded not the Praises of his Son so much as to let him long enjoy the Place and Sort of Life that acquir’d them; no, Mirabel was an Elder Brother, his Father old, and the keeping up of the Family was now his Duty. The old Gentleman gets him a Country Lady for a Wife, with a good Fortune. Mirabel obeys this Call with fonie Reluctance, but Necestity will have it so; his Opinion of the Sex gives him no great prospect of Pleasure and Happiness in the holy State; but he relblv’d to arm the best he could against the worst Effects of an Evil he could not avoid. He leaves the Town, the Conversation of the Gay and the Witty, and retir’d into the countr^itjmarry’d, and there has remain’d ever stnce, shajting no more notice of his Friends than if he had none; his only Company now is his Wife, his Children, his Books, and a Pipe of Tobacco; he is grown very religious, Says Prayers every Night to his Family, and with them goes constantly to Church. there’s your Example, Knight, follow it, and if it make you not very happy, it will keep you, perhaps, from being very miserable; and that’s a pretty good hit, considering how the World goes, and the vain Cares which disturb Mankind. But all my Fears may be vain, and you may meet with a Lucretia. Yet Julius Cafar, with all his Accomplishments of Mind and person, had the infamous Clodius found in his House among
the Women, the Chief of whom was his
Wife.
I
Wife. I have no more to Say at present to' you on this Head. So wishing you a great deal of Joy, I am
Your faithful Friend and Servant,.
William Free love.'
What an Harangue (said dou'wnghfj is here against Marriage! he may be a Wit for ought I know, for I think the Wits always laugh and ' rail at Religion and Wedlock; but I am Sure he has as little Wisdom as Love for his Country, or humane Society, which is supported by Marriage. I seldom have known (assum’d I) one of thrse Wits a very eminent Patriot. And yet they aii marry at last,
J) — — purring, like a thoughtful Cat,
marry’d, hut udfer Puss ne’er thought of that,
said one of them, yet afterwards marry’d three times. Ay, ay shaid the Baron) this Sort of Railing is only a Trick of Youth; but when we come to Maturity, we all become the Subject of our own Jests. In my Opinion (said the Chevalier) ridiculing and railing at Institutions, that spread through all Mankind, is no more a Proof of Wit than Honesty, but gives shrewd
suspicions of both.
K 2 LET
\
()
L E T T E R XV
of Gentility, c.
Lo Mr. Pedigree, at his House near Canterbury, Kent.
Good Sir,
YD U R Letter about the Slight you imagin’d put on you by the Corporation of Maidjion, has given me some Chagrin, because I am sensible that the Reason of your mif carriage in your Pretensions was not what you suppose, nor, indeed, any Slight at all; for your Antagonist has been a great Benefactor to the Town; and it had not been Gratitude to have rejected him for a Stranger. Know, you have not been long a fettl’d Inhabitant of Kent, tho’ you have now purchas’d a good Estate there. You say, your Antagonist is an Upstart, of no Family, the Son of a Cit, and the like. Ah! Sir, I am Sorry to find you in the Number of those who value themselves on an ancient Race; I believe it only the effect of Resentment; for you know what the Poets have justly Said upon this sub ject.
Qui Germs iabat suum, aliena laudat. And Et Genius SF Proavos, & quce non fedmm ipft
Vix ea nojira voco - And
Nohilitas sola eji atyue mica Vhctui.
Virtue
( 197)
Virtue is the only Nobility, and she who boasts an old Family, boasts of another’s Merit, not his own. Ovid, who was himself of the Equejirian Order, makes the wife Ldyjjis speak the Second Quotation. As for my Pedigree and Ancestors, and what I have not persorm’d myself, I Scarce call them mine. For, indeed, what Merit can I boast, in having had one of my Family, Some hundreds of Years ago, who rais’d himself above the Level of the common People, by his own Actions, or his prince’s Favour, if I do nothing myself, to show I deserve to be of his Race and share his Honours? This Antiquity of House is a mere Chimaera, and peculiar indeed to none; for could we trace the poorest Wretch in the Parish to his Original, we might, perhaps, find a Prince or King of his Blood. We know that the Family of the illustrious David, King of Israel, was sunk to a Carpenter, in the Husband of the holy Virgin Mother.
Then for your Upjiarts, your Novi Homines, the Romans, indeed, in the Days of their foolish Pride and little Merit, call’d all Such as made a considerable Figure in the Commonwealth, and could not produce the pibos Vultm of their Ancestors longo Ordine, as Juvenal has it, a long Train of their fore fathers Statues, who, in the Time of the first Consul, at least in the Carthaginian War, had done Something worth taking notice of. Thus they reproach’d Cicero with being an Upstart or Novtts Homo, tho’ one of the greatest Men that the Age he liv’d in produc’d, and meriting to be put in the same
k3 Class(
()
withbr«f»/, Cato, and Cefar ^ for, besides his Services to the State, in the dangerous Affiir of cataline’s Confptrary, in which he ati^ tain’d the Appellation of Father of his Country, and deserv’d if, since he sav’d it from a shameful Destruction; he has transmitted to Posterity the only Proof that the Roman Eloquence excell’d that of the Greeks. What was the first of the Arfadda but a poor Shepherd, and yet got to the Head of the Panhians, and fettled their Empire in Such a manner as to make it a Terror to the Romans, who were not able to revenge the Death of Crajfus, and the loss of his whole Army, in many Years; for what Anthony did against them, was, at, most, but a Saving Gabie.
But our Gentry, out Distinction of Gentleman, Scarce ever had So teafonable a rise, nor So noble, as that of the Notniity of the Greeks and Romans. In those Commonwealths it was either Some brave Action against the Enemy, or eminent Justice, Virtue or Ability, that rais’d one Man above another; Wealth had no Share in it. For Athens paid more Deference to Arijiides in extreme Poverty, than to Callias with all his Riches, and whom they were about impeaching, for letting his Friend arijudes want when he abounded, and ow’d great Part of his Abundance to his Favour, during the several Magistracies he had gone through in that City, without the least Profit to himself.
This was the way in those Commonwealths; but I fear it will be a hard Matter for the
best
{ 299)
best of our old Families to prove their Rise so honourable, under the kingvs, from which Fountain they derive their modern Distinction. I will not say as ./eneoi Sylxms (who was afterwards Pope Pm IV that most of the Nobility had been rais’d more for their Wickedness than their Virtues, for Some had for their Founders Pimps, Court Parasites, usurers, and the like. He was a Man of the Family of the Picolhuomlni, Sufficiently known to be of Figure in Italy.
But I would Sain know of you who it is, that ever alks the (^eftion, when a Man has a good Estate, whether he came in with the Conquest or not? and who pay’d less respect to Sir H. F. because his Mother was an Apple Woinand not one but a Coxcomb; he was receiv’d and caress’d by the greatest of our Quality and statesmen, for he had personal Merit, by which he rose, and render’d himsels not only useful, but necestary to his Country in difficult Times.
I would not have you believe that I have one jot the worse Opinion of myself, because my great Grandfather, or his Father (Sori am not So very learned in my Genealogy as to determine) was a poor Taylor in the Country near one Hundred Miles from London. No, 1 value him the more, who jumpt srom his shop board into the Arms of a considerable heiress, and So became a Gentleman; his Son married a young Lady of one of the most ancient Families in those Parts, and So confirm’d our Gentility; but then my Father
K 4 tool:
*
( 200)
took up with the Bastard of a certain wealthy Knight by an Herb Woman; but having a good Fortune, and a great deal of Beauty, marry’d her, and So produc’d your humble Servant.
You may, perhaps, mistake me, by what I have said, for a mere Leveller', but none is farther from it. I am not for destroying suh 9rdination, without which no Government can Sublist 3 but I am as far from thinking that this Subordination consists in this Point of Antiquity of Family, and the contrary; but in the various Magistrates, their Substitutes, and the People governed. As for the other Part, which consists in Rich and Poor, in those who labour and those who enjoy what they have without their personal working, that will always be; for the mutual Benefits they receive from each other, with the Demands of humane lise, will make themr always necefifarily fubfist as long as there is Property, and this as fully, if there were no Gentleman of an antienter Date than this present Year, as if they had all such ancient Pedigrees, as would puzzle a German or Welsh Genealogist to trace them a thousand Years a piece.
In short, this Pride of Birth is the Refuge of Idleness, of Sloth, and all manner of bafe nefs. Throw it away therefore, if you are wise, or would be thought so; for it is contemptible in itself, and makes those, who value it, So in the Eyes fall Men of common-sense. If you had no other Merit than that
peculiar
( I)
peculiar to your own Person, I should be asham’d to Subferibe myself, as 1 do,
Aour jnojl humble Servant
and hearty Friend.
harryallike.
This Gentleman (said I) Sems to have too little a value for the Prerogative of great Birth. Not at all (reply’d Downright) you find he only fights against it as it stands Separately from all other Worth. No, (afsuhi’d the Chevalier) and that is a Sovereign Truth that hinders not the Advantages that Birth gives, when join’d with other Merits. And that’s as much as can with reason be requir’d (concluded the Baron) and it is to no purpose to strive for more in this Country; in France and Spain this Doctrine would be loqk’d on as a Sort of an heresy.
J
«
K y L E T
4
.0 y
( 202)
# .................................. —
LETTER XVI
of Benefit and Gratitude,
Sto Mr. jeost’ry Purfeproud, at his House in
cheap fide, London.
My good Friend Jeoffrv,
"lour late Complaints of my Ingratitude to you, has given me some Uneallnefs) and made me resolve to send you this Letter, to remove So disagreeable an Imputation. I am afraid that you do not sufficiently know the Condition of Benefits j and that you will never be able to judge how far a Man proves grateful or ungrateful. I have not Seneca by me, who has written largely on this Subject,, so that I shall be content with what my own Reason suggests. A Benefit, to lay an Obligation on a Man, must, first of all, be just, that is, without Injury to any one; it must be done easily, without long and tedious Solicitations; eafly, for there are a sort of Men, who may be wrought upon to do a Favour, and yet in the doing of it difeover So much un willingness and Chagrin, that it cannot be very much valu’d by the Receiver; nay, I have known a Gentleman oblige his Friend more the manner of his Denial, than another
did at the Same time by granting his Request.

With
( 203)
Without: long Solicitations, for there are Other Men who do Favours, but make you pay Such an Extortion of attendant Dependance, so tedious a Sulpence between Hopes and Fears, that what they do at last makes not amends for the Trouble of obtaining it, and very often wears out the Benefit, by the Inconvenience which so long waiting for it brings with it: And this is the Method of Courtiers, where the Suitor has not Bribe enough to purchase a Dispatch;; but others likewise have the Same Vice, from a Love of Seeing a long Train daily attend their Levees; but these are Men who have but little Claim to Gratitude.
There are Men too, rich Men like yourself, Jeojfry, who think they infinitely oblige, even when they lend Money on good Security, and shall be vain enough to boast that they have oblig’d Mr. Such a one very much; whereas every Money Scrivener and usurer has the Same Pretence.
There are Some who do real Benefits; but then they expect that the Person oblig’d should be perpetually at their Command, think as they think, and do whatever they ssiall order thenr. But these, in my Mind, deserve less Gratitude than any, for they buy our Liberty, a Blefiing more valuable than lise; they do for you, but it is that you ever after shall be their Slave.
Find me a Man that bellows a Favour freely, just w’hen it is wanted; nay, that prevents your Demand, and then forgets the Good he
K 6 has
(204)'
has done himself; or, if he remembers it, it is only in the Satisfaction he has of having done a good or generous Action; and not to pay all Acknowledgments to such a one, is to be truly, that is, monstrously ingrateful.
Titus qainbius f/aminius was one of this Itind, whoitooksuch Pleasure in doing Good to others, that he thought himself oblig’d to the Man who receiv’d a Benefit from him; and he was an Enemy to none but such as did prevent his Generosity by doing a Favour himself;; he thought that by that means he was rob’d of an Opportunity of exerting his darling Quality of Beneficence.
But alas! there have been few great and powerful Men who have had his Temper, which makes him, to me, seem the most valuable Character in all the Roman History.
But of all Men there are none less fit for
• * P
Friends or Benefactors, than Scholars and Wits, especially Poets (I mean as they are now a days) it is a hard Matter to engage them at all; and yet more difficult to engage th&m to extend their Assistance, I mean, their Mediation (for they are Seldom qualified with Ability to be benefactors.in their own Persons) whether it be out of self opinion that makes them think little of other People, or that they imagine a Small Matter, by their means, Sufficient for the greatest: Distress. The Gown knows little of Generosity or Charity, or any. practical Virtue.
But to come to yourself, you will find you are not forgot in this List; you have lent
me
f ^
(205)
nie Money, but not without Security; you may say, perhaps, the Security is not so good but that you were fain to call in your Inclinations to serve me to make you part with it. I will not contest that Point, for I hope your Kindness for me had a Share in what you did; however, I have not fail’d in my Payments, or in my respect: for you. If you have heard otherwise, assure yourself I am highly injur’d by the Malice of the Reporter: for I am fineerely,
yoy.r oblig’d
humble Servant,
William Trusty.
There is, indeed (Said the Baron) no Talk of humane lise more difficult than this of
r
Benefits. I confess (aflum’d the chevauerj the want of considering it well has rais’d more Complaints of Ingratitude than are just; you shall scarce meet with a Man but has fuffer’d (if you believe him) by the Ingrateful. But that is only a Pretence to avoid doing some Favour or other in his Power. Nay, I have a better Opinion (said I) of Mankind, than to think that Vice so general as ’tis made. How general it is (concluded Downright) I will not pretend to determine; but sure I am, that a Man of any Figure and Conversation in the World will find too frequent Instances of it in all Degrees, and generally in them most wh© complain most of it.
The End of the Third Book.
( 2o5)
BOOK IV
LETTER I.
To My. Fickle, at Mr. Loveith House near
Dover, Kent.
Oh! dear Mr. Fickle,
have basely left me, j^m after all your Vows and protes
fp^ tatlons j after you have betray’d
me to Folly; and bequeath’d ^ iqj^g Puniffiment for my easy Faith : I find myself with Child, and hope you will have the Justice to contrive some Means of my being convey’d from my Friends, to conceal my Shame; elfe you may, perhaps, be the Cause of a double Murder, that of my Infant, and of
Your unfortunate,
A.. L
%
()
Here is another Scene of Ingratitude (Said
the Baron) But one (affum’d the Chevalier) that is very .common in this wicked Age. As common as it is (Said Downright) I think it deserves an ade<]uate Punishment. That Affair is very little taken care of by our Legislators, who have been very hard upon the weaker Sex, and leave the guilty Man at Liberty to betray and ruin Hundreds, without So much as the Punishment of Scandal; for even the Women like a young Fellow never the worse for having had a Bastard or two laid to him. That is but a poor Help (Said I) to the Woman, that her Oath will fix the Charge of the Child on the Man, which, for a little Money, he puts off to be starv’d; but her Reputation is gone for ever. And this I take to be the Cause of so many young Whores making Abortions, or murdering of them when born. In other Countries they have Receptacles of all the Byblows of the Place, where they are bred up and put to Trades, when big enough.
■ ■■■ .■i«, ni, ■■■„ im, fcii mmarnimiti n imm
%
.7
£
LET(
()
»
II
Lo Mrs. Florella Gaywit, at her Lodgings
m — — jstreet, Westminster.
Fair Floreiu, I know you expect to hear from me in my absence, and I know that I ought to write: But what to write I confess 1 do not know; for to tell you that I love you, is what you know; to tell you that I long to posfess all your Beauties, I tell you no more than what you easily believe, since it is the natural consequence of my loving you; But to tell you that I will always be constant, would be to Say what you will not with So little Difficulty give Credit to, or, perhaps, desire should be true; I shall therefore only Say, that I will be constant as long as you would have me So, and when you are willing that I should be no longer So, I will endeavour to change that Virtue for Some other that will be more agreeable to you at that Time. I could protest my Constancy should last as long as lise, that Streams should run back to their Springs, the Planets invert their course and Ipoil the Music of the Spheres, the Moon cease to change, and a thousand Such common Places of vulgar Lovers; but I fancy what I have laid will (is you are that Woman of Wit I take you to be please you better. I Wf., makecove like a Gentleman, those Fops like
Pedants;
ha
vfv r •
C 20p)
Pedants; if you approve my Method, you may hear more from
Your faithful Lover,
Complaisant Jack.
This Gentleman (Said the Baron) shows us a Lover who has the pleasure of Love without the Pains. And, perhaps (affum’d the Chevalier) takes a shorter Road to the Aim of his Desires, than by a whining Address, especially, if the Lady be of a gay Temper. But (Said I) it osten happens that these gay and airy Lasses are won with more Difficulty than the grave ones, who love to hear of the Power of their Eyes, and the Pangs they give their Adorers. For my Part (concluded doww/ght) it is my Opinion, that ail that depends on Chance, Opportunity, and Importunity; for the veriest Coquet in Nature lays aside her false Advances when those come in Play.
LET
g
f 210)
LETTER III
7e Mr. Thomas Gripus at his Chambers in furnivalvinn, in Holborn, London.
Tom,
Here was young Ned Truant last Week, wh© was very lavish in your Praise, as of a fine yoaug Gentleman, which I do not like; I had rather it had been of a hopeful young Attorney: But considering whom the Praise came from,, an idle young Rake, it gives me an Idea of your Conduct, which I do by ho
Means approve. A fine young Gentleman, is, in
my Sense, a fine ass, a Fellow that will never get, but Spend an Estate; if you continue thus, I am refolv’d you slant Spend mine, which has been got by great Industry, and other Maxims than those of affine Gentlemari. In short, Tom, thou dost not Seem to know the World, thou must love no Man, no nor Woman, believe no Man, trust no Man, except on treble Security, do Service to no Man,. unless thou can’st get by it thyself. Mind not thy Bottle; or when thou dost drink, let it be with thy Clients,, and they will pay for it; study all the Cunning of thy Profession, and make thy own Benefit the wise Aim of all thy Actions. Keep no poor Company, there is nothing to be got by that. Be no peacemaker, that is against thy Interest; thou must live and grow rich by discord, not Amity. I Sent you
Orders
(211)
Orders three Posts ago, to have that Scoundrel; Barefive arrested; instead of which you Send me word that he is poor, has not wherewithal to pay me, if in my debt, and that be Says he discharg’d what you demanded when I was last in Town. If he cannot produce my Acquittance, arrest him; if he canst pay me, let him rot in a Gaol, I know no Compastion in these Cafes; in a Prison, perhaps, he may find Some Fool or other that may pay my Debt, since it is under forty Shillings. I therefore give you my positive and repeated Order not to Ipare him,, as you will avoid the Anger of
Your loving Father,
Gabriel Gripus.
Here is an old miserable Dog for you (Said I) who has Ib much of the Devil in him now he is so near his Grave. The more for that (said. the Baron) for the nearer to Hell,, the riper for Hell. That he is no Chrijiian is plain, from the Maxims he preaches to' his Son, which are truly diabolical, and opposite to those of Jefia Chriji,. What an inhumane Dog is he (purfu’d. Downright) to put a poor' Creature in a Gaol for less than forty Shillings,, and' which, in' all likelihood, he has paid!
This is one of the Grievances (said the chevalier) of your e«^/i/& Liberties, where every Man can ruin his Neighbour, by claping Actions on him without Ground or Justice. If People must lose their Freedom for Debt, and Suffer for missortunes, certainly the Plaintiff ought to prove hfedebt besore he takes that? way. LE TX
( 212)
... ■■■ ■!■■ .'I... ... ■■ ■ — — — ^ imrnnmmttrnm
LETTER IV
Jo Mr. Galliard, at ibis House near Fevers
sham in Kent.
"My old Friend Galliard,
I Was not a little surpriz’d at your last Letter to your Nephew, when he shew’d it to me. What! has the Kentijh Air quite chang’d you? Is all your gay Humour fled, and is your Blood all curdl’d with the aguish Temperament of the Soil you are retired to? Nay, have ypu left your Reason at the Same time you left Londonl But why all this Indignation at Plays? Have you lately been reading Prynn, and his Copyist of a contrary Kidney? Tlshe Invectives against the Stage, which we have had in England, have been given us first: by a sort of mad. Enthu*
Hast, wbo at the Same time that he contemn’d
*. «
the Fathers in all other religious disputes, builds all his Hijiriomajirix on their Authority
misunderstood, and misapply’d. The other great Enemy of the Drama, is a most violent Jacobite, a Laudean in the highest: Degree, who forgetting the Favour the Martyr, and Archbishop Laud, with the most: Celebrated of the Clergy of those Times, bestow’d upon these Diverstons, joins Anti monarchical Prynn against them.
But it is no hard Matter to find the true Reason of the Rage of the latter against the
Theatre;
( 213)
Theatre; for though he carry the Pace of Zeal for Religion in his Book, the real cause was, by putting an end to Plays, to make the People uneasy; Since he knew what the ingenious Harrington observ’d, that you wou’d in vain perswade the People that they are free, while you depriv’d them of those innocent Diver* sions to which they were So inclin’d. And Collier thought that if Plays were in vogue in King jvilliam’s Reign, it wou’d look to be on a Foot too pleasing tor his Hopes.
I cannot but smile to See that his Book found So many Advocates, even of those who most frequented the piayhouse, and who yet wereevcry Night in the Boxes or the Pit. But we have a whimsical Town. Well, what was the Event of all this Clamour? Why, Collier got a great deal of Money by what he writ against: Plays, and the Players got better Audiences.
I cannot omit one Remark on h: s Book. He begins it with assuring us, that the Wit of Man cannot find out any Means more conducive to the promoting of Virtue, and the banishing of Vice, than the Drama; and yet at the End, he gives you a whole Crowd of the Fathers to prove that there should be no Such thing at all in a Christian Country; that is, according to himself, that the Thing that is the most conducive to Virtue, which the Wit of Man could invent, shou’d not be made use of to
that End.
\ *
But his Friends wou’d Salve this absurdity, by pretending that he is only against the Corruption of the Stage, and not against the Stage
^ ■ itself.
V 214)
itself. If that be his Meaning, he had no need of transcribing the Fathers Authorities from Prynn; nor is there any Man in his Sen ses who is against the Reformation of this Noble Diversion, except those who get by its Corruption. But if that had been his real Intention, his Pen and Reputation were at that Time high enough to have accomplifh’d So laudable a Design;; Design So worthy of a Divine, and which has been long pursu’d in ■vain by Such who wanted his Interest.
I do not find by your Letter that you have started any new Complaints against the Stage, and all these have been Sufficiently answer’d already. To come therefore close to you — Your Nephew is a young Gentleman of the Inns of Court; he studies hard all the Day; wou’d you allow him no unbending Hours, no Hours of Refreshment? That i s ridiculous, and humane Nature cannot Support itself always on the Bent. Well, you will; nay, you must therefore give him Diversions: : are you for the most Innocent, or most Criminal; the most Idle and Vain, or the most Useful? If for the latter, let us examine all that this Town affords, and some of which he must have recourse to. The first is the Bottle: Do you prefer that to Plays? I confess a Bottle now and then, in a good con verfation, is very well, and very refreshing; but it is a hard matter to pick out such Companions at the Tavern that make use of this Diversion with Moderation; one Bottle draws on another, till drunkenness ensues with all its wild Train of Follies and Vices 5 and it is
a hard
\
V 215 I
a hard matter for a young Man, of a free and generous Temper, to observe that Moderation in it as is requisite. Well, wou’d you have then quit the Tavern and go to the Gaming Houses, even to the Groom porter’s itself?? you cannot be so mad as to approve of this Destruction of Health and Estates; the season of this vile Diversion is all the Night, or at least the most part of it; and when the Spirits are Spent with Vexation andlolies, and want of Rest, the Mind has but little Time to recover itself, and be fit for Study or bufiness. What course must he then take, apply himself to the Ladies Conversation?? in at their Assemblies, or their Vifiting days? Alas! my Friend, a Man of sense (as your Nephew must be allow’d to be) makes but a ridiculous Figure among the Ladies; a Man must be fur iiifh’d with a large stock of Impertinence and Follies; must think little, and prate much, must be skill’d in the Tattle and Chitchat of the Place to render himself agreeable there. Beaus and Coxcombs will have a much better Interest in the Fair, notwithstanding all his real Merit, which will make him the Jest of the Women and their Favourite Fops.
There is another sort of Diversion with the Ladies, I confess, but Sure you are too grave to recommend that; and shou’d you, it wou’d take up too much of his Time, nay, and of his Money too, for a young'gentleman of his Estate and Employment.
What other Diversions there may be found n this Town I do not know j but sure I am,
that
()
that these are the principal, and not one of them I think to compare with Plays; in which you have an Image of Life, its Passions, and its Humours, that give us, whifil they divert us, moss excellent Lessons, andiucli as glide gently into the Heart in the Vehicle of plea liire. In Tragedy, you see the ill Effects of giving way to our Passions, which ought to be ressssed in their first Approaches, if we wou’d maintain our Innocence, and our Tranquillity. By Seeing the Misfortunes which attend People of great Stations in the World, the Mind is brought to pity Objects worthy of Compassion, and to become less liable to missead us in those which in justice ought to engage it. It likewise regulates our Fear, by having Such Things, Such Events plac’d before us, that while they cause Terror for themselves, render us less Subject to it in the common Accidents of Life : But the Benefit of Seeing Tragedies, that are well written, and well acted, are too many to he here enumerated.
In you have the droll Pieces of Poetry,
the ridiculous Face of Nature, where Folly is laugh’d out of Countenance, and Virtue recommended with a Smile; the Singularities of Affectation and Humour, (for they are not the Same, though confounded by a very ingenious Author in his discourse of Comedy) the Disappointment of Vices not fit for Tragedy to take notice of, and the like.
these were the Diversions of the wisest, the bravest, and most polite People that
Nature tver produced; I mean the Greeki and
the
C .2i7)
the Romans. Whoever knows the least: of the Athenians, know that no People ever excell’d them in Braver, witness their beating So many Hundred thousind of the Perjians, at the Battle of Marathon, under the Command of Mlftades. After the Victory was got, one of the Soldiers ran to Athens (not many Miles from the Field of Battle) in his Armour, not waiting till his Wounds were dressed, and entering the City, knock’d at the Doors of Several of the principct Citizens, crying out, re johr, 0 x\thenians, all is well, and So dropped down dead with his loss of Blood, with a great deal of Satisfaction, that he had not only sought the Enemy, and had a Share in their Overthrow, but had brought his Country the first: News of the Victory; but he lost: not all his Reward, the Athenians performing his Funeral Rites with great Solemnity.
these were the People who were So delighted with Plays, who Sat whole Days in their Theatre, who wou’d on no condition iuf fer the Revenue appropriated to the Stage, to be applied to any other uses. these People, who, tho’ the greatest Traders in the World in that Age, yet polish’d all the rest of the World by those Arts and Sciences, that had either their Beginning in that City, or their persection.
For shame therefore, my old Friend, quit thy new astum’d and cynical whimsy, and Suffer your Nephew to enjoy So rational a Choice of his Diversion /
But
( 2i8)
But you will reply, That were our Stag like that of Athens., you should be as muc for it, as you are against it. I confess, I will it were so; yet as bad as it is, it must b allow’d the best of our Diversions.
Another Charge you give him, is, that h do not keep Company with the Players. I be lieve he has no need of that Caution, for never found that he made any of them his Com panions. But, good Sir, if a Gentleman,, Scholar, and a Man of Sobriety, happens t( be a Player, shou’d that cut him off from ou Conversation?? there is no manae of reason. But my Letter is (welled to; larger Bulk than I intended; therefore, witl my humble Service, conclude that I am,
Sit, Yout Sincere Friend,
George Goodtaste
I have always obferv’d (Said the Baron) that the most noisy against the Stage, are those who are the most liable to find themselves there in Some ridiculous Shape of Folly or Vice, which is their real (parrel to it. And have they not reason (affum’d the Chevalier) to he against that which is against them? How can they who thrive by Avarice, hypocrisy, and thf like, be pleased to See those Vices So graphically describ’d, that every one may know them when they meet with them in the World, though under never So grave and religious a Countenance. For my Part (Slid Downright)
* ^
4
C ip)
1 wonder how the Cheat goes on, Since the Marks j6f Knaves is So very well known to the nciungeft. Prithee (Said I) our Follies and Vices help one another, and blind the Bubble at the same time that they make the Sharper quick Sighted.
LETTER V
of Liberty.
A
To Roger Cartmaign, Efy; at his House id.
duke ftreer, W eltmiistler.
%
Trujiy Friend Roger,
t
I Was pleas’d with your Zieal for Magna char ta in your last Letter, and must own it to be a great Happiness to this Nation; and yer I must needs say it is no Such Bulwark against Slavery as you imagine; since at the Same time that it wards So watchfully against the Invasions' of our Properties and Rights by the Prince, it leaves us expos’d to worse from one another. The Security of your Property is the Law; but then the Practice of the Law is in Such Hand?, that you are no longer Secure in the posfeffion of it than any one has a mind to disturb you,, who has Money to do it. The Lawyer, in the first place, never minds whether your cause he just or unjust, provided he wants not his See; nor can you want Evidence who will Swear what you please, if you will pay them
La for
( 220)
1
for it, and the juft cause by this Means often loses the Day, or is compell’d to have recourse to false Oaths likewise, to Support itself. We have had eminent Proofs of this in wefi mhifter~hall, where the Witnesses, whose Evidence pass: in a Trial the last Term, are all prov’d guilty of Perjury this. A roguisli Attorney forg’d a Bond for Three Hundred Pounds; the Execution of the Bond, and the Payment of the Said Money, was Sworn to by the Knights of the Post. The Gentleman consulted his Lawyer what to do in the case, who frankly told him, he had but one Way, and that the Same that his adversaries had taken, to acknowledge the Bond, but plead that it was discharg’d, and provide Evidences enough to Swear it He did lo, and carry’d his Cause. Wshen the adversary heard it, Zounds, what a Rogue is this, laid he, to acknowledge the Receipt of Money which he never receiv’d
or Saw?
This is enough to iliew how precarious a Tenure you hold your Property by, and how liable you a re to lose it in Spite of Magna char ta. You hold your Liberty in as Slight a manner; for if a money’d Man clap an Action on you, though you owe him nothing, he immediately destroys your Credit, and ten to one confines you to a Goal for want of Bail Sufficient; and if you have not Money, you may lie and starve there in expectation of an Act of Grace. These Things are done every Day; and I dare Say, that Three Fourths of all the poor miserable prisoners, in all our prisons,
« II
are
( 22 1)
arc there either on this Account, or for Trisst ij which they are not able to p^y, und yet no Remedy has been obtain’d, notwithstanding the Grievance has more than once been represented to the Public.
One great Source of part of this Evil is, that Perjury is not made Death; for were it So, the Rogues, who now fear nothing, wou’d be deter’d from their Swearing by the Terror of the g.illows. i’he Manner of our Oath, and the Solemnity of if, is not sustici ent to strike many who take it. Pho, says the Attorney to his Scrupulous Country Evidence, it isbutkistlng the Book, that’s all, you lay little or nothing. Which puts me in mind of a Story of a Scots Evidence, who by this Representation of the Lawyer who employ’d him, made no difficulty of kissing the Bock; but when the Scots Oath was propos’d to him to take on the same Point, he cry’d out, that he would not damn himself by taking that Sacred Oath to a Falsehood; for the Scots Oath is truly terrible, and pronounc’d with great Solemnity.
Add to this your Chancery Suits, which may hold you and your Heirs their Lives, and never come to a final Decision as long as each Party can find Money to carry it on, till at last your whole contested Matter is Spent, and in the Lawyers Pockets, and you both sit down like a Couple of obstinate Coxcombs without a Penny.
More Instances might be given to prove that your boasted Liberty is a mere Chimaera;
L 5 but
( 222)
but I think these are Sufficient to make one Nation miserable; and the worst of it is, that there appears no manner of prospect of any End to it. It is true, that some excellent Chancellors have arisen, who have, during their Terms, cut off abundance of the dilatory abuses of that Court, as that excellent Perion the Lord Confer; and we have all the Reason in the World to hope the like from that illustrious person who now has the Seals; his Learning, his Humanity, native Equity, Virtue and Religion promise no less. But for the Tyrannies of the Court of the Marjhalfea, cc. I see no Help approaching. The Miserable have few or no Friends; and the op preffors have hitherto met with too much Interest to fear a Suppression. And yet we find the Court of lk<5i/ow suppress’d for its vile Practises. May the Marjhalfea meet the Same Fate; for none get by it but about Four Hundred Bum bailiffs and their Followers, Four principal Attorneys, besides Pettyfoggers and little Solicitors, half a Dozen Counsellors, Efr. with the Jayler and his Turnkeys; from whom, good Lord deliver every honest Man. I am, dear Roger,
Thy faithful humble Servant,
Adam Right.
r
\ J
- ......... I
LETTER VL
Man differs more from Man then Alan from
Beast
/
Mr. busy, at his House in Threadneedle
street, London.
SIR,
By your Letter of the 12th you Seem too much a Leveller, when you make all Men alike. I mean, not that you are for destroying the different Degrees of Men in that necessary Subordination which humane Society requires; but the Nature, Temper, Merit and Demerit of Men, as they are divided by their Individuation : For it is certain, and must be evident to any one that will confider, that
Man differs more from Man, than Man from Beast.
Th is is a Verse of the famous Lord Rochejier, if I mistake not; and the justness of it will appear from Some few Reflections.
If we take a View of Mankind, we Shall find the Difference most apparent, both in their Understandings and their Inclinations. We cannot indeed make a perfect discovery of these in the Quadrupede Animals, that is, we cannot tell how far the Knowledge of them
L 4 ex(
()
extends; but this, I think, is pretty plain, that ionie are more silly and stupid, others more Sagacious and docile: So that the Animal Kingdorh rises from Creatures that are but just remov’d from the Earth they move on, or at least from the Afegetable Kingdom, which is only in increase and Decay, till it comes up to Men, and Some of them are Scarce a Remove from Beasts. What are all the numerous Part of Men, that make by many Degrees the greatest Bulk of the Kind, but, as Dryden calls them, a scarce animated Clod, that are wholly employ’d (like the Beasts in Propagation and Nourishment? that is, in Manuring the Earth, and carrying on the under bufiness of the World, that relates to Food and Raiment, in all its Several Sorts, or as Soldiers, or Traders, or Some Such Employment, which takes up all their Care, all their Study, all their Thoughts, and all their Time; who come into the World, and go out of it, without knowing or ever reflecting on what they are themselves, or indeed what any of those Things and Objects are with which they are Surrounded, and ev’ry Day have to do.
Do not these differ as much from Man, endow’d with Knowledge, and the use of Reason, as they do from Beasts? Are there not Men in the World, who may be call’d a Sort of Gods to these thoughtless Animals of the Same Figure and Shape? I mean Such whose Souls rise above the common Neceffiries of Life, and mount to the Contemplation of the Heavens, and their Divine Author; that find by this Contemplation, that there is a Supreme
i minor
V ^2))
immortal Being, from whom all visible Things must of necestity derive themselves; who have thus discover’d that this Earth, they inhabit, is but a Point, a Mote in comparison of the whole System of the Material World; who, though their Bodies are confin’d to this Terraqueous Globe, travel with their Minds thro’ the vast expanse, and take a View of the ineffable Wonders of Omnipotence there, find in this Journey Myriads of Worlds, all replenish’d with various Beings of a different Nature to themselves. these Men, who having found out the Several Motions of the Planets of our Vortex, with So much certainty, as amounts to a Sort of infiillible Knowledge; these Men, I say, may be allow’d of a Superior Excellence to the grovelling Creatures, which yet bear the lame Name of Man,
To these we may add all those great genius’s, who have either invented, or who excel in the other Arts and Sciences which have polish’d the World, and render’d that lise pleasing and desirable, which elfe wou’d be only tolerable, and little different from that of Brutes; that is, those who have invented, improv’d, or carry on the Arts of Building, Navigation, Arithmetic, and all the mathe imticks, from which all the useful and finest Mcchanitk Arts are in Some manner derived i Letters, Writing, Printing, philosophy in all its useful Parts, Oratory, Music, Poetry, and the like.
\
I believe you will agree wkh tne, that that ie " Men ought justly to be diftinguisti’d from borh
L y th«i
........... ( 226)
the Great Vulgar, and the Small, as cow lay calls them. The Same will hold good in the Several Inclinations of Mankind; those ■who are generous, beneficent, good, and a dorn’d with all manner of Virtues, may be Said to differ more from those who are led by the contrary Defects and Vices, than Man from Beast.
There are Men in the World, who, like Titm, are or ought to be the Delight of Humankind; who have Such a Particle of the Divine Nature in their Minds, that they are never So well pleas’d, as when they are do ing good to their Fellow-creatures; who are, \\ke Arifftdes, incorruptly Just; like cio, Generous; like Flam'mim, Beneficent. ’tis true, \ in these more degenerate Ages of the World, their
Number is extremely Small, at least who arrive to Such Perfection; but the smallness of the Number renders it the more Valuable, and challenges the more of our Esteem. Yet even now we may meet with private Men who take delight in Serving their Friends, helping the xjnsortunate, and promoting Arts and Sciences. While, on the contrary, you meet with others that Seem made for the Destruction of all that is Gcod; who take delight in mischief, and even glory in their address in Scandalous Irregularities and Inhumanity. Some Seem made by Nature for the Good and Benefit of Society, never Satisfied in Advantages that none slate in but themselves; others, visibly born only for themselves, care little who Suffer So. they gain.
You
{ 2 27)
You will Surely also allow as wide a Difference between these as between the fornier. This is a Subject too copious to be Sully dis cuss’d in the compass of a Letter; for it includes the Consideration of all Humane Nature, and its Virtues and Vices. I shall therefore reser it to a better Opportunity, wishing you may always meet with the better Sort, and that with your Wealth you may be one of them, and encourage all you find of them with, your Assistance. I am,
SIR,
Your mojl humble Servant,.,
4
0
William Noble.
That what this Gentleman has oblerv’d slid the cbru/ie/'f is most true, appears to me seif evudent. But this we may add,, (affum’d the Ikrowj that the World pays not its Honours and respedls according to this Division; for those who generally meet with the most success and applause too, are the Men justly levell’d by this Gentleman with the Brutes Men who have little or no Philanthropy, anst esteem all things made for themselves. I con — sess (Said I) Things are now in Such a State,, that there is Scarce hypocrisy wanted to make the Wicked and the Fools go down with the Public; not but Some disguise Matters more plausibly, and pass for knowing and good Men, who are in reality extremely ignorant, and
L <5 pro
%
()
profligate to the last degree. The World (concluded Downright) may take its own course; but with me a Blockhead Shall always be a Blockhead, tho’ garnisli’d with all the Robes of Science; and a Knave a Knave, though in Scarlet.
.......i — II .1 !■■■ I — II I. I 1^
LETTER VII
For Retirement.
Sfo fffr. Lovejoy, to he left Buttonh Coffeehouse in ruffei ftreet, Covent-garden, London.
*«
My old Friend,
I receiv’d your merry Letter by the last Post, and that shows me that you are the Same jovial Companion you have always been. Company is your Delight still; your Bottle and your Friend have all your unbending Hours that you can Spare from the Ladies. I have nothing to do to find fault with your Way of living; I have no Authority to direct your Actions, and therefore it might Seem an assuming Impertinence for me to throw in my Reflections against those Enjoyments you have still a Relish of: Yet, my Friend, methinks the increase of your Years shou’d now and then give you Some more Serious Thoughts; and I wonder, that for the Sake of Variety, Of no other Motive can prevail) you should not try the pleasures
of
I
+
t 22p;
of rerirememt. The perpetual Hurry of Noise, and of Business and pleasure, shou’d make you weary of the Town, and force you to wish for the calm Fields, the lonely grotto’s, Woods, Rivers, and open Air. Believe me, as these wou’d be quite a new Scene to your Eyes, than what you daily See in that Smoky Town of London, So they wou’d open to you a new View of Pleasures you are not yet acquainted with, I mean those of Contemplation, of the highest Flights of Thought, and all the Satisfactory Discoveries of Reason.
For my Part, I cou’d find no Such Charm in the pursuits of a busy Life, or a Life of Pleasure, as they call it, to hold me longer in the Chase, perpetually the Same Things over and over again, with very little Variation.. However they have amus’d me in my younger Days, my Palate is quite alter’d with my Years. Methinks Man was made for Some nobler End, than to Spend all his Time, and employ all his Thoughts either in what they call bufiness, or in the little Toys they call pleasures. Methinks he shou’d have Something else to entertain him than just how to laugh, and be merry, or play the Fool for Company Sake; and you are a lucky Man if you can fix your conversation so, as not to find more Folly than good sense in your Bottle friends; and it is a wretched Repast to a Mind, that thinks justly, to have every Dicti savour’d with Folly and Impertinence.
In ftiort, all the conversation, nay, almost all the Actions of the World Seem to me very
insipid,
V 230;
• t
♦
insipid, and like the Tittle tattle of Women
and Children, which disgust and not delight me. 1 think it is high time for me to look into my own Nature; examine for what Cause I was made, and what I may expect after this short uneasy Day of Life is at an End. I know Some of your Wits make short of that Inquiry, and dogmatically pronounce an End to all Things with Life. They tell us that after Death nothing is, and nothing Death : And that therefore it is a foolish and superfluous Trouble to inquire into that which is nothing in itself, and yields in reality neither Fear nor Hope : That he is the wisest Man who avoids all these anxious Considerations, enjoys the present Hour, and all that Life affords, as long as he can, and then goes to Sleep for ever.
How these Gentlemen came to know this, I confess, is what I cou’d never discover. They have been too modest to back their Opinions with reason, with Demonstration; for nothing less can juftisy their Conduct, and positive Decision of a Point of the utmost Importance, Such as the Immortality of the Soul is, if chey shou’d be in the wrong. All that they have offer’d (for they Sometimes write, tho’wretchedly) amounts only at an endeavour at a mere Probability, encompass’d with Ten thousand Doubts. Whereas if they wou’d come up to their Pretensions of being govern’d by reason only, they should admit nothing, much less advance anything but reason that cannot be disputed, in all their Declarations. Instead of this, when they find themselves graveli’d in this
Argu
%
1231)
• 4 •
Argument, they turn it off with what they call Wit, or shrewd (^eftions. Who ever Saw a Soul? (said one of them once in my Company)
Set aside the fabulous Narrations of the Priests (continued he) and I never cou’d hear of any one Man of common Sense and Honesty, who wou’d Seriously avouch that he had ever seen a Soul or Spirit: So that as it goes out of the Body invisibly, it always remains So; for what is the Object of our senses at any Time, is So at all Times, unless it change its Nature.
7 O
As for our Souls not being seen (reply’d my Friend) I know not what consequence you wou’d draw from it, unless it be that because it is never Seen by our Eyes, theresore it has no Being; for, admitting what I know you hold, that there is nothing in Nature but Matter, yet we find many Bodies that are invisible to our Eyes, which yet evidently exist. As, the Air and the Wind. What Body is of greater Force than the Wind? It bears down all before it, and yet I never heard nor read of any one who Siw it. You wou’d not allow this as a good Argument against the Being of the Wind, and why then shou’d it be So against the Existence of the Humane Soul? Has not the microscope made Discoveries of almost an infinite Number of little Animals, which yet with our mere Sight we never See? Do we not find all Places and Things almost reo

plenish’d with Beings; and shall we be positive that the vast Expanse of Air is without any? Do we know the Extent of the Power of Omnipotence, and that God has no way of
ext
231)
exerting his Omnipotence, but hy Objects visible to our Eyes? But this is too silly to deserve so much as has been Said about it. If therefore the Soul may be immortal; if a Part of this Creature Man Survives the Grave, sure it is worth our while, nay, it is the Duty of common Prudence, and evsh of self-love rightly understood, to employ our Thoughts upon it, though but a mere Probability, nay, if only a pofsibility. But God has himself astur’d us that the Soul is Immortal, and capable of Pains and Pleasures everlashng; and therefore it is Madness not to give ourselves up to a Contemplation of Death and its consequences, how to obtain the Good and avoid the Evil. But you will Say, I take it for granted that God has declar’d this, which is what they deny, and yet remains to be prov’d This has been So often prov’d, that it wou’d be but to repeat what has been Said to gctn the Victory, and fllence these Fools, who have Said in their Hearts there is no God. And the Subject wou’d be too large for this Place; it may theresore Suffice to Siy, that since the Points in Controversy betwixt the Atheists and Deifls are of such Importance, it is worth our while to examine thoroughly into them; and that cannot he better done than in Retirement, where, freed from all the daily Avocations of a Town Life, nothing may interrupt us in a Study truly as transporting as necessary: To me ditate on God, and his Works, to find out the Wonders of his Ways, and the like, afisure Self (my fried are the only Pleasures..
■ ■ S
1233)
worthy a Rational Creature; and these are what Retirement presents you withal, mis take me not, I am not preaching up the Life of a Monkish Recluse, against which I declare myself. Nor am I against the necessary Employments, which Humane Society requires, for that would be highly absurd; but I only recommend this Retirement to you, and such as you, who, having past through the busy Part of Life, have left it to enjoy yourselves as you call it, and reap the Benefit of those Riches you have got together; for that is Seldom done till Years come on, and then it is high time to think of Some more valuable Riches, which, you have not yet obtain’d."
I do not deny but that you may do all this in Town; nay, and that you may meet there with Some Persons extremely fit to help you in this new pursuit, Men of great Learning and great Piety, both Clergy and Laity; but they are Seldom Sought as long as we are pleas’d with the Laughers, the merry Fellows, the mighty Men at the Bottle, the Scandal Carriers, who gratify our Spleen and our Envy with malicious Characters of their ac quaint.ance, and which is genervally the common Subject of coiiversition in coffeehouses, and those of People, of the hest Reception. Which puts me in mind of a young Gentleman that us’d wiws coffeehouse, who complain’d of the Gravel, cursing that Place as the Cause of it; And on inquiring how that produc’d such an Effect, Why, said he, I oh
ferv’d at our Table (and so at the reji) the Person
that
I
V }
that left the Company •was always the suhjeb of our '' Raillery oi soon as his Back, 'viof turn’d; so that to escape this, I generally out fate the Company, and would not so much as go into the next Room to make Water, for fear my charaber Should he drawn be fore my Return, which has given me the Gravel or Strangury, I know not 'which. I laugh’d at his Fear of an Evil Tongue, and at him, for letting an imaginary Evil throw him into a real one.
I have not room to Say more, but that if you love not my Retirement, love, at least, my Study, enjoy that where you think fit; tho’, for the lake of your conversation, I could wish you near me, where we would laugh Sometimes too but it should beat the lily Creatures who never think, or never think as they ought. I am
4
faithful Friend,
*
Adaivi Due thought,
I was afraid (Said the Baron) at the Beginning, that we should have had an Harangue for Retirement, from the usual Topics of a Country Life. That, indeed (aflum’d the Chevalier) is a Subject: so threadbare, that the best that can be done on it, is to give us a good Translation of Horace, and the rest. As for this gentleman’s Vindication of the soul’s Immortality (Ea, iddownright) I approve of it; and I have often wonder’d what could move those Persons, who have appear’d against it, to declare for So abandon’d a cause, that is,
why
K 235 >
why they Should entertain and endeavour to promote a Notion which affords no manner of Benefit or Pleasure, either to themselves, or any of Mankind. Can they be so stupid as to be pleas’d with Annihilation; Is to be no more a Fate So eligible? Milton allows the Devils this Comfort, even in the misery of Hell, that they have yet a Being. I believe (Said I) that it would be no difficult Matter to prove that the Immortality of the Soul ia declared by God, not only by Revelation (which cannot be deny’d) but by that reason which discovers to us that he himself has a Being.
A
A
.N. t
< •
I
\
%
$
LET
%

/
( 23i5)
*
%
. m ui i ■ ■■ ■■,, ...
LETTER VIIL
of Pride, Modefiy, Vanity, dec.
Lo James Biss ville, Efqi near Maidstoii m
Kent.
Dear Jemmy,
I Was extremely pleas’d with your last, for I am never indifferent in my friend’s Satisfaction; his pleasure and his Pain are Sure to find me a Sharer in them. I am glad you pass your Time So agreeably in the Country; this is indeed the season to find all the Diversions of that in their Perfection. But you Seem to have entertain’d a Resolution of fixing yourself at your manor house, and of throwing off all Thoughts of this Town; and think the Pursuit ef the Fox, the Hare, the Chase of the Stag, and the Sports of the Gun and the Net, much more eligible, both for Innocence and Delight, than the Game we are so eager after here, I mean, of Wealth, Places, Dignities, Power, and the like. -1 confess that I believe I must allow you the Preference in Innocence; but as to the Pleasure, that is a Point that will admit of some Debate, since that depends on the Humour, Inclination and Passions of every Man, who having a different Taste of Things, must of consequence have the Same of pleasures: And Sure, a fair stander by would judge by
the
t 237;
s
the eagerness of the Pursuit, that our Men of Business, our Candidates for Power and Gaia have no common Satisfaction to engage them So entirely and So perpetually in their Chase.
But you Say, you could never bring yourself to an (Jbfervance of all those Requisites that are necessary in Men who design to make or mend their Fortunes; a Slavish Attendance and Dependance, the shocking Pride and in folence of Men of Power and Dignity, their Impertinence and Vanity, which must all be born, and that with an Air of Content, if not Satisfaction.
You say, you could never bear dilguifing your Thoughts, and sacrificing that little Knowledge you have to my lord’s Ignorance, which yet you must do, or forego all your Pretensions. It is, indeed, a hard Talk to a generous Mind, to smother its Sentiments in deference to the Folly and Pride of another. I have Sometimes wonder’d why Men, that know themselves Ignorant in any Arts, should yet be So impertinent as to thrust their Notions into conversation with Men of Skill in them, since that is the way never to know more than they do. But this certainly proceeds from prue and Vamty, which having been all along fed with Flattery from the Cradle, are grown So much a part of them, that they can never divest themselves of them during their whole Lives.
It is a Saying of Some Author (I think Rochefoucault) that all Men are proud alike, tho’ they have a different way of showing it.
How
\
4
( *38)
How far this may hold good, in a very nice Speculation, I will not contend; but if we judge by the manner of men’s Ihowing of it, certainly that Maxim cannot be justified;; as Some Men appear, in all they do, insufferably proud and vain; so others, in all their Conduct, difeover a Modesty, nay, a bafhful nefs which cannot be excused, because injurious to both their Fortune and Reputation. And this ov^’ro calls Pudor fuhrujiicus, and is always accompanied with a strange Diffidence in a man’s self. That which is most observable, is, that this is seen most in Men of the greatest: Merit. No Body had more Desert in his Art than Virgil, and yet he is noted for this excess of Modesty. This may be deriv’d from two Sources, sometimes, perhaps, it may be the Child of what seems its opposite, Prin e; an over rating of our own Merit, that expects to be courted, to be sought to, am therefore dilhains to seek after others for Reward or any mshner of Benefit; and this more plainly in some than in others. It may likewise proceed ' from Sloth, an inactive Temper, that cannot be brought to bestow So much Pains as are necessary to gain a Point in this World. And I do believe, in Arts, especially Poetry, it may come from the great Idea the Artist has of his Art, which majees his best Performances Seem lame and imperfect to shim, at the Same time that they are admir’d by all Men besides;; this was the case of f/rgi/.
I have made it my Observation, that the meanest Artists, the worst Poets have the
greatest
V
I
( 2 39)
greatest Opinion of what they produce; and are the most easily flatter’d into Insolence, their Vanity heightning all they hear to their Advantage; and often bespeak a Flattery by their own previous Praise of their Works to their Auditors.
Beauty and Wit are two things that most of both Sexes would be thought to have, and are therefore the soonest won to credit what is Said to the Advantage of either. I once knew a Gentleman of Figure in this Town, whom one would have thought Nature had arm’d dgainft this weakness, on account of his Beauty, who yet was more than once betray’d by the cunning Flattery of an artful Woman, to think himself a Beaux Garpon. His Head was in Shape something like a sugar loaf, his Forehead long and Small rather than high, his Cheeks like a trumpeter’s, a Short Neck, narrow Shoulders, Hips and Buttocks like a Dutch Skipper, and his Legs Short and doubly crooked. Yet, with all these Defects, had no little Vanity in the Power of his person with the Ladies, among whom one was found that thought it agreeable to her Interest to flatter him in that Particular, persuading him not only that he was charming in her Eyes, but by Some pretty Songs to that Purpose, quite disarm’d him of all reserve, and would in Raptures bring out. Ah! dangerous su ain; which was part of one of the Songs She had made upon him. It is common enough to find this Folly eminent in an ugly Woman; but I never Saw it So strong in any
Man
t 240;
Man before, who had so little to justify it. ’tis true, that many of our dressing Fops are fuffi ‘ciently hideous in their Persons, and that those generally setup for Conquests on the Women, who appear the worst qualify’d for it, if you abate Impertinence, tho’ that alone sometimes is more successful than real Charms, than the gracefulness of Body and Brightness of Mind; for, as one malicloufly observ’d, the Fair Sex love themselves in them.
But I am wandering from my Point, and the Length of my Letter put me In Mind that it is time to release you from my Impertinence, and no longer detain you from your more agreeable Entertainments, like the rest of the World, Sacrificing more to my own Satisfaction than yours; for whllft I write to you, I Seem to converse with you, than which there is no greater pleasure to
Your faithful Friend
and humble Servant,
William Willis.
It is true (Said I) it Seems to me that the Gentleman is in the right, when he makes Pride and Vanity the Portion of all Men, I allow you (assum’d the Chevalier) that every Man has Such a Share of them, that it is a hard matter to find one of us that is absolute pi’oof against Flattery, provided that'it be but adapted to our Gotft. Right, (Said the Baron)
for
(hi)
for I have Seen a Man resent a gross, ill deli ver’d piece of Adulation, and yet the Same Person sufficiently taken with a clean Commendation, which yet had scarce Juftness enough to Save it from that Name. For my Part (said Downright') I think Vanity no Such Evil, if it be not troublesome to others, since it is a kind Remedy that Nature has planted in every one to keep him in Humour with himself.
LETTER IX
On Tragedy.
To Mr. Johnlbn, to be left at button^r coffee house, Govent garden, London.
Ay Friend,
T Am afraid you will think me negligent of * the Favour of yours In delaying thus long my Answer; but a Man is to be a little excus’d, who has not been a Month in Pant, where there are so many Things to entertain a Stranger: You send me Word of a new tra ftdy that you have had at London, and seem full of Admiration of the poet’s Performance.
If I did not know your Gothic. Taile of that Poem, I shou’d congratulate my Country on Its Improvement in the Drama, at least in the noblest Part of It, Tragedy. But I know you think the Language the highest Perfection
M of
( 242)
of a Tragic Poet; and yet in that you and I Shall never agree. Our Modern Writers of this Poem, I mean, such as have excelpd moll: in the Diction, seem to imitate the French in the. Time of Rapin, of whom the Critic complains, as of the Destroyers of a true Poetic Style, the Perfections of which are very different in all Languages from that of Prose. There is more room for figurative Expressions; and a bold and strong Way of speaking, justly manag’d, is beautitul in Verse, which wou’d be Scarce pardonable in prose. There is no Man who has read the Latin Poets, and is acquainted with the Beauties of the prosaic Diction, but knows this. I confess, I wou’d not on a Trial of my Writing in the Latin Tongue appeal to moil of my Countrymen, whose Education has been entirely English, for their Approbation. For our Schoolmasters here corrupt the Style and the Taste of a young Student, hy entering him in the Poets, before he has Settled his Style in prose, which renders him incapable of dif tinguishing between the two Modes of ex preffion, both beautiful in their Kind, and separately, but abominable when join’d promif cuousty together. In Some Parts of Europe, they never let a Youth read a Line of Poetry till he is Master of the best prose Authors, and can write in the Style of Cicero or Sahiji, as the Subject requires: I do not mean after the Manner of tally’s Orations (except where that diffuse Way is proper) but his Offices, his De senebuu, Aniicitia, Paradoxes, Sommmn Sdpionis, and his
philosophic Pieces, not forgetting his Epistles. When a Student is thus perfect and fixed in Prose,
they
C 243)
they advance him to read the Poets, and then he likewise learns to Verfify, and not before. Nor does he begin with Virgil and Horace, a here, but proceeds from the easiest or least difficult to the hardest.
Tho’ perhaps this may not be thought of much Consequence to the englijir, yet take my Word for it, it is of more Importance than the general Talkers of Language imagine. And our Reformers of our Tragic Diction wou’d not aim at bringing it to the Standard of the best Prose, if they confider’d justly. I confess, I cou’d Sooner forgive Less Fujiian, than the coldness of the latter. Milton, endeavouring to raise the English Poetry up to the Dignity of the Latin in Variety and Numbers, has recourse to all the Privileges those Poets made use of to the Same End in their Speech. It is true, that the Imitation of Milton's Manner of Expression in a Play, has made it nauseous to good Judges; but that is, because the Imitator did not dil tinguish the difference between the Diction of an Epic and Dramatic Poem; whereas Milton himself, in his Samjon Agomfles, makes use of a Style more agissant, and fitter for Dialogue and the Passions.
But indeed, to me this Seems a Point not to be meddled with in the praise of a Tragedy, fb Sar as to determine its Fate, and give it the Name of bad or good. The first thing we ought to confider, and the chies Thing too, is the Fable or Plot. If that be well defign’d for the proving Some one important Moral, it goes a great Way in deciding the Merit of the Piece. That is the Work of a Poet, and none
M a but
( *44)
but a Master in the Tragic Art bas ever yet been faultless in the drawing of it. This is the Orthography of the future Building, and Defects in this unrectjfied are never mended in the Superstructure. We must next examine whether the Mannen; that is, the Characters, of the Persons introduc’d are well mark’d, that is, whether they are sufficiently distinguish’d from ione another; and that the Qualities we give them are necessary to the Plot; for all that are not So, are faulty. Nor must you strive to make your principal Characters Sovereignly virtuous and innocent, especially if your cataj trophe be unhappy, for the Innocent ought never to Suffer on the Stage. There must: be Some Defects always viffble in them, and those the plain Effects of Some passton which Seems implanted in their Character, and which from their first Appearance lets us See what course they will take, which course must produce their Misfortune. But then they must not be scan dalousty wicked; that is as bad; for no Pity is due to a Man, whose Life is directed by an habitual course or Principle (is I may call it so) of infamous Vices. There are two Crimes which are never to be admitted in Tragedy, Cowardice in the Man, and want of Chast' ty in the Woman; in the last of which many of our play writers are abandondly guilty. Nor must there be any Jayps, Vtl'dns; they shock us too much, and Seem reilly out of the cha ricter of Humankind. But the Success of Jago in Sl'akefpear has made our other Writers run mad after Such like Characters; nay, one proceeded So far, as to give his Play the Name
of
(=45)
of The Villain, This is a Practice peculiar to our Stage, and unknown to the Ancients and Moderns of all other Nations. The Sentiments are the next Thing that comes under our Reflection; If they are the true Effect of
a'
the Manners, that is, such as the Passions and Inclinations that we see in the Characters inspire, they are good, elfe abominable. I fear we too often err here in our most celebrated
Tragedies.
If these are all good, I wou’d not fear to determine that the Tragedy is good, let the Diction be what it will. 1 know it is urg’d by a very ingenious person, that all those Poets among the Ancients, who were eminent for the other Parts of this Poem, were also eminent for this. I allow it, but that will be of very little Advantage to the Fautors of fine Language (as they with Mr. Bays are pleas’d to call it) since as they were exemplar in this, so were they in all the more essential Parts of Tragedy; and therefore our Grammatical Critics do nothing, till they find one or more among them wbo excell’d in the Diction, and not at all in the Fable, Manners and Senrimunts,
On the contrary, we may, from arijlntlds^e marks on this Head, be certain that there had been before his Time, if not then, likewise Some who were defective in the Diction, and yet valuable in the rest.
I have taken no Notice of the Unities of Action, Time and Place, not that I think them Things indifferent, for on the contrary I esteem them Essentials; but because I find that now our Poets begin to make Advances in that
M 3, Par(
()
and though we have few yet perfect in it, yet we have reduc’d the extravagant
Ramble in all three of them into a much narrower Compass. In this City of Paris, the Poets are moft exact in them, and indeed, in all the other Parts of this Poem.
I know we have Some who contemn the French Tragedies, hut in my Opinion for want of Judgement and Taste. 1 confess, there is one Thing which has too much prevail’d, both at London and Paris, and that is your whining Scenes of Love. Majesty is the cha racteriftic of this Part of the dama, which is utterly deflroy’d by such Scenes.
Non hene convemunt nec in und Cede morantur
Majejias dr" Amor.
«
says the Master of Love, Ovid; which I wonder a great Critic of our Nation did not consider when he look’d on Love as an Improvement of the Ancient Tragedy. Besides, it seems not to be Dramatic, because it wants Action, which is an Essential; nor is it an easy Matter to reconcile these Scenes to that Modesty, of which a Woman of Figure ought to be miftress, especially if the Scene lie in some of the hotter Climates, where the i.adies did not use to allow themselves the Liberty of owning their Passions in So open a Manner, before they were either espous’d or marry’d. By this you will find that I am not for excluding Love from our Tragedies; but then it ought to be between Man and Wife. Thus the Love of jl cefiis in Euripides charms us, as well as that of
Hek
( 247)
Helena in the Play of that Name, of the same Poet. The Diftrefifes of married Love are highly moving and command our Pity; the tedious Scenes of Lovers before Marriage provoke either our Indignation or Sleep.
But I have exceeded the Bounds of an Epistle, and shall therefore conclude with the old Assurance, of my being entirely
Your faithful Friend,
and huinhle Servant,
Robert Grangoust.
Th is Gentletnan (Said I) I find is Sora great Regularity in Plays, but does not consider that our Poets are not very able to come up to that Standard. Nor wou’d our Audience as fum’d Downright) bear it; we have been us’d to Such a latitudinarian Way, that we cannot relish anything regular. That is a vain excuse (Said the Baron) of the Writers 3 the French Stage was as irregular till the Time of Corneille, and that of Athens itself, till .fefchylm, Sophocles and Euripides. This is the Same Pretence (Said the Chevalier) the Spanif Poets made; whereas the great Wit Cervantes proves, that the moll regjiar found the best Reception.
M 4 LET
r
%
(148)
LETTER X
To Mr. Friendly, ro be left at Button’^ cof fee house, Ruffel street, London.
Friend Tom,
)
¥ N compliance with your Desire, I send you my Verses on the Sickness and Recovery of the dutchess of Newcajile. I know I send them to a Friend, and therefore shall Say notone Word about them. I must be short with you, for by this Same Post I Send two large Packets, besides other Letters. My next shall mrake it up, let my Verses do it now
I am Yours,
Charles Dickson.
0
%
ON
f
t 24^)
O N T H E
sickness and Recovery
Of her Grace
The Duchess Confort
O F
NEWCASTLE.
(mourn’d;
B ewcajlle languish’d, and the Beauties
Venus her shining Robes to Sable Around dejected Loves desponding lie,. Fearing the Period of their Empire nigh;
Extinct their Torches, and their Arrows broke; They hope no future Vassals to their Yoke.
The Force and Vigour of their Power is gone,. For these they drew from her bright Eyes alone: The Graces droop, and all their Sprightly Sire,, as if they with lteivcajhe 'would. expire: ^
Unable after her to kindle Soft Desire A
M 5 e’en
/
(2j0)
e’en Nature's self complains of cruel Fate,
That threatens her great Masterpiece with this lb short a Date.
In vain, said she, ive lavish’d all my Store,
And try’d the utmost Stretch of all my pow’r.
In vain, alas! with Labour have I joined
A beauteous Body, and a beauteous Mind! >
To make Otie perfect of the Female Kind! I
My Pride, my Boast, like a gay Dream, will sty,
And in Newcastle all my Glories die!
All other Beauties, if compar’d to her,
Cease to be lovely, and no more are fair!
The ancient Nymphs of Such illustrious Fame, '
That wash’d themselves in cod e irotas Stream, i
And Sung the Hymeneal Song to the bright Spartan Dame,
/ Vw
compar’d to her had been imperfect sound.
More for the Poets Verse, than their own Charms
renown’d.
Evhi Helen's Self, the Subject of their Lays,
*
Had she been by, had born inseriour Praise.
As
c25i)
Ki Venus, midst the Planets of the Night,
Shines and attracts with a Superior Light.
\
So Hollis Shines among the Female Train,
And still with her Superior Charms will gain > The Eyes, and Heart of every gazing Swain, d As bright Aurora rhlng in the Spring Does Light, and pleasure to all Nature bring:
So Hollis with an unaffected Grace,
And all the artless Honours of her Face,
Spreads round about, where ever She is by,
Joy to each Heart, and pleasure to each Eye.
Love from her Eyes still kindles double Fires, where e’er She comes, she doable Flames inspires: xvhate’er She does, or wherefoe’er She moves.
The Cause of hopeless Wishes still she proves. Unheeded, by her Charms whole Myriads fall;
Of Conquest negligent, ' she conquers ail.
• »
/ ' 'I; ■* 1
* 4
One only Hero had the happy Art,
’h '' • ’ ’ •
To force the Soft Recesses of her Heart.
M 6 For
(252)
For him alone I form’d the beauteous Maid;
For her alone the faithful Youth I made.
She only worthy of his Truth was found;
He only worthy of her Beauties own’d.
The most accomplifh’d of the Nymphs is She;
'The most accomplifh’d of the Swains is He
Thus for each other made, a mutual Site Kindles at once their Bosoms with Desire;
A mutual Passion, mutually they prove,
Both vow the Union of Connubial Love.
Their Vows are made with inauspicious Breath,
If they So loon must be difiblv’d in Death!
Love this blessed Union has himself decreed;
But to the Compact oh I that Fate agreed I
(
Thus Nature plain’d, abandon’d to her Cares, And fill’d her bosoiq with abortive Fears.
Not so Jbrvei fiueen i with empty Tears content, Gives not wain to friutlels Sorrow vejnt:
Ai
h
(25j)
0 • t
%*
Altho’ oppressed with a Severer Pain,
Than when she Saw her lov’d Adonis stain;
But to health’s God she takes her speedy Flight,
And charms his Soul to Save her dear Delight.
Son of the Sun, she said, I come to you,
And for a most important Boon I Sue;
So may you ever have Success in Love,
As now your Zeal for beauty’s Queen you prove.
See, yonder West ward lies the happy He,
On which the Graces, Loves, and Nature smile!!
I have fixed my Seat, and there alone:
For that I Paphos, Cyprus both disown.
There Beauty, and fair Liberty reside,
Now to the Rest of the dull World deny’d:
A thousand Nymphs as Gracian Helen fair.
And each as worthy of a ten Years War:
\
Loves Empire with refiftless Force maintain,
And like royself all rising from the Main.
But
/
. f -
v254j
But One there is of the bright britijjy Race, Superior to the Rest in Form and Grace;
As the bright moon’s, amid the filent Night, ^ Surpafles all the lesser Stars in Light.
Or rather, as the sun’s iiluftrlous Ray obscures all Planets in his glorious Day;
ev’n this bright She, New C ast L e drooping lies; And, if thou help not, by fell Fehris dies;
Tho’ sprung from Heroes, to a Patriot wed, Owing a Race of Patriots to his Bed.
Rouse then thy Godhead, and thy pow’r declare, And from that Fury guard my charming Fair.
She rfuijiieahjds Godaxofe with heavhly Grace, And fhei ambrosial Odours round the Place; Health and enliv’ning Vigour he display’d,
Which promis’d Venus his immediate Aid.
X
Fly hence, said he, to Britam's Clime with Speed,
And then no Help from me your Fears will need.
phcchiis
#
( 255)
Phahus to Garth this Province has confign’d;
And who he Smiles on, certain Health Shall find. where e’er he comes, infernal Fehris flies;
And none, who seek his Aid, by Fehris dies: Doubly my father’s Son, in both his Arts, ^ To Mind and Body Health he still imparts, L
For Health is Harmony of all the Parts. D
His Muse the Mind with Sprightly Vigour sills,
And his Prescriptions cure all lesser Ills.
To him make haste, to him your Fears explain; He Soon will put an End to all your Pain.
The cruqqn. of ilove with Ipeed herself convey’d, Soon asked, and Soon obtain’d his promis’d Aid.
t
He to Newcastle came, and Fehris fled,
The drooping Lady left her sickly Bed.
Venus rejoic’d, and bless’d the wondvous Bard,
And on him casta gracious kind Regard.
Beauty, thus rescu’d from Infernal Spite,
Now fiiines, triumphant, in her native Light.
Long
Long, may she shine, and long may Garth remain, To guard her Health, and ease herhero’^s Pain.
So when the Giants war’d with mighty Love, ^ Minerva quash’d the Earthborn Brood above, >
But this was done by Sacred Wit and Love, ^
/
Well Gentlemen (Said I) your Opinion of these verses. As for my Opinion (Said the Ba. ron) It is of stnall Consequence in Poetry, especially in panegyric; but I own myself pleas’d with Mr, Dickfons Performance here. Nor am 1 (said the Chevalier) to be consulted on this Head; since I own, that there is fearce any Part of Poesy that touches me but Tragedy, except it be where the Pathetic Is brought in happily But (said Downright) he Speaks of another Packet he has sent by this Post, which yet is not come to our Hands, I hope It Is more on the Academy Account, for that pleas’d me.
\
r
N
LET

(2j7)
LETTER XL
so Mrs. Sylvia Allbright, to be left with Mr. Rightdo, at his House in Aldermanbury, London;
Dear Sylvia,
I Am got as far as Dover, in the Way to that Banishment your father’s Arts nave impos’d upon me, in getting me sent, by such a Power that I durft not refill, lo far from all my Soul holds dear; by that Means to get Time to work upon your Constancy, and give your Person, if not your Heart to another. This Fate brings into my Mind the Cafe of Valentine, in Shakyfbeads Two Gentlemen of Verona, for it expresses the Passion 1 lent So nicely, that I will here Set down his Words.
And why not Death, rather than living Torture? To die is to be bamfddfrom myself;
And Sylvia it myself Banished from her Is self from self— — deadly Banifrment!
What Light II Light, if Sylvia be not seen??
Joy is Jcy, if Sylvia he not hyt.
Unless it be to thinks that foe is by.
And feed upon that Shadow of perfbicn Except I be by Sylvia in the nit,
There is no Musc in the Nightingale :
Unless I look, on Sylvia in the Day,
There is no Day for me to look^npon.
She
( ijs)
She is my Ejjence^ and I leave to he
If I be not by her fair Influence
fojhpdj tuumin^d.^ cherijh^d^ l{ept alive!'
*
This is the unhappy State of your faithful Lover,
..Edward Truby,
I like this Gentleman (Said the Chevalkr] who, rather than trouble his miflress with an awkward Speech of his own, makes sbaky/peai Speak for him. And that perhaps (Said the Baron) may please the Lady better. For Verse has itrange Power (affum’d 1) and makes its Way to the Female Heart with a great deal of ease. Mr. Trithy (Said Downright) has made a
food Choice in his spokesman, whatever he as in his Love.
a
%
%
LET
V
'b
(259)
4 ’
LETTER XII
A Dramatic Poets Slavery.
so Mr. C C to be left at Hallh Coffeehouse, in the Playhouse Pajfage, in Driiry lane, London
The Objections you made the other Night were so surprising, and the Play at that Time so much out of my Head, that I cou’d not presently make a just Reply; but having Since, at my Leisure, confider’d their full Weight, I Shall now, I question not, entirely remove them, and show that they are wholly without Ground. Your first Objection, at least the most material, was, that the first: Act had no Relation to the rest of the Play; which, if true, had indeed been of Force enough to have stifled my Endeavours for the acting it. But on a Review of it, I am amaz ’d so
find So nice a Judge, as mr. railing an
Objection from nothing, or from reading with the extremest Neglect or Prejudice, which is below a Man of Sense. For, Sir, if you will but recollect yourself, you will find, that it is as clear as the Day at Noon, that the whole Fable or Plot depends entirely on that Act, and that all the Incidents in the Play are produc’d Successively by it, as much as the Incidents of the Uias are
by the Qiiarrel betwixt Agamemnon and Achilles y
ti6o)
les; and yet that has always been deservedly cf. teem’d the most just and complete Fable that ever was drawn. arijiotu makes two Sorts of Fables, one, where the Incidents produce each other, as in the oedipu s of Sophocles; and the other, when they naturally follow each other; but he with Justice and Reason makes the first the more Excellent. Now, Sir, the Fable of this Play happens (unluckily) to be of this better Sort. For the changing the Place of First pre fident (which is in the very opening of the Play) was absolutely necefiiary to the producing the ill Treatment of Chalons by the brui tality ef old Beaumele, and by that the Pity of La Foi, and his Desire of marrying him to his only Child, whom till that Moment he had defign’d for young Beaumele; and this hasty Resolution of the Father, the slopping of the daughter’s Love to young Beaumele, and the fatal Marriage, produc’d every other Incident evsh to the Catastrophe j So that your Objection is sofar from being true, that the whole Play is entirely built on the first Act, which you were pleas’d to tell me was not of a Piece with the rest of the Play. The next Objection, as well as I can remember, fis. That there are Several good Hints of Passions, which are not pursu’d. In answer to this Assertion I must bring another, which is, that I am confident that there Is not one, no not one Hint of Passion In the whole Play, but what I can prove to be pursu’d as far as Nature and the just Conduct of the Play will Suffer; Son, Sir,
you must know, that there really are certain
Limits and Bounds, in these Things,, which to
trans
( 215i)
transgress, ev’n in a Line, Sometimes k monstrous, and destroys all the Beauty of the paf fion. If you had instanc’d in Particulars, I could have given a more particular Answer. However, I can observe to you from this very Play something on that Head, (I mean before I alter’d it) it was Mr. Breds, and Mr.
C — ’ — Opinion, and that very justly, that after Renaitle had difcover’d to Chalons, that young Beaumele was in his house, I had purfu’d the Hint of the Passion (as you call itj and made him talk too much after the Knowledge of this, when the Nature of his Passion,
nd the Incident requir’d him to make hast in, to Seize him, and revenge his injur’d Honour.
Another Objection is, That there arc in the
stay Several vulgar Expressions -- -- Tho’ this
be a Trifle Scarce worth taking Notice of, yet 1 will touchsafe an answer to it. First, I must alsure you, that I cannot find them out (at least in any of the new Part) tho’ I believe, without Vanity, I know as much of the various Proprieties of the Engliffj Language, as Ml anybody; but, Sir, you must understand, that there are Several vulgar Words, which by their Position aflhme a Grandeur not n iturally their own, as in All for Love, (the Style of which is the most True, Sublime, and Tragical of any in our Tongue) the Word Trim is not only a Vulgar, but a Burlesque Word, yet is exalted by the Position in these Lines.
But they fjall flnd'we''ll sell these hunted Lives
More dearly, than yon trim Bands can buy. N
V
But hf
t 262 j
But allowing that the Words you have by a Angular Penetration discover’d in my Play, have not this happy Advantage, it ought to be no more an Objection to the acting mine, than it was to the acting Perolla, or Ihmim that 13^; the Diction of which last wou’d make a Ca' Spew, (as the Saying Is) yet the Pathos of the Story made it take. But there cannot in Nature be, a more moving and greater Distress, than is in this very Play; which has never been read without drawing Tears from the Hearers. You further objected, that the Method taken to make Amelia innocent, seem’d to
yon forc’d -- -- But Sir, I am confident, that on
Second Reflections, you will find this Objection very weakly grounded. First, for the Incident itself, it is so well prepar’d, and those concern’d in it make it so feazible, that there is not the least Difficulty in the effecting it, which frees it from the Imputation of being forc’d; next it has been on the Stage, in the great Otway's Play of the Orphan, but loaded with far greater Difficulties : There Po'ydore is to deceive the Maid, and a waking Mistrefsf here the Maid is confederate, and the Wife asteep.
But there are Some Incidents, tho’ not without Fault, are very excusahle, because they produce great Beauties; as the extravagant Passion of Cafalio in his Disappointment may, perhaps with Justice, be thought Something beyond Nature, and its Cause; but then all the Subsequent Beauties of that Play depend entirely upon it, and therefore we ea fily forgive and oversee So beneficial a Peccadillo. As for
its
9
(2^3)
its being written in hash and negligently, I confess I know not how to answer it, because it carries Such a latitudinarian Sweep, that it can’t bear a particular Reply; I must have particular Objections, to refute particularly.
Upon the whole, if Plays have been brought on, and approv’d by you the awful Judges, with ten Times the Faults, nay, with Faults that amounted to the grosseft absurdities, and not one half of the Beauties; I hope I shall have the Justice from you, to let this Play have a public Trial before you condemn it.
«
Charles Dickson.
This Letter (Said Downright) shows what hard heasures a Gentleman is brought to, who will venture to write a Play. True (Said the Chevalier) the Pains and Labour of com poling the Piece are recompenc’d by the pleasure; but when that is done, he must be mortify’d first, by Submitting it to a person wbo knows nothing of the Matter. And then (Said the Baron) if he escape that Shelf, risks the damning by votes as injudicious in the Acting. I know this Play (said I) it is The Fatal Dowry of ma/fnger, alter’d very much for the better; and, tho’ it never appear’d on the Stage, is So moving, that I never heard it without Tears.
T E Tr
«
( 2^4)
LETTER XIII
the Reverend Mr. Goodly, u be left, at
chijdh Coffeehouse in St. Paulh Churchyard.
pow, (Said I) this Letter is directed to Mr.
Goodly, and begins Mr. Bickefajf^ here must be some Mistake. That is plain, (said the Chevalier) the Ink is different; the Letter seems to have been written a good while, the Superscription will more. i’ll Solve the Difficulty, (Said duu «r/gho Mr. d/ck/o« tells you he Sends many Letters this Post; in the Hurry he has Sealed up and directed this that lay by him, and left the other, if not Sent it to Some Body elfe. A common Mistake.
Mr. Bickyrfajf,
"’^OUR Advice from Wilfs, in yonv Tathr T of the 20th, gave me the Satisfaction of finding you mortify’d for your quondam Favours to that Player you mention. Manly says of my Lord plausible, that he will praise the very Poets of the Age, whom no Body elfe will praise;; I was really surpriz’d to find the censor of the Age falling yet lower, and praising the Players of the Age, whom no Body elfe will praise, except Settle, in hopes, by their Favour, of exerting one of his admirable Qualities of Taylor, or Poet. I am glad however,
that
{ 26$)
that the Folly of the Fellow has made you capable of distinguishing betwixt the Buffoon and Coxcomb in him. As for his talking critically, and using the Terms of Art, I am sure it must be as the Lady did the Word Ohfcene; which she taking for a fine Word, when she first heard it, apply’d it to everything, as far as her Head drefs; for I am sure he knows no more of the Art of the Stage, or of any other Part of Poetry, than the Lady did of the Word Ob fme. That he is now one, nay perhaps by his Address the chief of the Managers of the Stage, is a scandalous Truth, and that is the Reason the Town is furnish’d with such wretched Plays; Men of Parts and Learning will not submit theirwritings'to such a Judge : For though an ignorant Person may, before this, have had the Management of the Theatre; yet a Man had better have to do with simple plain Ignorance, than with an Ignorance that is fwell’dl with a Smattering, or Opinion of Knowledge; With the former the Force of Art and Nature may prevail; but here Conceit destroys the Taste of Nature, and out of an Affectation of ^ Judgement, throws him perpetually into the Pursuit of Caprice. Michael Qrvantes, .one of the greatest Wits of Spain, attributes the Corruption of the Stage to the ignorant Management of the Players; and as Soon as the Poet and State had left off the Care of that bf A them, all Beauty and Decorum forsook it, as arif totle affures us. When you therefore find the Stage prefer’d by the Learned to philosophy itself, it is not any Stage under the Direction of Players; for there must be Confusion and Corn
ruption.
\ i66)
ruption, because Ignorance and private Gain will be there. Whatever Partiality, Favour, Oppression, Injustice, Treachery, and the like, there is in the greater World, I can asture you, the Miniature of it, the Stage, bears an exact Proportion to it in every Particular. There you see the Unworthy, the Impudent, the Tricking thrive, wear Buskins, and govern momentary Kingdoms; while modest Merit is thrown down and oppress’d, perhaps to the bringing in of a Meuage, though of more real Value than the Tinsel Monarch. There you shall find very worthy Gentlemen and Ladies quite turn’d out of the Affair, while others, by a very partial Injustice, are kept in, who have not half their
Desert. There you shall find C -- -- at the Head
. of the Ministry, and growing rich by the Plunder of the Underlings; while Ben Johnson, the best Comedian in the Nation, is an humble Dependant, and content with a bare Salary : And there is honest Will Pierre, who has stood the Shock of So many Turns of State, lo many
Revolutions, and Tranfinigrations, without advancing beyond a Property man. Perhaps it i3hay be the Providence of his good Genius, which has preserv’d him in that humble Station below Envy and above Contempt, equal to his unambitious Hopes; while Mr. Bright, being in a high Post, has been Subject: to the' evil Fortunes of all great States, is fall’n into Banishment, and stroles about for a Living; and Mr. Dovms, who had been prime Minister to So many buskin’d Monarchs, is thrown aside into a Pension, which, like those at Court, are not long well paid: Atos feriunt Fulmina Montes.
But
( 267)
But the Evils of this State were the more tolerable, did they extend no farther than itself; but by this means the Town is injur’d in their Diversion, the best Plays are suppress’d, the worst expos’d to Sibilation, just as the Caprice dr Interest engages this Judge and Manager. He had lately by him, as he told a Friend of mine, twenty Plays. Now how blind Chance ihou’d direct him to choose the good, and reject the bad, I can’t Imagine; unless he does like a French Governor, who understood no Law, and was yet by his Post oblig’d to hear Cau ses, by the Decision of the Dice 5 for having judicloufly heard both fides, he threw a Main betwixt the Plaintiff and Defendant, and to which ever the Dice gave it, he decided it, and with that success, that his Justice gain’d great Reputation. This Method, in the present Management of the Theatre, wou’d be of great use; for by It the Author had a Chance of success, and a Certainty of no abuse; it wou’d dispatch a great deal of bufiness in a little time, for a Man without reading the Play wou’d Soon decide the author’s Fate, without having his Play garbled, and his Scenes transfer’d to slime Scription (to use an elegantwordof mr.d*ju»^ys, proper enough in this place) of the Player. By this Means a valuable Jewel, lately brought to them by a Friend of mine, niight have had a Chance of obliging the Town with a noble Diversion. I mean, a Play written by and Fletcher, and the immortal Shakespeare, in the Maturity of his Judgement, a few Years before he dy’d. A Piece So excellent, that a Gentleman, who is allow’d a Master of the Stage, tells
N z me.
20 Q I
me, that after reading it Seven times, it pleas’d and transported him, and that it is far beyond any of the Colleague Poets, and inferior to few of the other Poets which are in Print. There is infallible Proof that the Copy is genuine; yet this Rarity, this noble Piece of Antiquity, cannot make its way to the Stage, because a person that is concern’d in it, is a person, who
of all persons Mr. C -- does not approve. The
reason you shall have In my next, having here kept you too long, though the regulating this little Representative of the World is worthy the Care of a censor, in my poor Opinion : Who am,
SIR, Yours,
Charles Dickson.
I know not (Said the Baron) what Pique Mr. Dtckjon had to the Tatler; but it Is certain, it was the most entertaining Paper that ever was publish’d Weekly. But (Said the Chevalier) It was not without itsfaults; and as he had made bold with the peccadillo’s of ail the Town, it is pardonable in another to make bold with his. And in nothing he is (Said I) more faulty than in the praises he gave, not justly distinguishing his Subjects. I confess (Jhid Dcwdrighth) I cou’i not bear to See the Duke of Marlborough have the same Panegyrist with ejicourtandiobber.
LET

( 2^9)
I
LETTER XIV
On the Complete Art of Poetry.
To Mr. gixdow, to be left at Mr. Rivingtonsh Bookseller,, the Bible and Crown in St. Paulh Churchyard, London.
Dear Sir.
\ —
I Have just look d over you Ait of Poetry, and thank you for the many new.dbservations contain’d in that Work.. I don’t question but the Sale will answer its Worth; I wish it may your Pains. As a Friend, : however, you will give me leave to Say, that I think you have not Said enough on the enthuliasm of Poetry. Cafauhon the younger will furnish you in his Treatise on that Subject with fine Remarks, as will Mr. Dennh's essay. But of this more when we meet, which I intend very Soon, when Mr. Gildon may expect to find me
Hti hearty Friend and Servant,
• *’ *
George Sewell,
I am glad ( Said I) that Dr. Sewell has given his Approbation of this Book, which Was my Companion in this Journey to Pard, and which entertain’d me very agreeably there. For my part (Said the Baron') I know nothing of It 5
So that I can Say nothing to it : Nor I ( as
N 5 fum’d
( 2?0)
fum’d the Chevalier) but I will get one as Soon as I come to London, on this Recommendation, The Doctor ( said Downright) Seems to mistake the Design of the Author, when he wishes he had Said more of the enthufiasm of Poetry; For he proposes Rules for regulating the Fancy, and informing the Judgement; but pretends not to teach a Genius, that must be born with the Poet, that is the Nature which Horiif# jm*'® with Art to make a complete Bard, and with which therefore his Design had nothing at all to do.
LETTER XV
0*
On little Sawny the Poet,
To Mr. Spleemll at his Chambers in the
Inner temple^ London,
Dear Ned,
I Have just receiv’d your Invective against little Sawny the Poet, with whom you seem very angry that he has, without Merit, gain’d the applause of the Town : But, my Friend, you Seem concern’d at what ought not to move you at all; for it is what daily happens, and ever has, as we find by the repeated (Complaints of the good Poets almost of all Ages. That you are in the wrong, is plain; for either he has Merit, or he has not; if he has, you injure him; if he has not, you injure yourself to be uneasy at a worthless Trifle, But prithee, dear
Ned,
(271;
Ned, envy him not So transitory a Satisfaction as the Public ilpplause, which is but of a Day; for the Same Town often condemns the Creature of Its own Praise, and leaves him to Oblivion or Contempt; so that if this be all that Sawny gets, ’tis nothing at all. But you Say he gets Money by It at a strange rate, nay far more than the best Writers ever got in So Small a time, and that he does not deserve, as being a miserly Sneaking Fellow. And does this raise your Anger? Why, if he has not the Soul to use it, he gets nothing, according to that, Tam
indiget Avarua quod habet, quam quod non habet; the Miser 'wants what he has, as well a what he has not. I can’t find by all this, but that you are in reality ishuwy’s Friend, and not Enemy; you are angry with him that he is envious, malicious, a Miser, and a Poetaster; that is, you wou’d have him generous, free, candid, and a
food Poet; what Friend con’d desire more for, im, or wish him better? At worst it is no just cause of Anger; for if he be that Man you describe him, he has a Devil within him, always about him, that does and must perpetually plague and torment him, and needs not your curses to make him more wretched.
But after all, what if Sawny shou’d really have Merit at the Bottom? You don’t like his Poesy, nor do 1 much admire it: But what then? that does not make him a Poetaster. But all Men of sense are of our Mind; that is very uncertain. That there are Men of Sense that do not approve of his Poetical Performances, is true. Mr. Dryden himself lay under the same Disadvantage : Matt. Clifford, the late Bishop of
N 4 Rochejler,
( 272)
■jlod.ejler, the late Duke of Buckingham, and Sir Charles Sidley, were Men of the first-rate of Wit) and they unanimously condemn’d, if not contemn’d him; yet Sure no Body now will deny him to be a Poet, and a very good Poet too. Sawny is a young Man, and has a great deal of Time before him to improve his Learning and Judgement, in which his greatest: Defectlies. He seems not to want Fancy, but that Fancy wants Regulation. He is perhaps too ignorant of the Rules of Art, and hus given us a great deal of Stuff that will not stand the Test of a good Judge. Well, but you must confess that in Mr. jaydeyfs Works there is a great deal of rub bifh, and that his latest persormances are his best. Take away Coopers hill, and a very few more things from Sir John Denham, and wbat is there worthy the Name of a Poet in his Works V I might proceed to Some others, as Covdey in particular, take away his iffyjww to his pinda ricks, and Some (3ccafional Pieces, with his Fragment of the Davideis; and though he will always maintain the Character of a Man of Wit and Learning, I fear that of a Poet will be scarce his due. Let Sawny therefore alone, let him go on and if he never give us things better than he has done, why then he will vanllh like a Flash in the Pan, and ne’er be thought on more : If he does ever give us a good Poem, why then we ought to forgive him all his bad ones.. This is the Opinion of, dear Ned,
Thy faithful Friend,
Indolent Easy.
( 273)
I think ( said Vsrwmrifittf) Mr. Easy is in the right on’t, and that we ought not to condemn a young Man for some ill Pieces of Poetry, provided there be any Prospect: of better from him. Sawny (affum’d the Chevalier) began at the wrong End, in writing Rules for others e’er he understood the Rules of Art himself;; is the Task of Judgement, and Years. The Athenians (said the b<zro») never’ fuffer’d a Poet to bring a Play on the Stage till he was past Thirty j and, I think, that it wou’d be better if our young Fry were deny’d the press till that Age at leash The Advice of Horace (said I) shou’d be remember’d by them,. Nonum prematur in Annum, and that wou’d Save
us a World of that that now ’tis fill’d!
with.
I
m
...............................................
j • ' '
J
#
• •
0
'' LET -

4
\
( 274)
LETTER XVI
fthe Labour in vain, or Laws about
Marriage.
\
To Mr. Wedwoud, at his Chambers in Coney court in grayvinn, London.
Dear Billy,
YO U have impos’d a difficult Taste on me, when you desire my Advice about your Choice of a Wife. ’tis true, I have more Years over my Head than you, and know Something more bf Mankind; yet I do assure you I confess my Incapacity of giving you Counsel which you may depend on in this Particular. It is a terrible Rilk we run when we marry, Since all the Content and happiness of our future Lives depend upon it, and yet, like Death, it Seems instituted by Nature; and the Reason of humane Society is too strong to be laugh’d out of the World by our young Debauchees. There must be married Men, or all would be Confusion, or the Race cease to be. You must therefore confider what you propose to yourself in a wise, and then enuse accordingly. Do you propose merely the Propagation of your Family, to keep up the House of the Widuoud's from your own Loins? if So, be sure you ebufe a Teemer, a Woman that is likely to make you a Father of a strong and lusty
I Race.
I
( 275)
Race. If you would have her to be your Friend and Companion of your Counsels, you must take care that she have sense, Prudence and good-humour, as well as Virtue. But, alas, few of the Sex are thus qualify’d, their Education is not directed to improve the Beauties of the Mind, and teach them the use of Reason;; are left to the Guidance of their Passions, and to the adorning of their Persons; they are instructed in all the little Arts of captivating the heedless Hearts of Men, generally as ignorant as themselves. We meet with no Cornelia s nowadays, who instructed her Sons the Gracchi in Eloquence, and other manly Virtues; if a Wife prove a good Housewife, and manage prudently, it is the height of a man’s Expectation, and too few of them do even that.
This being the State of Matrimony at this Time, and this the Condition and c^hralifica tions of the fair Sex, our Business is to make the best of a bad Market, and endeavour to choose a Woman who may give us the least dis quiet. This should make you avoid the choice of a very beautiful Lady; for, first, they are seldom remarkable for good sense, and there can be no happiness with a Fool; next they are generally proud, conceited, and unmanageable, and really believe that all the Flatteries of their Beauty give them every Perfection that their Adorers place in them in the height of their Desires;; thirdly, it is to draw all the Fops in Town after you, in hopes of Opportunities with her. And you may.
N 6 know.
()
% <«
know, by your own Frailty, that multiplying Temptations is not the way to be always innocent, which holds still stronger in a young Woman, who has not that strength of Reason to defend her from the Subtle infinua taons of every agreeable Fellow, who makes ife his Business to be still’d in all the most easy Approaches to the Fair, that may give him Success. A young beautiful uncxperienc’d Lady thinks not far enough to confider the ill, Consequences of her Infidelity, being wholly, amus’d and taken up with the present Satisfaction and Pleasure of an Intrigue, and too late finds the long Pains and Anxieties that attend a Cause which Virtue does not direct; and if she ever reform, it is not till your Peace and' Honour are destroy’d, which can never be restor’d. If, indeed, you can bare the Fate of a Cuckold with Calmness, and caress in your Bosom the Charmer that betrays you, you may choose a Wife for her Beauty. I have seen a Man, who had the appearance of a Gentleman,, kept the best Company, and past for a pctson of some Consideration, who could, as the Town talk’d, even see his dear Wife cornute him before his Face; and another, who,, toletihis wife’s Gallants know when she yyould be at leisure, declare in the public Choeolate hbufe, that Such a Day he was engag’d' out of Town with a Mistress, who, hesheliev’d, would not part with him till the next Morning, the poor Creature was so fond shim and this was the Cue to his own wife’a loversy.to have recourse to her without
Interruption.
( 277)
« J
Interruption. But both the Wretches made Profit of their help meet’s Prostitution, who, though beautiful in the Opinion of the Town, were yet thoroughly mercenary, and still’d in all the meretricious Arts of a common Trader. But, my Friend,. I am very Sure this is not your Temper.
There have been and are other Husbandis who are lb bewitch’d with fondness of their Wives, that they cannot resolve to resent their Injuries; but, after a Ramble with some Scoundrel, or, at least, some Fop or other fbr a Week or a Month, receive them with Joy at their Return. Nor are you one bf these, if I am not very much mistaken In your Notions of Things. I am sure nothing could render you more miserable than Such a wise; avoid therefore a beautiful Mate; Siich a one may do well enough for a mistress to Satisfy a present Appetite. But asture yourself that the Saying of Dryden is perfectly true in this;
All objebs l&fe by too familiar Views,
The most Sparkling and amazing Beauty wears away by having her always before your Eyes; she affords nothing new, or, at least, not enough to render herself So always; when you are admitted to all her Recesses, See her in all Conditions, feel her ill Humours, and the like, the Goddess vanishes, and leaves only a peevish worthless Creature behind. On the other Hand, a Woman, who is but very indifferent in her Person, grows, by Custom, agreeable,
( 278)
able, and, if she have Sense and good-humour, endears herself to you by Time, till you discover Charms in her worthy your Friendship, and which you did not, perhaps, expect, because you judg’d by her Body, not her Mind. And it is, indeed, a difficult Matter, to thrust the Impressions made by the Appearance of a beautisul Figure out of our Councils, when we consult about this Choice. But I throw not my Advice away on Such as are drunk, or in a Severish Frenzy of the Blood, but offer it to one in his Senses. If you are in love, it is too late to advise; Reason has then fled the Field, and Passion rides in triumph, and will not be contradicted.
In short, let your Choice fall on one who is your Equal for Birth and Fortune, one that is truly religious and prudent, that is Mistress of a complying Temper, not govern’d by Violence and denre of Rule; one who shall think you as you are, her Head, her Lord, and be ready to Submit to your Will in all reasonable Things, for you must.be sure to make your Sway easy and just.
If, after all these Cautions, you miss of that happiness you propos’d to yourself in Wedlock, it must be the fault of your false Judgement, in railing your Expectation to Things that cannot be hop’d for from this State; or it is because there is no persect happiness in this lise, and you ought to bear the Conditions of Mortality with a Manly and chris tlan resolution.
I know
( ^19)
1 know that the general Inquietudes of the marry’d Life have made some Men offer at Ways and Means of remedying the Evils of it; but I could never find any of them reasonable or capable of being reduc’d to Practice. I have more than once heard, from both Sexes, that our Laws, on this Account, are defective, in confining Man and Wife together for Life; and urge, that since mutual consent made the Union, the Same ought to put an End to it. Others are for having a year’s Probation, before they enter into the fatal For better or worse. But all these Things are mere whimseys, and would certainly not remove the Evil complain’d of.
Give me leave to tell you a Story I have read in a Book of Travels to this purpose. I will not be answerable for the Truth of the Fact, but I am very sure that the Moral is just“
“the many Islands about Borneo, “there is one, Says my Author, of a pretty “large Circumference, and very well peopled, “call’d by the Natives Adrajii. The King of “this island is in his Power absolute, and bis “Will is the only Law of his Subjects. There “reign’d here, about a Century ago, one “Aviejii, which, interpreted, is the Father, “which Name he gain’d from his Love of “his People, whose ease and happiness was “all his Study and his Care. There is a great “Freedom of conversation in Adrafi, and “the Manners of the Inhabitants are very
“near
( 2 50)
** near those of our Part of Europe. Their Marriages are for Life, as ours are, and full “of the Same Complaints and uneafinefses*
“The good King was heartily troubled at ** the Consideration of this Evil, and Set him“ “to find out Some Remedy for it. Accordingly he consulted the wise Men of his Na“ “and ordered every one to offer what he thought might be of use in this Affair. “Upon the whole it was thought that a year’s Probation, or a temporary Marriage, which the Couple might dissolve by mutual Con“ “attefied before a Magifirate, were she only means of making that State more a“ “The First: was first try’d, and she “king’s Will promulgated, and put in Exe “cution with the utmost Exactness. But, “alas, to no manner of Purpose, the Women “easily dissembled their ill Humours fora “Year; and then being fix’d, prov’d more in tolerable than if there had been no such“ “Besides, this was but a lame re medy, since it reach’d only those who were “not marry’d already, which left the greatest I ** part of the Sufferers in their former ill State.
The Second therefore was put in Execution, but to full asdittle purpose, this being not the “proper Medicine for the Malady. Besides ** produc’d a thousand ill consequences not “foreseen, as a general Confusion; present Pastions were the Ground of present di vorces; and these multiply’d to th De“ “that all other bufiness of the Magi ♦‘‘ strate was Set aside, to hear causes of this
“nature 3
( 28l)
‘‘ nature; and many Men marry’d the di vorc’d Wise, ' only to get into the Secrets of “his enemy’s Family. This was the Source of litigious Suits, and, in a little Time, brought all into Confusion“
“good' King, troubled that all his “Endeavours, in this Particular, had been ‘‘ but a mere Labour in vain; and that the “Evil he sought to cure was made worse, J and his Subjects more miserable; he,, re“ “the old Law again, and soit re“ “to this Day. He told his People that “he had done all he could to make them hap“ “but he found that lay only in them“ “and that if they would grow wiser“ “regulate their Pastions,. and more con fust their Reason in their Actions and Con“ “of Life, they might be happy; if not, “their Misery lay at their own Doors, and “not his.
f *
The King, indeed, was in the right; and if the marry’d Couple would, they might be easy, at least, if not happy. If therefore you resolve to marry, resolve to make yourself easy, be prudent yourself, and your Wife cannot make you uneasy; for it is, in my Opinion, generally Speaking, the man’s Fault,, who wants Prudence in his Conduct, that makes the Wife bad. Be cautious in your Choice, and always carry an even Hand; be religious yourself, govern your Pastions, and show a Tenderness for her you chuse; convince her of her Errors with mildness and
reason
( 282)
Reason 5 and then it is ten to one you may come in for the Flitch of Bacon. I am
faithful Friend.
/
ecnd Servant,
Will. Caution.
A very wholesome Lecture (Said I) for those who are bound for the Coast of Matrimony. True (afisum’d Downright) but I am afraid he will have but few Hearers. He may (Said the Baron) have Hearers enough, but, like other good Preachers, not so many Followers of his Doctrine. Good Advice, indeed (Said the Chevalier) against our Corruptions is Seldom much regarded, which makes us So wretched as we are.
Here Supper and Company put an End to this day’s Inquiry. •
The End of the Fourth B o 0 k.
%
( s8j)
smssmssmsims9im&i^sim
✓
B O O K V
E began the next Day two Hour JIB ® more early, that we might dis
^ ^ patch our intended Talk before
could come upon
LETTER I.
of Music, which preferable, ours or that of
the Ancients.
To John Savage, Efn near Maidston in
Kent.
My good Friend,
YOU impose a hard Talk upon me, and at a Time when I am not at leisure to consult Such Books as are necessary on this Occasion. To decide the Question which is the
most
( 284)
most preferable, the Music of the ancient Greeks, or that of our Times, a Man should have both before him; but we have nothing of the Ancients, in that kind, left us, by which we may with exact Justice decide this Controversy. However, I shall go on such probable Conjectures as the Matter will afford; and that is sufficient for an Opinion which extends not beyond Curiosity. The wonderful Accounts of the Force of the Greek. Music would persuade us that they ought to have the Preference in this, as well as in Painting, Poetry, Sculpture and Oratory.
For this Reason, as well as others, I do venture to declare, that it is my Opinion that the Greeks exceltd the Moderns in Music, at least, in the Vocal, if not Instrumental. Ifanc Voffirn, in his admirable Book De Viribm Rythmf five De poematmn KM. .eymentte prov’d the Advantage to be on the fide of the Ancients, answering all the Argunaents that have been brought by the Moderns to the contrary; to him I therefore refer you. pandroum, a learned Italian, and a very curious Enquirer into Antiquity, in his Book De Rebm invents & will not allow the best of his Countrymen to merit the very Name of Musicians, in Comparison of the Greeks. Him also you may consult on this Subject for your full Satisfaction.
If Encouragement be the Life of Art, Pdu
sick had never greater than in that wonderful Nation; it was reckon’d the Qualification of a Gentleman, nay, and of a Hero thxxseuftpidesin
his
his Alcejih introduces Hercules himself linging at his Entertainment in the Palace of Admetm.'* If we may credit the wonderful Effects of Music, which are on Record, we may julllyr give the Preference to the Greeks, no modern Music ever producing the like; particularly what we read of Timothem, in the Time of Alexander, who by the Force of his Song rais’d and laid what Pastions he pleas’d. Sax
Grammaticus indeed tells us of the like done
<
by a Gothic. Fiddler; but that is look’d on all to be a mere Fable, Mustek never having been in that Perfection in those Northern Parts; nor were that People ever so remarkable for a fine Ear and Taste. Perhaps the fine Gusto of the Grecians might be mov’d east er, and transported at a Harmony which wou’d net have the Same Effect on a more insensible Generation. Their Pastions were strong, and arry’d them on many Occasions beyond what they do the common Sort of Men; whether it were caus’d by the Climate, or by the Nature of their government, which was free; for Example, a Courtesan of whose Name,
if I mistake not, was Phryne, was accus’d in a Capital Cafe, and the Fact prov’d fb fully against her, that her Advocate us’d all his Arguments in vain to deliver her; which finding, he took off the Veil with which she was covered, and bid them condemn her if they cou’d. She was of So exquisite a Beauty, that the Judges were quite confounded, and taken Captive by her Charms to Such a degree, that
they acquitted her; which produc’d a Law,
that
/
( ib6)
that no Criminal for the future should appear bare fac’d in the Court,
Though this may be look’d on as a weakness, yet it is a Proof of the Force of the Pastions in the Athenians; and indeed I have obferv’d, that those People, who have the greatest: Wit and Sense, have alw: s the strongest Pastions.
This gave that rower to the Demagogues, who, by their Oratory, and the fine Arts of Peifuaston, cou’d, and frequently did carry their Point, by working on the Pastions of the Athenians. The Athenians indeed were nice Observers of the Performances of Poetry, Mu stck, Oratory, c. and were Senstble of the least Slip of the Poet, Musician, c. Thus when Amphiarus was seen in the Tragedy of that Name to go into the Temple, and afterwards found to be elsewhere, they damn’d the Play, because the Poet had not taken care to bring him out again before their Eyes. And when Euripides, in his Play of Bellerophon, had made that Prince Speak in the Vindication of Avarice; the whole Audience rose up and interrupted the Action, till Euripides came out on the Stage, and desired them to have patience till they Saw how he punish’d him for what he had Said. This appeas’d them, and bellerophon*s Punishment made them go away well satissy’d. The Same happen’d on Hippot
litufs laying, My Tongue has freorn, hut my Mind is free; because it seem’d to encourage Equivocation in an Oath. But this reach’d all the Greeks, the Lacedemonians themselves not excepted 5 for when Lyjander had taken Athens,
and
( 287)
and it was debated whether that City shou’d be destroy’d, upon hearing Some verses out of the jbteurd, that General spar’d Athens, and return’d Home.
After Nidus was routed in Suily, and his Army almost destroy’d, many of the Soldiers fav’d their Lives only by repeating Some Verses out of Euripides.
But it would be endless to give all the in ftances of this Kind which yet remain in history;; are enough to show the Genius and fire Taste of the People; and where those are join’d with Such Encouragement, itis impostible but that Mustek as well as Poetry, and the other fine Arts, must arrive at Perfection.
Music was a great Part of their Dramatic Entertainments, for the Chorus in their Tragedies was all Sung to Instruments, and Dancing 5 and what made it the more touching, was that the Poets then compos’d their own Music, and, if I am not mistaken, there was scarce any Such thing as Instrumental Music without the Vocal; So that the Sounds being afsisted with the words, prov’d more pathetic, and reach’d the Soul. Whether in the Odteum there were any Performances wholly in ftrumental, I cannot remember, tho’ I am apt to think there were not from the very Name of the Place.
We have Vocal Music tis true; but, as Isaac Vojjius observes, more Regard is had by our composers to the Notes than to the Words; nay, we find the most Senseless Songs generally the best let; and, with the Masters Pardon,
t 200;
don, I must Say it, we have had few of them remarkable for their Sense and underftind ing. Harry Rural indeed began to confider what he compos’d, and made his Notes always express what the Poet delign’d; he shew’d the Way, but I do not find that there has been any great Progress made in it since he dy’d. He indeed painted (if I may Say So) in Music, witness his Froft scene, and Several other Parts of his Opera Music.
Thus have I in short given you my answer to your section' ' the modern or ancient Music was most excellent: There is more to be Said of the modern Instruments, at least of the Violin; for we cannot discover by those which we find in the Bajjo Relievo's any one among the Ancients (except the Wind Instruments) that cou’d have the Length of Sound : That they had long Notes and short in their Music, is plain from their Poetry, which cou’d not elfe be pofiibly express’d. The Organ was of later Invention than the old Greeks, and the Violin is wholly modern. What might be Said on this Head is too large to come into a Letter; I shall defer that till we meet, and her e subscribe myself,
Your faithful Servant,
P H I L PHILANTIQ.UE,
Tho’ I am of this gentleman’s Opinion (Said the Baron) yet J think it' is one of those Points which cannot at this distance be decided.
()
elded. It is in that Particular (continued the Chevalier) like the Dispute about their Painting : If we credit what Pliny and others tell ^ us o Apelles, Polignotus, 'Zeuxis, and others, we must grant the Palm to the Greeks : If we look on those Narrations to be fabulous, we cut off the Surest Foundation of their Praise and Preference. I think (said Downright) these are idle and uselefs Inquiries,
Since it is impossible, as Things stand, ever to come at the Truth. It is however certain (Said I) that our Vocal Music will admit of much Improvement, and very likely that they who study’d that So much, and had Such a Regard to it, should excel us, who mind the Words little, if at all.
I
0
V •
O LETS
%
\
( 29°)
LET T E R II
Phe Sin against the Holy Ghcfi.
/
ro Mrs. Eufebia Saintly, at her Fathen
House, in Maidston, Keni:.
Dear Coufn,
SINCE my coming to London, I have heard some News, which I believe will not be very agreeable to you; but yet what you wou’d willingly hear; for tho’ the Misfortunes of a / Friend can never please us, yet we are desirous
to know all that befalls them. Your old Playfellow, Mrs. Betty Aimhigh, is married; but her Marriage was of fatal consequence to her Mother, I wish it may prove better to herself.
The old Lady you know was a constant Church Woman, and never miss’d Morning nor Evening Prayers at the Abby, when she was in Health and able to go from her House thither. But alas! I am afraid all this Devotion was mere outside, the Effect of Custom, the Church Mustek being a Sort of Entertainment to her, and took up Some of her Hours which lay heavy on her Hands. I wou’d not willingly traduce the Dead, but the Event shew’d that the Bent of her Soul was to this World, and not to the next, stnce a Disappointment in her Destres cou’d make her guilty of Self murder. In short, the Matter is
thus;
(291)
thus: You know, that because her Daughter was a good Fortune, she was always for a son-in-law of Quality, no common Gentleman cou’d 20 down, for she thought three hundred Pounds a Year deferv’d no leis than a Coronet. How many good Matches, which Mrs. Bniy might have had, did she fet aside?? last a valet de chamber, understanding the Arabiticn of both Mother and Daughter, in his Lord s absence out of Town, made use of bis Coach and Equipage to pass for a Man of (^ality, and carried the Imposture on So well, th at he won the young lady’s Heart, and the old one’s consent. They had not been married many Days, but the Truth was discover’d, to the great Mortification of the Mother, tho’ not of the Daughter, who, tho’ disappointed of her imagin’d Grandeur, yet lik’d the young Man so well, that she seem’d easy with her Lot. One Sunday when they were all going ta Church together, the old Lady pretended she had left her Prayer book at Home, and wou’d needs go back for it herself, bidding them goon, for she wou’d not be long behind them. She return’d Home, and immediately hang’d herself; her Daughter finding she did not come, sent her Boy Home to see whether she were well or not, who brought back the fatal News. I need not tell you of the daughter’s Trouble, since you know she was perfectly dutiful, and lov’d • her Mother as much as the Indulgence file had always found from her deserv’d.
This Sin of Self murder I look upon as the Sin against the Holy ghost, since the Sinner dies in the very Act of Sin, and cannot there
O z Sore
( 292)
sore repent, and without Repentance there can be no Remillion, Tkou Shall not fill is the express Commandment; whoever therefore kills, breaks that Commandment; but whoever kills himself,, the Aft deprives himself of the Means of forgiveness. I may be mistaken, but I am sure if final Impenitence be a Sin against the Holy Spirit, this must be, for this is soon
wou’d have thought that this miscar riage of Mrs. Betty shou’d have been a warning to her Sister, Mrs. Olivia; but it was not, her Youth, her Beauty, and the same Chase of Quality run in her Head, tho’ her Fortune was but One Thousand Pounds; but she had not better Luck than the other, a Barber took Lodgings by her, and past for a Knight, and so carried her. But Olivia us’d not that Moderation on the discovery, which her Sister had done. On the contrary, full of Revenge she runs away from him, and surrenders herself to a criminal Amour with a certain Nobleman, who had made Addresses to her before, but who was a married Man.
This is the ill Fortune of these two young Ladies, I dare Say it never will be yours; however, to avoid it, put an end to honest ned.s Suit, and let me find you married when I come down into the Country. Your Father approves him, and I believe you have no Aversion to him; I am no Friend to these tedious Wooings, the Sooner you marry, the sooner you’ll be a Mother; I promise to stand Godfather to the firstborn. Who am
Your loving Coujin,
Anthony Frugal.
t2p3;
«
POSTSCRIPT
Your Sister has one from me this Post, and in that you will find an Account of the Fate of our Cousin Biddy.
Pride is the Destruction of those (Said the Baron) who have not the Art of managing of it with some Caution. Pride (Said I) has been thought one of the best Preservers of a woman’s Honour. I am afraid (said the Chevalier) that it is but a weak Defence of Virtue, that is borrow’d from our Vice and Folly. This young Lady (said down right) confirms me in the Opinion, that Women shou’d never have a greater Fortune than just to marry them suitably to their Birth., There is a Law against Healing an heiress, but that has Seldom had any great Effect; besides, I think it unreasonable, that a Man shou’d be hang’d for marrying any Woman with her own consent; and I do not See how any one can be married against her Will. I think it wou’d be much a better Law, if it were enacted that if a young Woman was married without the Consent of her Relations, her Fortune shou’d go to her next Male Relation, and then few wou’d pursue an heiress only for her Money.
• V
o 3 L E T
1294)
LETTER III
To Mr, f. Sarah Saintly, at her Fat he/s House,
in Maiditon, Kent. -
Dear Coufn,
'OUR Sffier has one from me hy this -®- Soil about the ill Fortune of a Friend of yours, consult her, and you’ll See the Particulars, and I desire you wou’d communicate this to her. Your Cousin Biddy is married, the Manner Something out of the Way. You know that She has lately been perverted to Popery by the Arts of the Priests and the Means of a young Fellow, for whom Biddy had a more than ordinary Love, and whom at last she rcfolv’d to take for her Husband : Larry Trujiy had laid long Siege in vain, not knowing her Attachment to this young Pafji; but Harry was an Heretic, and therefore had little hopes left him, but in her Maid, who was perfect in his Interest, and inform’d him that her mis trcss had a Design of marrying the other privately, and that a Romifo Priest was to perform the Ceremony in the Night, for fear her Mother shou’d find it out, who, since her turning her Religion, kept her very close, nor suffer’d any one to come near her. But what will not a young Woman do and contrive to compass the Man she loves, especially if she be oppos’d by her Relations? She made her
Maid
V;
Maid ber Confident, because she cou’d not carry on her Design without her; and she betray’d the to Harry, and contriv’d Matters So as to admit him for the other Lover, and not to appoint the Priest to come; his Shape, Stature, and Voice, at least in that whisper they were forc’d to make use of on this Occasion, could not distinguish him from the other. He caress’d her, and was as impatient as a young Fellow u(es to be when he is in the Bedchamber of his mistress, whom he lov’d, in the Night, and in the Dark. In short, no Priest came, the house Doors were fasten’d up, and he cou’d not retreat if he wou’d: She was un dress’d as having gone to Bed, to disguise all to the Mother. He press’d, she faintly de nied; but on his contracting himself with the express Words of the Matrimony, in the maid’s hearing, and Vows and Imprecations of marrying her the next Day; all was agreed, and to Bed they went, and Ahigdtl withdrew.
All had like to have been spost’d, when he
Came to Say, I Henry take thee Bridget -- -- -- -- --
How Slid she, Henryk I thought your Name had been Jam: s! No, no, my Dear, Said he, that was a Nickname given me for being a Jacobite. This Satisfied her till the next Morning, when she found herself in Bed with Harry Trujiy, her fl'ghted Lover; but it was too late to. go back. The Mother caught them together; but when her Rage was over, he told her the whole Story, and thought she wou’d be better pleas’d to have a Protestant for her son-in-law than a Papifi, since there was hopes that by that Means her Daughter
O 4 might
f
\
( ^96)
might be regain’d to the Church of England from that of Rome. The old Gentlewoman was by this Consideration appeas’d, and so Biddy and Harry were by her Consent married. I hope she will hear Reason, and then I am Sure that all the Popish Priests in London will not be able to argue with him on that Point. I have no more News to send you this Post. But am
Your loving Kinsman,
Anthony Frugal.
How busy (Said Downright) are these Popish emiflsaries, in perverting our People to their Superstition? But (Said 1) chiefly among poor Women, weak, ignorant Girls; for none else will be misted by their Sophistry. If we lose Ground (said the Chevalier) among the Vulgar, we find the better Sort frequently coming over to us; and one gentleman’s Family lost to Popery, is more Damage to its cause, than an hundred of the Vulgar gain’d, and will in Time put an end to our Fears that way; for when there are no Men of Estates to Support and harbour the Priests, they will cease pur luing their Market here.. They are bold Men (concluded the Baron) who, notwithstanding that it is treason to pervert a Protestant, dare yet So openly attempt it as they do; but our Laws In that case are So Seldom put in Execution, that they lose their Terror. The su edijh Law well executed woii’d be more effectual.
LET
( 297)
L E T T E R IV
Merit cf no Consideration with our Great Men.
TIO Mr. Kenright, at Canterbury, Kent.
My Fnend,
I Was two Days ago to wait on my Lord -- -- -- -- -
and pressed my Gale to him as close ai cou’d. I laid aside that foolish Modesty which I am sensible had done me not a little Mischief in my Pretensions, and Spoke with all that Freedom and boldness which a good Cause ought to inspire. But I know not how it is, an afifum’d Assurance is So awkward, that it Seldom does us any good; it must be natural, and attended with an artful address, which T find I am wholly to Seek in. I urg’d my known Merits, and the Sufferings I had gone
through very close -- -- -- My Lord laugh’d j P
press’d them more home; My Lord laugh’d louder : Well Said he at last, honest Mr. Fdtrcaje,
I will do what I can for your Merit, which Worst be pronounc’d very emphatically, and with a hud Laughter left me. You are a Man who lave known the Court, and may perhaps in: erpret this Riddle to me, for my lord’s be laviour Seems to me to be very enigmatick.. s Merit really a Jest then? If so, the best way : o Preferment, is to have none. I know not iow it is, but I plainly perceive that I am out
O 5 in
1
»
()
in my Conduct. I desire your Instructions, which shall be faithfully follow’d by, Sir,
.. Yout faithful humblfseyvant,
. ' H A R R y F a i k C a s e.
0
^ Mr. (Said the Barorn) is thost certainly
out in urging his Merit to a Courtier. True, (astum’d the Chevalier) it is a sort of Upbraiding him,; or is a kind of Dun for a Right; whereas a true Courtier must never be told, that he has any Fault; and perhaps the good Lord, who was here address’d to, had no Merit hishself, and then it was affronting him to pretend to any. Preferment at Court (Said I) ss like heav’n (in Some Sort) it is not the wise
that get it; but Such only who as they have ^ no Merit pretend to none. cur great Men (concluded Votvnright) are for making what they do real Favours, and shou’d they prefer the deserving, it wou’d be like paying a Debt, not doing a Favour.
A
/
L E T
.00
( PP)
* '
Yi.. —. — ... -- -- -- -- --,,
0
letter V
Lo Mr. Smoothly, to L left at Peterh Coffeehouse,, Coveiu
Garden.
• - - -
Mr. Smoothly,
I Send to you for my Money 5 and you reply
you love me, you die for me, and 1 do not know how many good Morrows. You tell me, that my Eyes warm you at this distance : IS they do, yiv. Smoothly, you are the more ingrateful not to pay me my Money. You Say you have won an hundred Pound Such a Day, Two hundred another, and that I shall have it all; pray let me have my fisty, which I lent you in distress, ' and give whom you please the rest. Let me have no more of your filthy Love, but let me have my Money, or you shall hear from me in another Manner.
y
Abigail Short sight.
\
This Letter (Said 1) shou’d have been Sent away with the rest that are about bufiness. But this we may observe, that this poor Woman has been impos’d on, and bubbled of her Money by a Town Sharper, for Such is snooth ly; he lives by gaining the Opinion of the old Women, to whom he makes all his acldres ses. And past (Said the Baron) no doubt, Sora fine Gentleman in her Eyes, till he had got her Money and left her. And she may write
O 6 long
( o)
long enough (said Downright) before Mr. Smoothly will put an end to her Pain. Men of his Kidney (Said the are not frighten’d
with the Name of a Bailiff; and the old Woman may rest affur’d, that her Money will ne’er revisit her Eyes from such a Hand.
LETTER VI
To Jeoffry Amherst Esq; to be left at the Pofi
Hottfe in the Temple, London.
Dear Sir,
I Here enclose my Letters to the Most Noble
-- -- -- - which contain the Proposal we
us’d to talk of about the Establishing an Academy of Sciences here in London, much superior to that seton Foot by the famous Cardinal Richelieu, as you will nnd on the Perusal. For that extended no farther than the regulating and fixing the Standard of the French Tongue; this to History and all Arts and Sciences, which can polish the Mind, and bring in a useful course of Learning. I have this Post Sent the Sequel of these Letters to your Friend Mr. Worthy, who will let you have a Sight of them. When you have perus’d what I Send you, your Approbation will be extremely agreeable to me, because when I have that, I am Sure I have reason of my - Side. But I shall Say no more on this Head, leaving your Judgement Sree in the Decision osmy Defect or Merit. I am, dear Sir,
Your moji faithful, humble Servant,
Charles Dickson.
(jol)
LETTER VII
To the Moji iioble the — — — of — — —
A Proposal for ejiahlijhing an Academy Royal
for Sciences, in Seven Letters.
"My Lord,,
tho’ the Illness I have lain under, has thus long defer’d my Satisfaction in bringing this Design in a more complete Form, than your Lordship has yet seen it; yet, my Lord, It has been no small Amends to me to find, that the Demonstration of what I propose was not more convincing of its feazibl lity, than my Application to your Lordship of its Accomplishment, to the Men of the best Judgement, to whom I have imparted both. For where there Is a Soul capacious of great Designs, and a Fortune able to keep It above the lower Aims, of private Interest, and a Zeal for its country’s Good, evident on ev’ry occali on, there can be no Obstacle great enough to op pose, nor Difficulty Sufficient to vanquish its Endeavours for the Service of the Public, especially in a Thing, which brings with It Advantages as great as the Glory; where you refine the Degeneracy of a once noble People, from that Barbarity it has for want of a Public Spirit contracted j and revive that ancient Virtue, which once made So considerable a Figure

( 302.)
gure in the World, nay, lift it up, in all Probability, not only aboye.that, but. to a Worth above the noblest Nations of Antiquity : For the Glory of St People, conlistf not only in the Extent of their Dominions, but alio in their Renown for Politer Studies, Bravery, Resolution, Stability of Virtue, and by consequence of their fixed; State of Happiness.
This has made epaminond.vs, and Timofeon, with some other Greekj, raise the Merit of their petty Battles, and narrow Acquifitiqns to a Balance, at least, with those greater, and more extensive of the most Succelsful Roman Conquerors, and to weigh down all the Spreading desolations of the Huns, Sandals, or Goths, whose Arms subdu’d awo/2i? and Africa.
those theresore, my Lord, are the Advantages the Englifj ought most to covet, whom Nature Seems to have forbidden Foreign clon quests, at the Sime time that she persuades Virtues Sufficient to establish and desend a happiness, that no Foreign Force can destroy, without our own Consent; and which nothing has So osten shaken, as those Domestic Feuds and Parties, Set on foot, and fomented by Men of little Designs, whose narrow Souls led them to nothing but the Consideration of, and Zeal for their own particular and private Gain, never reflecting how unsafe and how precarious that must be while the Public is in danger; for he that Sacrifices the public Safety to private Advantage, takes away the Certainty of the Possession of that very Advantage, by putting it in any one’s Power but the Public to be Master of it, (for the general Laws of a
Coun
()
Country are a Surer Foundation and firmer Security, than any distant Hope or promis’d Favour of a Foreign Invader) or by provoking the Public to take that unlawful Gain from him, for which he quitted the Common Security of his Legal posseffions.
The Ground of this has been a Mechanic, a trader’s, nay a usurei^s Vice, that has invaded Men of Public Stations, whose Hands ought to have been pure of all those Pollutions In Administration, which fprlng from a Thirst of Money, without any regard to Justice. Saluji, in his Advice to cd.far about the new Regulations of Rome, has these Words.
t
Sed multb maximum Bonum Patrice, Civibm, tibi, Ltberis, pojiremd hthnam Generi pepereris, fi Studimn Pvcmice aut fufiulerh, aut, quoad res feret, m'mue •rii; aliter neque privata Res, neque pubuca, neque j)omi, neque Militia regi potefi : nam ubi Cupido Divitiarum invafit, neque Disciplina, neque artes bona, neque Judidum ullum satis pallet, quin ani mm, magis, aut minim mature, poftremo tamen fuc
cumbit, Sic. ie“
“greatest Good you can do your “Country, this City, yourself, your Post“ “and Indeed all Mankind, is to take “away, or at least to lessen, as far as hu“ “Nature and the Neceflitles of Life will “permit, that eager Intenseness and Zeal for “Money, which now prevails; elfe there can “be no just Administration of Affairs, Pub“ “or Private, War or Peace; For where“ “this Lust of Riches invades, neither
« Difi
( J)
Discipline, wholesome Arts, nor any strength
of Judgement, are able to be so much on the “Guard, as entirely to prevent the Mind “from falling sooner or later under its Ty “ranny.
And as a Reason of this Advice, he urges in the Same discourse, that Avarice
'beljua fera, immanis, intoleranda ejl^ quo intendit, Oppida, Agros, Fana, atque Domos vajlat; di vina cum humanis permifcet; neque Exercitui, neque Moenia ohjiant, quo minus VI sud penetret, Famd. Pudicitid, Ltheris, Patrid, atque Parentibm cunbos Mortales fpoliat, ci. e.
“Avarice is a Beast, wild and full of in“ “Cruelty; where e’er it jour“ “it Spreads a vast Destruction round “about; it lays wast houses, Temples, Towns, “and Countries, impiousty and promifcuousty “mingling Things divine and humane. No
Walls have strength enough, nor Army “force enough to relist its Progress, while it “robs all Men of Fame, Modesty, Children, “Parents, Country, c.
This is no enthufiastic Fancy of Speculation, no Poetic, or Hyperbolical Slight, but the Observation of a Man of Business, and the real and common Effect of this Vice. We have daily Examples of the Truth, and some too fresh in our Memory to mention without Pain. We daily see Armies, Towns and Countries betray’d for Money. This is too obvious
to
i
\ 305)
to dwell on to your Lordship: To remove it therefore, as much as possible, and with it all its fatal Consequences; to plant in its room the Love of praise, (the Source of all the greatest and bravest Actions) the Love of our Country, and of one another, and So putting an End to our Divisions and Factions at Home, Secure a perpetual happiness to ourselves, and unspeakable Glory to the English Name, and in that to her Majesty, and to your Lordship, Is the Design of this proposal; more reasonable in Its Means, more extensive In Its Aim, and more reputable by consequence In its Establishment, than that propos’d to Cardinal Richelieu: The Sum of, and the Motives to which, “were only the Advantage it wou’d “be to Eloquence, in perfecting their Lan “guage, to render it capable of succeeding“ “Latin and Greek, dead now to any natio“ “Use; to rescue their Tongue from the “common Barbarity of the other Modern “Speeches, of which they suppos’d it the “most capable of persection. That France had “never wanted Brave Men, but only great “Writers, to recommend their Actions to “Posterity, as the Greeks and Romans had “done.
All which wou’d hold more true of the English, whose Language Is more Copious, more mascullne, and more Harmonious than the French, as Is evident from the Numbers and Versification of the Poets of both Nations, as might be prov’d were it our present Subject 5 and as our Language is more worthy
cul
(3o6)
cultivating, so are our Heroes by no means inferior, tho’ they have indeed, generally Speaking, more wanted Writers to recommend them to Posterity.
’tis a glorious Task referv’d for your lord ship to give us greater Heroes to celebrate, a more perfect Language, and more excellent Pens to celebrate them as we ought, and that by the Establishment of the Academy propos’d; which is secure from that after remifs nefs and Neglect, which generally follow very laudable Designs, after the first Heat of the Institution is over: As in the Royal-society, much fallen from its primitive Vigour, which proceeds from the want of a Fund to support Industry, and maintain Emulation. But here, my Lord, where there are Beneficiary Fellowships, Prizes for those that excel, and a perpetual Succestion of Tasks to employ them, there is no fear of Its languishing in a few Years. Besides, this deals in Things more obvious, as well as more useful to the Generality than the most part of our Physical Inquiries, which tracing the Qaufe through the Effects, are too ohscure to be Satisfactory, and too uncertain to be useful; and, indeed, amount to' little more, than an ingenious and curious arausement for Speculative Men, persectly retir’d from .Auction and the Business of lise: Whereas the greatest Parr, if not all of what I propose, is conversmt about our Actions, prevalent in our Passions, and directive of our Conduct in all the Stations of Life, and must rnake us useful as well as good.
From
(307)
From hence, and from what 1 have and shall offer, it will, my Lord, 1 hope appear, that what I propos’d to your Lordship, is demonstratively true, that is, an Academy of Sciences, first, more useful and extensive than that of France; and next, that it shall be on a Fund of 8 or loooo A per Annum, arising neither from a Tax on the People, nor a Donation out of the queen’s Pocket. Part of which 1 have already, the rest I now lay before your lord ship, without disguise, not fearing the projector’s Fate, when I confide it to your lord ship.
A
Tko' projebs please, proje&ors are undone.
For when your Lordship finds that I Seek ipore the public Good, than my own particular Advantage; and that I shall in Some Mea sure be necestary, or at least useful in the Execution of this Design, I have no manner of doubt, but I also shall find my Account in its success; which I only wish, that I may be able to Serve ray Country, if pofiibly more, than in this; tho’ I doubt not, but your lord ship will think this no despicable Service; when you have perus’d these Papers, which my past illness has oblig’d me to*write, I confess, in too great a Hurry for a Writing to be presented to Such a Judge as your lordship;; 1 chose rather to neglect that Accuracy of Style and dispofition, the Subject I wrote on, and the Noble person I wrote to requir’d, than
to
%
?
%
( 3o8 }
to let So necestary a Design be prejudic’d by my longer delay. I am.
My Lord.
Your Lordship's moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
s
C D.
1-1 II I lit_u_ljiuu_i_uiiajjiw — _ -- -- -- -- i — I
LETTER VIIL
My Lord,
I Will not detain your Lordship with an Account of the Italian Academies, where there are above Thirty * in Number, each Town of Note having one; or of that more noted, as well as more Modern of France, except what occurs in the Course and Order of this dis courfe, as far as this and that agree; only begging leave to transcribe a few Words out of
their
* The Della" Crulca of Florence; the humorifh, Lincei, and Fantaftici of Rome; the Intronati of Sienna; Otiofi o/bologna; Adormentati o/ge
noa, the Recovrati, and Orditi of Padua; Olympic! of Viacenza; Innominati of Parma; Nafcofti of Milan; Ardenti of Naples; Invaghiti of Mantua; Aflldati of Pavia: The offuscati, Difumpti,
Caliginofi, Adagiati, alsorditi, insensati, c
»•
(
their Charter or Patent, worthy a nobler Design“
“mm a represent e fme de plm glofieufes Mar“ “de la Felicite d'un etat, etvit que les Sciences, ** CT les Arts y fleuriffnt, 07” Ls Lettresy fuf ** sent en Honneur, aujf bein que les Arms, buif cf ueu “les jont unde Princtpaux Injirumene de la Virtue,
/
These are indeed Sentiments worthy a great Politician, and a Motive defervlng a patriot’s Zeal for the obtaining a Charter; for ’tis the Interest: of a just Statefeman to have the Public Virtue increas’d, as here fuppos’d; if their Design anfvver’d the Expression. But their whole Aim, jndeed. Is to polish the Language, improve Eloquence, and fupervlfe and adjust the Correctness of Style, all which is but a distant Help to Virtue, and may be turn’d to the Service of Vice; nor is It one of the most immediate Steps to the promoting useful Arts and Sciences, and is, in regard of the Public Service, the most inconsiderable Part of my Proposal.
There are but forty Members of the French Academy, and those provided fbr only by Places in the Government, or precarious pen llons from the Crown, which indeed Richelieu defign’d to remedy by a perpetual Fund, when Death prevented him. Besides, the Number Is too small to have the declfive pow’r of a Language over so large a Body of Learned Men, as such a Nation contains; which Objection is remov’d in this, by more than doubling the Number, and in that par
4- tlcular
(31°)
ticular leaving room for all other Men of • Learning to come In, as will be seen by pe rusing my Proposal 5 which Is,
To establish an Academy of sixty Honorary Fellowships, conlisting of Nobility,
Commons, and Univerfity men of the naost Interest, Judgement and Learning. And forty Beneficiary, C ten of which to be Dramatic Poets, and ten Historians; the rest Mathematicians, Lyric, Heroic and Satyric Poets, phllosoph ers, Physicians, Lawyer Musicians, and that these Members be all Natives of, England, for it wou’d be an Infamy too shameful,
O
(^) I mean hy this, those jsfoblemeny that have the moji Interest in the Voufe of Lovds^ as well as those cf the moji polite and solid Frxrts.
(^) By this ['mean the leading Men of the House of commohsy who being of the Academy won d fucf litate the ejlablifhing the Academy by Abl pf farua rnenfy and he its Defence for the Future. And hythe xjmvevfty men^ 1 meaiiy those Men of Learmng and Farts who have Benefces already and those that have ejrates or flaeesyjh as to be provided for without this Nayj 1 know not hut the leaving the Number of the ilonorary Fellows undetermin d would be hefty so leavwg room for all that may appear worthy of the iioyiour*
P) Vhe Reason of this Number of Dramatic so^ etsy is plain from my lafl Saper to your Lordjhipy from them proceeding so large a Share of the Fund; and as for the wfmiayisy your Lordfvp will soon see a con ^iwing Reason for it„
{ 3”)
full, to have English Language directed by any Foreigners, who, if they once get in, will leave no room for any one but their own Countrymen in a little Time. Against which Scandal the only Defence is the making it a fundamental Law, that none whatever on any Account or Consideration whatever be admitted a Fellow, without a Substantial Proof of their being born in England, or of Parents.
That under their Royal Protector there be a Chancellor of the first and most worthy of the Nobility,, their first, your Lordship, and who hereafter, is to be chose by the Academy. A Vice-chancellor, Secretary, Register, and library keeper, chose out of the Beneficiary Fellows, as being oblig’d to Duties, In which the Honorary are free.
• The (a) Vice chancelshr presides In the Ast
Semblles (ijnless when'we Chancellor thinks fit to be there) gathers the Opinions of the Fellows, giving his own last, keeps the Seals, and Seals all the Orders and Acts of the Academy.
The Secretary is to write all Letters domef tic and Foreign by the academy’s Order, all Dispatches, Orders, Certificates, to read the Statutes to the Member that is admitted, before the Vice-chancellor exhorts him to the
Observation of them, (i’) The
*> < ^
I — II ■ I,. ■, ■ I I W
C
(^) jie is also 'to see that the Laws ad Statutes of the Academy be put in Executiony and to have a cajl ^ ing vie on ai Kquality.
(fc) l^he Secretary also ought to draw from the Re'
'
( 312)
The Register writes down the Resolutions and Debates of the Day, keeps the Papers, or at least the Register of the Papers, r. of the Academy, C
Those three Officers chose by Plurality of Voices, or by balloting, out of the Beneficiary Fellows; and that on their Election, Addition be made to their Salaries, Too, per Annum to the Vice-chancellor, who is to be chose once a Year, and 50 I, per Annum apiece to the other two.
That the Methods of Debate, Decision, c, be establish’d by the Academy.
That the Academy have a public Seal, with Device and Motto, the queen’s Picture in a Minerva's Habit, with these Words, Armis tu tetur, moribus ornat, or what elfe may be agreed on by the Academy,
The most impartiffway that I can think of doing Justice to Merit, and to keep out worthless Intruders, is, either for your lordstiip to choose all the Beneficiary Fellows, or elfe that the Honorary being nam’d and compos’d of Such, as I have mention’d, get the Charter pass’d by Act of Parliament; and then choose the Beneficiary Fellows from such Candidates
as
gijler's Books the Tranfabiions, reduce them into Form, and, after the Approbation of the Academy, to pubujh them, if ordered, cr elfe to place his Manufctipt in the Dhrary.
C Receives all Papers sent to the Academy, peru/ef, and presents them, having firjl enter’d them in the re gifier.
( 3’3)
as Shall appear in the several Arts to he encou* rag’d by this Academy; but that then no Member can be admitted, without the Approbation of thirty Fellows; and that after the Number is complete, any new Fellow that is admitted on a Vacancy, must come in by the Vote of the Beneficiary, as well as Honorary Members.
That there be five Clergymen Beneficiary Fellows, that they be eminent for Mathematics or some of the politer Literature.
O That no Candidate shall stand for a Beneficiary, that has not done, or does not then produce before the Members of the Academy,, some valuable Book, or made Some Improvement in the Art or Science he pretends to.
(h) That no poetical Member be admitted for what he has already *written, except thnt
• will
%
N
d) Lhis is meant effebually to defend this Design from worthless Intruders, who often hy a voluble. s'onguoy arid plausible Assurance impose fhemfelves on Men of Quality for Men of great Partly who are, wholly ignorant m the Arts they pretend to. not
for want of Injlances I give none but to avoid the
Odmm.
(/;) tihe Reason of this isj because too many of the taking Plays, and Poems tooy have owa their Success to a Facliouj Parfy^ or evln to their defectsyfupported' hythe Arts of the Players, ^ in spite of Sense and Reason. But when no Plays are suffer d to be played that cannot pafs the Censure of Men of xlnder/tand ingy "tis more likely than novd. that Merit will take Vlaceri, or at leaf It will be a Satisfa^ion and Honour
P t
\

( 3m)
will stand the Test of a just Examination according to Art.
That the Library keeper be oblig’d constantly to attend the Library himself at certain Hours, and tb have a Deputy there at all Seasonable Hours. Thsh he take care of the Impressions of the academy’s Books, of which he is to make no Alteration when past the public Censure;; that he be Superintendent of the press over the Overleer of the press.
That there be an overseer of the press, a Printer by Education, and that it be his (dare to buy the fairest Letters of all Sorts to make the Impressions the more beautiful, and those not us’d after they are a little wore, but either new cast, or sold to Some Printer; that a Share of the Profits of all Books printed, be laid aside for the keeping them in Repair. That the Academy pay no Duties nor Customs for Pape either Foreign or English, which will be a Trifle to the Revenue, and will enable them to print on the best Paper cheaper than others on the worst, buying it in at the best hand from the Maker; and that Severe Penalties be laid on those that dispoie or Sell the Academy Paper to others, or under the Name of the Academy import and buy up Paper for any but the
Academy: This will in Some measure Secure the
Academy
to the Poet, if the Representation he less successful with the People (as it sometimes happen’d in hxhqns itself) to remember, that •what he has wrote has received the Public Mark of Applause from the JVIP Jtidideus.
(30)
Academy Copies from being pirated on, that is, printed by others. '
That there be three or four travelling Fel
^
lows at .300 L per Ann. each, to examine the Vatican, the French king’s Library, the emperor’s recover’d at Buda, the Duke of co«r land, c. and to transcribe any valuable manuscript, re<ford, inscription, c. and that these Fellows be countenanc’d, and recommended by the ambafsadors of England in the Several Courts of their Refiderice; and that the emperor’s, or any other Confederate Ambaltador do it at Rome, where we have none. That the twounlverfitles be exhorted to depute some of their Members, with a just Allowance, for the Same End, into the Several Parts of the World, which they might easily afford out of those vast Revenues that belong to their unlverfi tles.
That all the Fellows in general be oblig’d to Submit their Works to the censure of the Academy; who. In their Examination, shall allow the Member, whose Works they are considering, the Liberty of answering Objections from the Rules of Art, which are to be the
P z Standard
%
(there is the defeb of the French Academy, as is plain from their Difficulty of eenfuring the cii. And 'tis there expressed, that they were to censure mne hut vohat were fuhmitted to them hythe Authors; and in, the Cid they were afraid to go againji the Vogue, whiclj by their Institution they ought to oppose, if wrong, at generally it is.
t
f
( 316)
Standard of each Art; but if in the Meaning of those Rules they differ, the Particular must give way to the General; none theresore of these censures to be made without 30 or 40 Members present, and most of them Beneficiary.
That every Sunday, and public holy day, all the Beneficiary Members that are in Town, and as many of the Honorary, as please, go to Church together in their (a) Robes, and thence to Dinner In their Public Hall, each paying his Proportion to the Expense, (hereafter to be specify’d) or that at certain Terms or seasons of the Year they be in Commons.
That the Poetical Members of the Academy be oblig’d to publish once a Year, at least, a greater or stnalier Volume of Hymns, Anthems, c. in the praise of God, and that by noble Transtations of the Poetic Parts of the Bible, as Psalms, Prophets, c. which lose half their Force from their enervate Transtations; for certainly whatever the Spirit of God dictated in Verse, can never be So justly express’d in prose : If the Divine wisdom thought Numbers
and Harmony in the Original necestary to the End he propos’d, it is certainly more So in the Transtation, where there is a need of all the Force of a Poetic Genius, to keep within View of the Original.
That
— — — — — — I m I 104
4
(a) Those to he hereafter adjufed by the Academy, both as to Colour and Form.
()
That there be Satyrs once a Week, or Fortnight, on the prevailing Follies and Vices of the Town : As well as Songs, Odes, and Panegyrical Verses on those that have ferv’d their Country, freely, bravely, and Some of them to be Sung before the Orations, Some after. The Profits of these Books made up of theseweekly Products, to be put into the Bank, for Prizes, or for the repairing the Letter.
That there be a Book wrote on the Excellence t\\q engufh (ia) Language, Laws, Constitution, Country, Learning, in all the chief European toqqxies, and that, this Book be printed in Italy and France, in those two Languages, because they permit no Books printed in what they call an Heretical Country, to be read, according to the Direction of the Council ol Trent, c. Which will Spread the Glory of the English Name, Wit, Learning, Language and Happiness farther, than the Roman Arms spread theirs.
That there be Some inferior wtiter maintain’d by the Academy, to write the Penny books, that Spread among the Vulgar : In which by Stories, adapted to their Capacity, and reasons proportion’d to their Understand • Virtue, the Love of their Country, and attempting great Actions, be recommended.
That the Admistion oath oblige the Memo

bers to endeavour by their Pens, c. to take away all Factious Names, and live amicably
P 3 together,
(a) That is, in comparison ‘with those of the moji * known of Europe.
J
( 3i8)
together, whatever their Party Principles may be. I am,
, Lord.
, Your Lordship's mojl humble,
and obedient Servant,
CD
LETTER IX
My Lord,
I Now come to the Duties of the Members, and propose that the first general/work of the Academy be the forming an exact engujh, Grammar, and Dictionary, for the Restraining the licentiousnefs of Writing, fixing a Standard of our Language, fettling the Orthography, Syntax, Etymology, qpc. according to our best Authors, old and modern; to which End, the Damjh, Dutch, German, French, and other Languages be examin’d for our Fundamentals. The exprefifive double Letters of the old Saxons to be confider’d, whether worth Reviving, c. by this to arrive not only at a true Etymology, but also to know how far our Tongue will bear an Improvement, without departing too far from its Foundation. ■ To which may be added, a History of the Several Alteration it has undergone from its first Original. That in conipofing this Dictionary, the
several
V
V
( 319)
* Several Fellows contribute the particular Terms of their Several Arts, in all their Extent of Propriety, Etymology, * chut to make this Dictionary the more complete, all the other learned Men of the Nation to be invited to contribute their Pains to the compiling it, with this Assurance, that what they contribute shall be publicly acknowledg’d. And the better to obtain this, there shall be from time to time .printed Notice given of what the Academy go upon; among which, if any difficult case arise, that in particular to be recommended to the Learned, whose Papers are to be transmitted to the Secretary or Register of the Academy, who is to register them and their Author, to take a Receipt of each Member to whom he, according to the academy’s Order, delivers them outj for if out of Design he Smother any of them, he must lose his Place. That every Gentleman, that Sends any Paper, Set down his reasons for his Opinion in Etymology, Orthography, Syntax, stpc.
That either an entire Poetic Dictionary, or the Poetic Part of the Grand Dictionary be compil’d by the pccts.
P 4 That
/
* the Phyjldttn the "Terms of his Arty the
philosophers of theirs the Lawyer of lawy the Mathe^ matkian of Mathematicksy the Chaplain of Divinity the chief Musician of Music &€• and so down to the Husbandmany so^ colleb a complete Body of our Longue in all its Extent and Variety(
()
That the Proposals, and Method of the French Academy, in composing their Dictionary be conii(fer’d, follow’d, or rejected, according to the Judgement of the Fellows.
That the Grammar, and Dictionary being done, they proceed to a prosodia and rhe torick. In the Rhetoric, besides the Tropes and Figures, the Propriety of Style, and the true Beauties of Eloquence in the English Tongue, with an Inquiry which is moll just and natural, Ours or the Ancients, That here the Characteristic of the Sublime, the mean and the low Styles be fix’d; and in this they must divide the Language into its proper di stindfions, answering in Propriety to those three Styles; they having by lohie Authors of Note been all promifcuousty confounded together. (a) _,.
To the forming The Prolodia, the Poets must contribute their Discoveries, and they must confider Elegancies, and Uses of Words in a poetical sense; examine the Positions of
Words J
(4) hi Rhetoric they should give us a. good vev fon of Aristotle, Quintilian, and any other Authors ancient or modern., to the Improvement of Eloqueiice; for^iis certain that there is nothing more prevalent in our arionsy than the pafjjons; and ' a eow^r to work them into the Interest of Virtuej is a very ferual Way of prornotino; it. For where one Man pursues the Dibfates of Right Reason a Million fou low it corrupted by the pyevauiiig Fafjiony and Ven Million follow the Fajnonj without confultlng Rea -- jfon at alu
( 321)
♦
Words, and their transposstions, according to the use of the best of our Authors, and to confider how far they are beautisul, that is, liow far they contribute to Variety and Harmony. That here the whole Art of Poetry. be discuss’d, and a true Standard of criticism in the Several kinds of Poetry fixed, which must be drawn from the Design of the Art,, the Nature and reason of the Thing,., the Genius of the People, that is, from Aristotle,,, and the Eftay on Poetry; in which, Some are Such Libertines, that they think all regular Principles of Art an Imposition not to be born; yet, while they refuse in'poetry the.' Rules of that jdrt as the ct'est of their Performance, they will allow no Man a Master, r in any other, that follows not the Rules of his Art, though those of Poetry are not less founded in Nature and reason, and indeed are the only Distinction betwixt, an Artist and a r Pretender. This has open’d the Door to all •; the abominable Scribblers that have So often • won a Reputation from the Ignorance of the Town; nay, who have .past for au t’ndrs of the first Rank, though their Writings, as Ben Johnson in his Discoveries has it, “a Man. “wou’d not wrap up any wholesome Drug ‘‘ in, ” For if Poetry have no certain.; Standard qf Excellence, no fixed Rules to go. by, then it must be an arbitrary Licence, of Saying and writing what extravagant. Thing, Soever one' pleases; and that mess of madness a that is best cook’d up by the Players, andi goes best down with the Mob, is the best.
P. 5 Poetry 5
( 322).
Poetry; a Notion So very whimsical, that it was never entertain’d in any City in the universe but this, which levels all Men, makes R — and Durfey as good Dramatic Poets as Otway and Wycherley. Nor was there ever a plainer Evidence of this than in T— — - — — having not one single (^alification of a just: Play, run away with the Opinions, not only of the common Sort, but ev’n with Some Men of Sense, either through Inadvertence, or Ignorance of the Art: For if they had ever read and understood anything of the Matter, they wou’d never have born an Act of it.
To take away this false and uncertain applause, that has discourag’d, and always must deter Men of Sense and Judgement from meddling with the Stage, is one of the Aims of this Academy, and particularly of this prosodia, and Art of Poetry. For since there can be no doubt but that the Drama is absolutely the most useful, and, I think, the most noble Province of Poetry, it will, by this means appearing in its true Grandeur, be judg’d So by all Men. For this reason it will be necessary, before the Choice of the Dramatic Members, that there be a Standard fix’d, as a Test of their Performances, and that drawn from Arijlotle's Rhetoric, Poeticfcs, c. in which i’m Sure Daciefs Notes ought to be consulted', as being the most Gentlemanlike criticism of that Nation, and really deduc’d from Nature, and the Author he explains.
That
( 3*3)
That the Fellows by degrees translate, each in his Way, all valuable Books out of other Languages, most of our present Transtations being abominably done by the Hackney Authors, employ’d by booksellers for trifling Considerations. I am.
My Lord.
Your Lordship's moji humble
at: d obedient servakt.
C D.
LETTER X
My Lord,
another bufiness of the Academy is to establish public Schools for all useful Arts and Sciences in the English Tongue.
I. For History, Domestic and Foreign. That at least six of the Historical Fellows, by theirturns, be employ’d, in Searching, abridging and transcribing Records of the Tower, Journals of Parliament, Inscriptions, Medals, manuscripts of the Universities, Cottonean Library, &>€. collecting from Historians of all Nations that relate to our hisrory, Ib to frame a nobler System of it, than any we now have. That in their Abridgments, f. they refer in all Particulars to the Records, Journals, Inscriptions, s^c. in Ib plain a manner, that
P 6 Ret

\
( 324)
Recourse may be easily had to the Originals. Thus furnishing us with a more useful Study f the History of our Country, than is to be got purely out of the Monkish Writers, Men out of the way of bufiness, and unacquainted with. ■ ®ur Laws and Constitution, to which this me.* thod will easily lead our Student.
That any Honorary Pdember, that pleases,. may join in these Inquiries. That while the Six are busted in the Search, the other Soul? be reading History in the Schools, to Such as come to hear them, and So each in Bis Turn. And stnce the Knowledge of our Acts of Parliament, Saxon Laws, and Common-law: are a Part of the useful History of this Nation, that the most compendious Method be found out for teaching them, at least in the Abridgment. By these Means this School of History will be a nursery for young Gentle -- men, that are to Serve their Prince and Country. *
Next for Foreign History, that that of our Neighbouring Countries be first studied, as it goes along with our own, as to Negotiations, Treaties, c. and for them which we find not in Libmtz, c. that their Records, £>’f. be search’d for, and compar’d with ours for the greater Certainty; which in a few Years will
furnish us with a complete course of History,
both Foreign and Domestic.
That in reading English and Foreign History, the Student be put in Mind of the brave Actions that he hears, ^ and exhorted to imitate them; that he be remeixiber’d of the Same
and.
0
( 325)
and' Reputation that is due to thern, and the Infamy of a stothful, unactive Life; and that to give Nobility its Ancient Lustre, he must show those public Virtues in the Service of his Country, which first distinguish’d Man from Man in the Esteem of ev’n the wise themselves.
That there be Degrees taken in History, and public Examshations; and Rewards for the greatest Proficientsinit.
That the Mathematical fellowsihave public Lectures of all useful Parts of the mathema tlcks in the Enftifo Language, as Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry, and the new Improvements of it, Astronomy, Mechanics, Fortification, Navigation, sac. and free disterta tions and Experiments, that may tend to promote the Knowledge of Nature, and be Serviceable to Mankind.
That the Physicians be oblig’d to have a public Lecture of Anatomy, Plants, / Herbs, er.. and communicate the History of their Practice. See Bcrclhiuf, c.
That the Lawyer being chosen more for his parts than Practice have either a Lecture of the English Laws, or contribute his Part of the Law towards the Historical Lecture before mention’cl.
That there be public Lectures of Music and Painting,, the Rules of which Part of the Academy I have by me drawn from the most celebrated of Europe, and much improv’d.
That there be an Englife Lecture, that is:, an. Emlijh Grammatical, Poetical and
Rbe
%
( 32(5)
Rhetorical Lecture, c. which will form the poetick’s and Rhetoric above requir’d; and will in Time Spread a juster Notion of, and wear out that false Judgement that has too long reign’d in England, to the Scandal of our Name; and So make Way for Merit only to be encourag’d, by Suffering it no longer to be judg’d by Ignorance and Fools.
Thus, my Lord, I have in Some measure already shown the admirable use of this Academy, at least for the Advancement of Arts and Sciences. But what remains, I think is yet of a higher Nature, as promoting more immediately, and more diffufively the Moral and Political Virtues of the Nation, now too much decay’d; nay, I may venture to say, almost quite extinguish’d, and to be despair’d of, had not Providence preserv’d your Lordship to revive, restore, nay and to exalt it to a nobler Height than ever. I am,
"My Lord,.
Your Lordship's moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
CD
%
L E
. 4
( 3*7)
«
LETTER XI
4
, ''
My Lord,
IT must be confess’d that Religion is not only an admirable, but the best Rule and Motive of our Actions; yet through the Frailty of our Nature, the Rewards and Punishments .Religion promises, and threatens, being not present, but at Some Distance, the Number that is influenc’d by them to Action Is extremely Small; for what by forgetfulness cff what we do not see; the weakness of humane Nature, too much immers’d in immediate Affairs, and the false Hopes of a Satisfactory Repentance at last. Men find not So strong a Band and Tic to Virtue and Actions beneficial to the Public, as they wou’d if there were some present Rewards and Punishments to excite them, either by menacing Some immediate Detriment, or promising as Sudden an Advantage to our Reputation, or predominant Passions.
But Punishment, tho’ present, has not sh lively and forcible an Effect on Mankind, as Reward. For first, the meanest and most inferior Sort of People are only affected by them, as the Execution of all Penal Laws sufficiently demonstrates, proving evsh there almost wholly inefficacious. Next, Penal Laws can never be equally and impartially administer’d; for the Executors of them are Men
of
( 328)
of little sense, and by consequence of n great Honesty, and of a low precarious Fortune, without the Benefit of Education or Knowledge to season them from Knaves; such as Beadles, insorniers, Hackney Constables, or at most Justices of the Peace, who too often are Men that thrust themselves into the Commistion for a Livelihood, or Such, as are put in, without regard to their Abilities, or Honesty, merely to serve a Turn. But if by chance a Justice of Peace be a Man truly qualified for, and exact in the Execution of his, Office, he will have nothing to do; for the Constables and Beadles will only go to those Justices, who will connive at their Rogueries, and let them come in for a Share of the Profit. Farther, Penal Laws are the Market of Informers only. Fellows of the most profligate Principles, Set to work purely by the Extremity of a necessitous Fortune, and (their Oaths being their. Livelihood) who Swear, for,, or against, as the Criminal has, or has not Money to bribe them, without regard to Right or wronfl or the Dictates of Law or consci ence.
But, my Lord, to enter into the Detail of this Matter, wou’d be to entertain your lord ship with what Is not So agreeable as true. I will therefore turn tp Rewards, which Set the brisker Spirits to work, that are not touch’d with Punishments (which at most only deter from Vice, but promote no Virtue) and Such Rewards, as affect, ' our Passions;; gratify our Pride, have an uncommon Force in the pjursuit of Actions beneficial to the Public
for
( 329)
for Men love to strive for those Rewards that make them immediately conspicuous among their Friends and Acquaintance, and give them a Place and Regard abhve those, whom either Birth or Fortune may have made their Superiors.
For this reason, (to Say nothing of the Rewards and Triumphs of the (a) Romans) on extraordinary Emergencies, Several Princes, to promote the public Bravery, have (in Imitation of William Duke of Gaienne, and Count of Auvergne, who in 898 instituted the first against the Normans) establish’d Orders of Knighthood, by present Honours to excite their Subjects to extraordinary Actions : Thus this Design Sets up public Rewards, and pub lick Orations to rouse us up to a vigorous Defence of ourselves, against the common Enemy; and to nobler Acts and Ambition, than usually we have known of late.
That Reformation of our Mtnners which the false Zealots have for Some Years made Such a preposterous Pother about in the Streets and Brothels, when they neglected Morality in their Pulpits, is not to be obtain’d but by Spreading the Excellence of the Moral Virtues, and raising the Esteem of them in the Minds of Men, busy’d now about Things of a more grovelling and Servile Nature; as how to in crease their own Wealth, not the public Glary

h I II I m ■ ■ ■■ — I(
(
- Which when the Romans Jest off as they did in the Reign Theodofiiis, they sunk in their v'nauey and every Day decay^^d till they came entirely to Rmn..
9
( 33°)
ry and Security, for they perceive hoj: ^ that the first must fall to the Ground, if she latter be not supported. For the effecting which I presume she following Rules will'be of Sufficient Force.
That there be at least one Moral Lecture or Oration every Week, made by the benefic’d Fellows, each In his Turn; and one once a Month by Such Honorary Fellow as Shall think fit to make It. That the Aim of these Moral Lectures, and their chief Topics, Shall be to recommend the Moral and Political Virtues; to show their Excellence and Necessity to the Sublistence, well-being and Happiness of Humane Society. To recommend ' the Ties of Nature in the Alliances of Blood, exposing the Folly of the Vices destructive of Morality, and to show them punish’d in Examples drawn from History Sacred and profane. these, and all other Arguments, directed to instil a Love of Glory from the Service of our Country, a Thirst of Fame by doing Actions Serviceable to our Prince.
The better to promote this, great part of ev’ry other Oration shall be Spent in the praise of Some particular engujhman, that has formerly, or shall do now any public brave Action, or any general Good, either by the Sword (and that chiessy at Sea) or by his Wit, Ingenuity, Liberality, &‘c. as the finding out, promoting, or improving any profitable Trade to the Nation; public Donations to Arts; public Buildings, as Ships, cor to the Academy in particular. That besides this public praise,
their
( 331)
their Names to be enroll’d among the Heroes and Patriots of their Country, and that every one, or most of the Poets be oblig’d to write on him, and a Prize given to the best Performer, which being read after the Oration, his Name shall be enroll’d in the midst of Triumphal Songs and Music.
If any private Seaman does any extraordinary Action, (besides the queen’s Reward, which Is usual) he shall sit In an eminent Place in the Oratory, and hear his Act prais’d, and receive Some Badge of Favour of the Academy to wear, by which others wou’d be encourag’d to do the like, and he to attempt more. If more than one be concern’d in the Action, that they sit all together in the same Manner. But if done by an Officer or Man of higher Post, then to sit in a more eminent Place, with the Members of the Academy on each Side of him or them, presenting each with a Laurel of Silver or Gold; with various other Ceremonies too long here to particularise. Sir Walter Raleigh, no Speculative Politician, ad vlses these public Rewards, Triumphs, as prevailing Motives to public Actions; and the Romans practically experienc’d the good Effect of them. For tho’ Pride and Vanity be the cause here, yet the Public wou’d receive the same Advantage from them, as if they sprung from a Modern, more refin’d Notion. For as Salujl observes in his discourse to Ccefar, of modelling the commonwealth, glo rid Indujlria alitur; ubi earn dembferh, ipsa per fe Virtm amara, atque afpera ejl. “Industry is
“nou(
()
** nourish’d by Glory, which if you take away. Virtue remains too forbidding, and uncouth.” For indeed, however gay and agreeable Virtue may Seem to the Sublimer Part of Men, her Trappings and Appearance only touch the many.
At the end of ev’ry Oration, the Moral of the Plays to be acted the following Week, or of those acted the Week besore, shall be explain’d and enforc’d, that is, the use that may justly be made of the Characters and Incidents, cof both the Tragedies and the Comedies; the Doctrines that may be drawn from them to the End propos’d, by Seeing the Inconveniences of Vice, the ridiculousness of Folly, as there drawn from the Practice of the World; and represented truly, that true Conclusions might be deduc’d from it. And on the other Side must be urg’d the Glory and Advantages of Virtue,
That if any Man of Parts, tho’ not of the Academy, desire to Speak or have Spoke, any Moral (Jration, the Academy must first license it: In which regard must be had to these Particulars, that it contain nothing offensive to Religion and good Manners: 2nothing derogatory to the Academy,, or the Cause they promote by these Orations; That it be
not tedious nor clull: And lastly. That it be, rather Spoke by one of the Actors, than the Author; that So first they may be Sure to have what they licens’d Spoke; and next, that no damage be done to the discourse, by an ill and. ungrateful Delivery,; that the Player "that
Speaks
( 333)
Speaks it, have a Guinea Reward, being oblig’d to get it So far by Heart, as to be able to deliver it volubly, with variety of Voice and Gesture, Nor are any of the Members to speak their own Orations, if they are not Sure of a graceful Action and Utterance, for the Honour of the Society, for that wou’d make them ridiculous, and what is thought ridiculous, Can ne’er have Authority.
That the Moral and Encomiastick Orations be printed by the Academy, and that the greatest part of the Profit arising from thence, be put Into the Bank for Prizes; and the Impression to be Monthly, in a Small, but fair Character, that they may make a cheap Pocket Book.
That they be dedicated to Some Man of Merit among the Nobility, dignify’d Clergy, c.
That whatever Poet, Moral, Historical, phl losophical, Mathematical, c. Writer of the Academy is prov’d guilty of Flattery In any Dedication; or out of a mercenary Hope dedicates to a Man unworthy, that is, who has never done any Service to his Country; to Learning, opc. or who is notorious for Avarice, Injustice to his Creditors, or others, for raking, shall forfeit for the first Offence
half his year’s Salary, and the whole Profits of that Piece to be all put into the Bank for Prizes; to be stigmatiz’d for a Flatterer and Robber, in taking away the Reward of good Men, by praising one that is ill : But if he repeat this Offence, to be expel’d the Academy; none of whose Fellows are to be guilty of Avarice, being dedicated to the
pub(
()
public Service, and handsomely maintain’d trom Want by the public Authority. I am,
My Lord,
Your Lordship's moji humble,
•V
and obedient Servant,
CD
____ __________________________
LETTER XII
My Lord,
WE now come to the Poetic Fellows In a
more particular Manner, as to their Regulation and Duties.
The Lyric Poets, and those who write the lesser Poetry, are, at least, ev’ry Week, or Fortnight, to produce either Some Hymn In the Praise of God, his wonderful Works, from the Psalms, c. (and fet to new Tunes to be sung in the Chapel) on the Sufferings of Martyrs for Religion, or for their Country; with Satyrs on Vice and Folly; Praise or Virtue, and noble Deeds, In Odes, Copies of Verses, larger Poems, q^c. the Subjects generally English; and that when they swell to a Volume, they be printed, one half of the Profits arising thence to be divided among the Authors, and the other to be put into the Bank of Prizes.
'Next
#
0
( 335)
Next for the Dramatic Poets — No Play to be acted whose Author is known before; because Party and Interest: else may give a Run to a bad Play, or stifle a good one. They are to be divided into Tragic and Comic, neither of which to be admitted, as Fellows, till two Plays of theirs have been acted with the Approbation of the Academy, and the applause of the Town; for though the latter is very fallacious, yet are they not incompatible. Nay, I am very well assur’d, that if a Play be wrote according to the Rules, perfectly understood, and with a Genius, it cannot fail of pleasing both the good and bad Judges. -- — But to proceed: — No Tragic, nor Comic Poet, to have a Play acted, nor to be admitted, till past 2.8 Years old at least, (none In Athens being admitted till past thirty) for the Performances of the Drama require a fixed and Settled Judgthent, or a Knowledge of Mankind, which few have before that time, or are capable of producing anything worthy the Dignity of the Stage, or of lasting Merit.
That after Admission ev’ry Dramatic Poet be oblig’d to write a Play, at least, once in two Years, till Superannuated; for this is not defign’d to be a Hive of Drones.
That the Dramatic Poets, both before and after Admission, have the 3d and the 6th Day ftee, without any Charges, half the Profits of the 9th, and the 8th Part of the Profits above the Charges every time ’tis acted for pver, or rather during their Lives, after which the Academy to have the whole.
That
I
i
( 33^)
That IS, after the Beneficiary Fellowships are full, any young Man appear above 28, worthy Encouragement, and bring a Play which the Academy approves, and promises a Great Man hereafter, that on his Second he be admitted as a Fellow extraordinary; and besides his 3d and th Days, c. if necessary, that he be allow’d 2, 0 L /2frweek, till there be a Vacancy to receive him.
That the Burden of the Poetic Part of the Dictionary lie not So much on the Dramatic, as the other Poets, who must be Scholars, and draw their Opinions from the Prafbce of our best Poets, reason, and the Imitation of the Ancients.
As for the materiddramatica, I dare not tres pass on your lordship’s Patience to transcribe it, having So many things to mention which cannot be omitted.
That the Dramatic Poets shall not take any Foreign Story to write on, that the Virtue of the English Nation lose not the Glory of the Englifo Wit, and Poetry to celebrate it. The Saxon Story being obscure enough to give the Poet as much room for Invention, as the fabulous Part of the Gretf History did those Poets, (and that with a greater Probability) to whose Invention we owe the receiv’d Examples of all Heroic Fortitude and wisdom; as Hercules, ACHILLES,
Ulyjps, The feus, Pirithou^, Jason, Alcejhs, Iphigema, c. By this means the Greef Poets made their own Country the Spring and Source of Virtue and wisdom, never vouchsafing a Foreign Hero in their Plays; whereas we find Heroes for ours in ev’ry Country but our own..
( 337)
To improve this, Encouragement must he given to Such as Shall improve the s«xon Story in little Histories, or Novels, building fine, tho’ fictitious Incidents on certain Grounds, which wou’d be a storehouse of Plots, and a great Help to the poet’s Invention. The Greekj justly believ’d that Domestic Examples were more likely to affect than Foreign, where Clime,. Customs, Manners, Religion, (^<-. might alter and confound the Lesson it shou’d teach. Tho’ now and then a shining Character of Greelior Roman Virtue may be wrote on; andoru’^ys Orphan, znd Venice Preserved, be play’d with Some Alterations. The most regular of Shakefpeads are excepted out of this Rule. O But the Comic Poet must never, on any Pretence whatever, lay his Scene out of England, lest the Follies dnd Vices represented may not Seem to relate to us. Besides, most, if not all our Dramatic Pbets, that have laid their Scenes in Foreign Countries, have been guilty of monstrous absurdities, and fin’d against the Manners to a great degree; to avoid which, none on a Foreign Story shall be admitted in Comedy, and, as I have Said, extremely few in Tragedy. Besides,, this Means the Dramatic Poet may have an Opportunity of Complementing some present Families, either as his private Obligations, or their public Merits demand.
As to what Characters shall be allow’d,, the. Academy on their Meeting be the Judge;
L who,
........ * ..... ' ■.■■■■
a') Or rathery that there he a Reward for any plays of Shakefpear'i reduscl to the Rules of the Drama In the Plot where he generally fails.
( 33 8 )i
who, after a fair discuffion, may determine.. A Committee of whom to be ludge of what is truly Immora!, Profane and ubscene, nor must Suiter anything of that Nature to pass, on any Account whatever; but then they are not to consuk the Fantastic Tail of Some particular Enthufiasts, but right reason.
■ ■ That no Poetic Member have under rco7. per Annum. That no Dramatic Fellowstiip be under ber anyiv.m, nor the chies above
900/. pe)' Anrnm Salary, and that to be the Laureate, who is to be chose once a Year; and after a Sermon and Prayers in the Church, to be crown’d with a golden laurel in the public Hall, with all the Pomp of the Academy in verses, Music, sa c.
That the Englih Lecture be taken by Turns, and that the Lecturer have 50/. per dunu’n added to his Salary during the Time of his i.ecturing.
Thus far I have entertain’d your Lordship with the Order and Rules of the Fellows of the Academy itself; I now proceed to the Regulations of the Dependants on the Academy; who are to be the Medium, not only of raising great part of the Fund, burr also of gaining it no Small Popularity and Esteem In the World, which will tortify its Interest, and show how much a perverted Thing may be improv’d to the Service and Glory of our Country and Religion I am,
Mv Lord.,
A
Your lord/hip's moji humble,
and obedient Servant,
C D.
’( 339)
V '
\
The remaining Part of this proposal relates wholly to the Reformation of the Stage, and I being now on making Several Alterations in it, defer Sending it till another Opportunity. But if you are Impatient for it, your Friend Mr. Worthy has a Copy, which he will show you on your Pessre. I
am
Your obliged Friend,
and hu nhie Servant,
s
*
Dickson.
• •
'V
L
>
\
k
♦
. ^ % V - *
® ' ''.
4
0.2
( 34®)
Before we cou’d proceed to make our Ke^ flections on these Letters,, there arriv’d' half a dozen of the Baron and Chevalieds Friends from London, whither they ohig’d them to go with they that Night; which put an end to our Inquiry into the Mails for that Meeting. What we farther discover’d on our next coming together, the Public may expect In another Volume, from its
Humble Servant,
■ A
Ro GER DE Whimsy, Kt. and Bar..
FINIS.
V
aiv fl jhff \\ m v|sah 1
^aa^^^ba^l V ^ym asi^l. F
0
*>
.vi '•»
%
■ ’ OATH
#"
CONTENTS
I
BOOK I.
F
■* HE introaublon. ^
LETTER I. That religioh in the World it only Humour. j
LETTER II A Declaration of Lave. i 7 LETTER III Foolish Inquietudes, or the false Judgement which is passed on other Mens Happiness. al
LETTER IV That our Reformation ofi Manners is a mere hypocritical Cant, and fianteftiical Chimaera. 20
Ije T T E R V The Gamejiers Defience: Proving
that Gaming is as honejl and innocent a Profief jton, as any ofi thofie firom which Aldermen aritfie.
39
LETTER VI The Advantages and Comforts of Popery, if 5
Letter VII a setting Match between
Sin, Death and the Devil. A Vijion. 49
LETTER VIII The Vjhn ofi Wealth and Poverty, or the false Appearances of Things. < 7
LETTER IX ^8
L E T
The CONTENTS.
LET E .r X refieftions on a Poem, called
The Imitation of nereus’i Prophecy. pag.ds
^ BOOK II
LET R I. 74 ^
LETTER II Great Undertakings fit to. be
laid before Great Men, ' ifi
LETTER III fthe Time of War no irn proper Tune for Undertakings produbive of a puhhcfspwit. *79
LETTER IV ■ More Arguments to the same
Purpose, Sic. 84
LETTER. V Too much Caution in Itjiemng to Propojals of new Designs defirubive of Knowledge and Virtue. 88
LETTER VI Arguments for Glory, and
the Love of Praise, againji a false Humility.
LETTER VII Against Avarice. <>8
LETTER VIII burr Hopes from, his Lordship, who by this Design may cure those Evils. 105 LETTER IX Of the Degeneracy of the Tape of our Great Men in their Pleasures. 109 LET E R X Degeneracy produces a certain, though' not always a speedy Ruin to a State. 114. LET E R XI Address to my Lord to remedy all these Evils, hy efiablijhing this Defiqn. 119
LETTER XII One Man of Virtue and
Resolution can raise a Nation from Contempt to Glory, 12.1
BOOK III
LETTER I. A Learned Controversy between
Adam
The CONTENTS.
Adam Pumplcin a Gardener, and Alexander Gerund a Coimtry Schoohnajier. P: me 130 LETTER II ■ An Answer to the foregoing.
LETTER III Some Comfort Cuckold.
139
LETTER IV of Dancing. 145
L E TT E R V Advice to a young Gentleman, who was s^oint^ to turn Author. 14<j
Th e lover’s Sighs: or the Let F, R S of the most Beautiful Stremunia to Alphonfo' the Wife, King of Cajiile, Aragon, and Earl of Provence, ic. in Six Letters. 153) ti,
1^4, 170, 173, 176 LETTER XII a<e^alnji: Witches. 179 LETTER XIII The Chinese Fortune teller. 185.
LETTER XIV On ’matrimony and Love. LETTER XV Of Gentility, c. 196
LET E R XVI Of Benefit and Gratitude.
^ O ^
B O O K IV
LETTER!.
LETTER II ao8'
LETTER III arp
LETTER IV aiz
LETTER V Of Liberty. 219
LETTER VI "Man differs more from "Man,
than 'Man from Becji.
LETTER AUI. For Retirement. 2, 28
LETTER VIII Of Pride, Modefiy, Vani '
ty C ^
le’tter'ix. On Tragedy. 241
L E r
7
#
V.
%
The contents:
LETTER X On the Sickness and Re
• }
covery of the Dutchels Conlort of neu ca/he.
^ ’ Page 24.8
LETTER XL 257
r LETTER XII A Dramatic Poet's Slavery.
LETTER XIIL III
'LETTER XIV On the Complete Art of
Poetry. i/fp
L E T T E R XV On little Sawny the Poet.
270
LET T E R XVI The Labour in vain, or
Laws about Marriage. 274.
BOOK V
L E T. T E R I. Of Muftcf, which preferable,
ours, or that ef the Ancients. 285
LETTER II The Sin again/i the Hoy Ghofit. 2^0
LETTER III 294
LETTER IV - Merit of no Consideration with our Great Ivien. 2, 97
LETTER V ^ 299
LETTER VI 500
A Proposal for ejiahlijhing an Academy Royal for ' Sciences, in Six Letters. 501, 30s, 318, 323,
334-
»
/
F I N I S.
» »
A -
/
. ^
*
#
4
«
A
9
f
* V
. \ Ov^
. -- ^ • - ■ -. .: .■. ■■ '^ ^ a
• ” s - • ' '■-; : ' ^
%
NOD ^0 1 SP fd.cf P /yfff
■; 't », TN'
■. ■
• »• •■. •
«
• -1
#
✓*
«
« •
%
/
% • • • N
-' * jnsshil^b
¥a^^bab^b^^^^bbbobb^: /^hhm^^^^m^^phktv^^hi^^^h^bb'^^^^bsbb
. V ~iu^^bjbak^l!^^^^b^k(kb^kkspi nb c r -- " -- '. h|q^i^^ :; ^^^^b|ft^^^ha^h^nh|hp
‘ ct •^' v, ■*■ ^^baiai^bbsf.f m^^^^b^^^bbb^^^^^bj^b^bak^^^^babbbb^bb^a^bm
^^^e^^hmh^^lrj^n?'} / .'■ .^btryisbbbw fell ^
'H ^ fsbbw' C
m / it n '■m^r^mt^^itbpbwbr^^^m^^k tihjh^^^^^kk.’ c‘>‘'^lhf' .- .a^i^h^bik&jh^^^h
w: : vlkii^hib^hesi^^^ll
K _. J., > ' v^wfc%i > - •/4^bfr2^^^es^ll.j^v^
bib^ktf ^•'*y\a F ^ • ^bb^^^w^mb ybl: il. ^\ d. c /bb
yj^hbss' V far'alri |^^|ftvft3^k: V '''%•' as^f^a^^ak^ '. '' ' ryf^^^al'
ibbmkifl^bbbk^^b^^^^^9^^q^^bta3^^^b^^b^ tbbbwbbv^m^hlbl '* B *
ft • vbflbl.' c>^sb^^k.
^^^^^^^|sc^mb^^9|||h^c; f: *'' \v''‘\ai^^a/bvdp ^^
^^^^bbhbbt^^ml > A ^w^ibv' A ■■ C ihr i ^>n^bl^ ^mfllr; I^^KX '-
khrashfti™; 4ihr8ei^e^i A fe'" V ’b V ''R, ' PP'' '' • A ''vmudw' ^ - lifts' '^ v. hb^l
|lk ^^5su^b^lb^^ftvp^^qk9raal. Bh - c.d^^^'m Y. '®^mbk^^^k>ft^e^a'.ln^ji^^fifx"*' ^. .bb^^b
hfi: /vvii>^8b^^b!^f^1^br^r. )s - * .bbk^^^lb!h^^xfeh^hv
al >lvt': ^^inbbb^ftv ' l^^9l^!^k^[blki^^b^^bf ’> v£jb^'^> -
ibft ' * cvabl..* wj^b^b^e&’ *fl^^^l^b^f^^''^''’''"'''^h«
ft,,.. v^^bkbpips^h^^^^^^bsock) ' 'i.asj^^^kc^ v■ L ^a s, i ^^^bj^bab^a
ij^bt ". -, f'k^l"te*8^^bbp5^^h^b^^jb^^^ftl^^^n»..«fijkr^^^e^^^jj^b^b8dp9k y •^vv.v.'^n^^^e^bl
'#' *'^ - a ^* ^^ari^ac ivn
l..^b^hbi: >f^vlllakijk&^b"^ ^tev ^^b^hbsb^bsil ^‘^v^h^^^hifli. -- ^^jbki
« jhbkp^^^ - bt RD:
:; r .bi
er^nbl^km\i c - ^, v^^b j^lbsl c&i^^bb. bm^^^bb. v^mi. ^ ^ftpafts^****^. f^b* Y L ^ B
^^^spbidsp .V; 'VI
ft, IEE ss^isvv
^hbet*'. h/^abpyjw*' *''^^vh^^bp^^8bhbii&' f' j}j^^jtta*^^^sp^r’'^tite: ^.^mhs!i^83i^^b^h ^vp^iibl^^^ /jmljb: 3b. * '■■ ~^^^^^bbwfcg v --.. — ^bciq3lhbifi|m|f^wtifm|^bb|b^
VBL' ‘■^■fthb^s^^^b^ssb^^^bkc^^^v^rp* •'.c*'*^^^^^fl^^^^i^^^bmmh^hliflhc*^e7 ’"■*'bi^^^^^^^^^^rwvh^'s^^al^v^^hbbbs ' ^ S
y; *j^^bbi^b^bbbb^^^b^bld.j^sb9t^^a^^^o^b^b^l ^^^bki.^^h^4llbdue^ xl '^^fc^ab^^^b^'lii^^^sjihbeflb’ ** nfl
x '"^^'tvj v^ ji^ushk^^hi^hhb^k C *' J^BH
v'.rntvs^bk&fv '^a^^^b^bt^babbbp: - ^^jsmrwkv'' ^vrk * ^fcr^^bbshkaljpk ■•^fa^k^b
'''1 T s h' ‘s^^a^^^fibl !v''^hh|h||n^^^h^b^xh^^^^^^hm|9^h|^hb|k
A' ' '' - ■<, .'.Ad
-'-^. 'H'. bki^h||i^^ '•ubb^bbbi^^^bbb^^ea^ir
r a^bt^mb ri r' ■' ' ■''mab^^bbara^^b/a
'tv bf> .■', V IB «^^b^h^3b^nylm^ - ^ \ ^^^b^k9bwb.msw • * Jr < ^’^^b^^bb^^akf
BB m ^'. .^i^^bbbbil^^^^a^^^^f^' .bl ‘ ilab^bt^babm ^ \ b^hi^^hiafii ^* \ h
Bb ' ‘'' bb^s^^bb^^b - ■ v te.' b
n..,. ' Ji^hiv^'^' A
^l^mm ^aa^ari V r '■•'^^ * ./*
'"A' ' " bflbswflsikhikcr.0^ik^^^^hflhhir s
\ir>4i^bf^*^tb^bih^^^b^^ls^b^^^bo^^bljrx's^is'x B'
rb^'*''^hyb M ^^^^bawf ~'" ‘^mbr^^*^b4^bt^a^^^^4^a^^bs^b^^lk.^^^bbl^bb^a^ay bfldj '- »B^^F^B
■' .'.iv'j ' ^aaif^a^^a^^a' ^
ci' N '^ ' il ^ - M
^^pp|p^^pjh^|^^^^^^\i|h^pjjjj|jj^f^k||phjj^^^hh^^|^p^d^r ■'
bbbi^ki .T ^w''•^cvv’‘^4'^'^«tn '. ^a^^^abbal^w/ ^1
^^^■hbh ' "> h ■ m^^ara^^f^^ba^^^b^l'm v\iafi.'^^2i^^b^aa. ■ ^^^nb4skiip^bhib^^^b^k^b^b^^km.^■h^nft ' ^’ *
^hdhl^^^v(^^lbh^k9 ' ^'jnwv^vmi^^l^^^v9ik^/x'i^sssj
i 'X ^ - /im^ba ' ^b^b^mabbbb^^lss w^b^bhb
1^ .^.'s *' ^fesblfl^^ftll ' * \''
. •>•''•> V. >>. p W: • X *
'Iw W' ' >' ■ H.. '
, u, V '' '■*' a|^^h|ihbflp^^bbm^^^^p^^b * W.
'/'^' y_^^v'''v n' ^ei^ ^7. ’■ Ll f n H
j's, ^ nb^^hb^^jp^ym^pfl 'J
d. ■ H /■■ ^sjd " V
'-. jpl' Vd. ■• '^bm^ '
abar.dd.^^bba^abak. *>wl - ^ '/-• ’• • ^. 'Y C " -- ^^^bm ^
ibttk.' has '- ^vlic^^k ■ V r
'<
^^B^^^BBS' ' J' ' : V OM B...
b^^^^bsbl '^bav ^jqrfiflbr T rwct ^^bbhhu^bib^*^^^hbqf^' r.jft^^^^bbk^b^ss^^^^bs^bsb
'v^^l^^^^ftmvkw/" Jflk. *‘ft^bihde^fl^h fthf ''' - .' - .'^^bb^^b^b^^hbb^h^^bibbl
i,; <. .dose' ' '. '■>’■; -'
i; S - : s. ^ CA' ■ - ' ■ “* ^^'’'■•^V,"
J '■ "■ fe ''V ''■■. "'
” V '' '■'■' ' ''
'» ■". V
1 / : ■ ■■ .k;
:. -- - V _
V
^ r. _. : 'sp - • ^ • • • ’
• «^ ' ‘ >
If/t' ■■; 1 - ' V
. ^ ...... -.,
i ' i
1/ *
iv L Ja; .t 7
?• lii ^; •'; - ^ r, j. k i
I
i : •:
i. ^ “' ■':
'r
\ -1
>..
t,
V ' '
V 0 *'
V •* «.: •
- ' " '
4 d.h 'f'■( 'ri. I
; *1!
'. «
»
'a
i.
;
1. •* • k t
■'' i
‘;. i
- - •. I
■;, ‘; !: .i
'' \
• L ... .4-;
'0
J fe..g
t i
«• ' > w
; >: - - .4a
'v. fe ■ S:
^ ' LI
T i
’ •
i. ''
^ f ^
i i'‘
^ it
^ • 0, -* ^ ka
b ^
C V
'• k cc • •
• •. • *
.
■ f' i i
• _ 17,
K >> 1 ^
. w ^ *** r *■ ’
I p
A
; j CT
■ fe
.»
