
•■ Sip HOLNEST PARK
^ ■ ’ ' \*’ » Si I >
"a. ' ^ h’ * * *
S T' THE PROPERTY OF THE TRUSTEES
T • •?.
OF THE LATE
■>'■•' I *■
TS C j, s. W. S. EARL DRAX:
r
82.3 Tqss
■<
J • •
V N %
• f
THE
GODFREY F. SINGER MEMORIAL PRESENTED BY
MR. AND MRS. JACOB SINGER
• ^ '
A
J
•
T H E
 :
A
N O V E L
■
By Young Lady.
Lovey like a Meteory shows a ihon lin/^d biaz, e; | I
Or treads through various Skies, a wand^rin^ Maze : |
Begot by Fancyy aridriny Fancy led; | |
'Here m a Momenty in a Moment fled : 'a, I
[Btit fix'"d by Obligationsy it ID iu laji ‘y S' I
For Gratitude's the Charm that binds it fafi. | 1
lansdown. a
. s / I
a I I
j LONDON
j Printed for J. Robert s, near the o.^^fori j " Arms n pvafwick lane. m.dcc.xxiv. j '
(Price 1 s. 6 d.) j
4
I
i

» 
To the Incomparable
Mrs. Eliza Haywood.
I
Madam,,,,
LAP PERL being so common in a Dedicationy I rejoffd to'chufe a I^B ^ Person whose Merit the ivorld vjas
too well acquainted withy to cause the least Sufficton of my being guilty of that mean Vice.
Riches and Power being what I always less ad'' miredy than those Excellencies which adorn the Mindy particularly when 1 cim so fortunate to find em in my~*iwm fex) Ifhall have reach*d the height of myambitiony if you but read this iittve Book with any Pleasure: : but I am ccnfciousy if L should ^ that Happiness, it will be. owing niore to ■ your Comflaifance than ftidgmentri, it wanting that
flowing Stilcy which in your rhatchlefs Whitingsy like Orpheush Harmonyy rouzes the dullest Minds'
'(till then) unknown pleafuresy or generous Pity; which before they were as little capable ofy as his dancing Groves, Stones, or grovelling Brutes.
ihe Misfortunes (f your fair cnes, are repre --, fented with so forcible, so natural a Delicacy, particularly
of Emanuella; that in Pears we confess as great a Concern for her cruel relentless Fate, as he seems in never ending Sorrows to bemoan that one false Step that robb*d her of her Fame, her Repose, and at lafl her Life. A z Abo'ye
i
Above all, who can read without being inspired with uncommon Delight, her maternal Tenderness for little Victorinus, when he defends to such mean offices so unsuitable to her Binh, or the Delicacies of her Frame and Education? Tet in that Distress her charasier is the moi exalted, as if her noble Mind Ilrove by those intolerable Diffculties to make him fame amends for the Severity of Fortune, in the cruel Inhumanity of a Father, and her too fond Credulity,
But though I am willing to express with what plea fure I have been agreeably amused several Hours in reading your delightful Works, I am fenjible it has, and ought to be thepheme of a judgement much better skillet, with a Genius infimtely more refined than mine; Not but I will venture, with a prophetic Boldness, to ajfureyou, that incomparable Play you were pleased to how me part of in Manuscript, will be esteemed by the moi excellent fudges, a matchless Piece, and make your Fame as ithmortal, though' in a different way, as the never dying Sapho.
All I have mentioned of your perfeslions, is already conspicuous to the World, but the affable Poll tenefs of your Conversation, is what only can be known, and enjoy*d by an Intimate j and indeed that excellent Good breeding so apparent in your Writing, adds an uncommon lu/lre to your other good Sense, which is fiill greater, by being joined to such an open Candour and Sincerity, by which the Rough and unpoli/h*d often endeavour to atone for their want of that accompli/hment. I am, with
that refpeb due to your extraordinary Merits,
Madam,
Your moll Obedient
%
Humble Servant,
J
(O
THE

t
Politer Part of the World were alfembled in Gardens of
liii Royal Palace to view each
^rl her, and the gay Beauties of
which then began to
II -- -- -^ throw forth all her Sweets; teii
thousand different Objects attracted the Sight, thro’ the Spacious Walks; Brilliants, and the more Sparkling Shine of Lovely Eyes, created a bright Track resembling the Milky Way, and Beauty fhew’d itself in all the various Changes which Time makes, from the opening Bud of early Iouth, to its falling Autumn; nor did that lovely Goddess vary less in her many Arts to engage, than those whom cruel Time had caused such ill natur’d Disiinctions between : for there you might at once behold, according to their peculiar genius’s, the indolent, the haughty, the condefeending, and the lively Coquet, that by a thousand airy Affectations invited to the Chase those who wanted only AXE
Flier ft U D E.
musement; whilsi the Severe Prude, with Sullen Blushes, and now and then an unaware Glance, bid the Beholder to more Solid Joys.
Nor were the Gentlemen less skill’d than the Ladies, either in the Art of Dressing, of Affectation, it being nowadays the moil powerful Magnetick by which the Fair and Brave drive to attract each other: but, as it has been observ’d, that Valour is always more esieem’d by the Softer Sex than ivtfdom, So it is certain in this Asifembly there were more ajfupd than wise Looks.
Of the sirft Stamp is Polonius i bis chief Accomplishment is an inimitable Asiurance, the Indulgence of a great Person who was fond of his childish Prattle, contributed towards his attaining. So high a Perfection that: way 5 None ever had So ready an Art as hein drawing into; the Cheeks of the Fair the sineft, Vermilion, though it is not in the po w’er of human Art to create the least Tincture; in hisc It was in this gay Assembly he attack’d two young ladies;; the company of another more advanc’d in Years. The conscious Shame that appear’^d in their Looks at his loose Nonsense, fhew’d they were not so resinedly bred, as to enter into a fashionable Parley r ’till Emelia, the eldest, perceiving the Company began to observe them, turn’d to him, aiid with Looks which exprefs’d her Resentment much more than her Words, Said, Sir, have these Ladies or I given you any Offence, that you presume on these unusual Liberties with us, who do not expect this sort of Treatment from one that has the appearance of a Gentleman? To which the confident Youth
« » ^ nat • rv 1
The rr 0, p E, 2
♦ ' • A. k. V X
is they have but the good nature delightfully to heal the Wounds their Eyes haye' made. It has been very offensive, to thcmretees, Di jwekd Lmelia, in a more angry Accent than before, since it has caused you to treat theni. in a manner they are Strangers to, and desire still to continue so. You may perhaps be mistaken, refum*d he pertly, and the Ladies may 'not desire to continue So ignorant as you would per^ suade them : And why thtn, added he sate yoii So cruel to hinder me from imparting thiat happy Knowledge to them, I am Sensible your La dyfhip’s Experience can be no Ilranger to;? Emelia, flung to the quick at this Insolence; told him his Tutor Should be acquainted with his audacious Follies, to prevent his receiving a Severe Chaftifefnent elsewhere. The bold Polonius sinding by £wf/m’s last Reply she knfew more of him than his Dress, was just returning her a Shocking Answer, when lyfanier, who had heard what pafs’d between them, (tho’a Stranger) approaching Emelia with an Air of Respect, Said, Ladies, be pleas’d to give me leave to wait on you to your Coacli. She readily offering him her Hand, they went Some Paces from Polonius, whom they left muttering his disappointed Refeniment, in a Tone Somewhat more cautiously. S When Lysander addressing himself to Emelia, Said, Madam I took the liberty to approach you, as if acquainted, judging it the most effectual way. to free you from, the Uneasiness wssiich I percctved the Indiscretion of Polonius occasion’d. We think ourselves indebted to you, reply*d that Lady, for your uncommon Complaisance, being irpp little used to the Town, to ewter into Such
4 Lhe
Chevalier Conversation;; indeed own lam ■ So very ill-bred, as to wonder how Women can possibly bear his. But let us leave this Place, continued he, which is very unfit for us. On which they quitted the Walks to go directly to their Coach, whither Lysander attended them, Moll of the Discourse thither was between him and Emelia; the respectful Distance with which he treated the Ladies, not at all asiu ming on the seasonable Civility he had render’d them, caused Emelia to express herself in a manner so obliging, as fhew’d she was not insensible of the Favour, Decency Seeming only to hinder her from desiring to commence an Acquaintance with him; And Lysander, who had full Modesty enough for so accomplish’d a Gentleman, thought he Should resemble too much the confident Polonius, to make the least Attempt that way. For tho’ the Beauty of Bellamira (which was the youngest of the two Ladies that accompanied Emelia) had created stronger Desires, and more violent Emotions in his Soul, than he ever had been Sensible of before; yet there was Something in Emelia that made him timorous, and afraid to offend her by presuming too far. Just as she was stepping into her Coach, She told Lysander She thought the Lady and herself so much oblig’d to him for So opportune a Relief, that She was consident, Should either of their Families ever have the Happiness to know him, he would sind their Acknowledgenients equal to his Merits. Qn which Lysander reply’d, that he deserved too little to recommend himself to So great an Honour, whatever his Ambition was; ind w’ith a respectful Bow withdrew, though he
‘i r R u D E. 5
so perfectly comprehended Emelia s last Words, as to judge his Acquaintance would not be difpleasing, were it in his power to be introduced in a way sit for them to receive him. To that end, having sirft obferv’d the Arms and Livery, he difpatch’d a Courier he knew, there being Numbers who wait about those Places, and are known to Gentlemen that frequent them; Lysander strictly charging him not to lose sight of the Coach, till he had learned all their Names, and where each one dwelled.
The Mesienger soon difpatch’d the Affair, with a Skill peculiar to that sort of People; and returning, came where Lysander appointed, acquainted him the Coach went directly home, where he learned from the Servants themselves, that Emelia was a Country Gentlewoman, intruded by the Parents of the young Ladies, who had been dead many Years, with the Care of their Education, because She was esieem’d a very prudent Person, and Was Misirefs of a great Esiate; that since then, Elijinda the eldesi Sister had a vast Fortune left her by a Grandmother; and as Soon as She became of Age, she had her own Equipage and Servants, living by herself, though now whilst they staid in .Down they all were at bellgranls, Brother to Elifinda and Bellamira. With this Account Lysander return’d home, fully satisfy’d he had discover’d enough to sind the means to be introduced to their Acquaintance, this day’s trifling Adventure having made an unusual Impression on him. The Charms of Bellamira now Supplying the place of balmy Rest, which indeed were too powerful to behold with indifference i her Shape and
6 irdc E R Up K
Features being exactly form’d, with a Complexion inimitable by Art: But where is the Pitian Stroke, that ' can describe her matchless Mein, which at once in Spires Love and Respect, with ah Innocence So perfect, that a Savage Heart might as well attempt to hurt a harmless Infant, as give her the least Offence; and if She wanted the poignant Wit and lively Airs Some are so agreeably Miftresi'es of; yet all She said was mixed with Such ah obliging Sweetness, and her Words flovv’d with so Soft an Accent, as with irresiftible Force Seizes on the Faculties, and quite disarms the Mind, like the most harmonious Instruments, when touch’d by skilful Hands. Lysander had already gazed too long, not to, feel all their Influence; the pleasing Infection had seiz’d too strong, for any Dissicuties or even Despair to cure, tho’ he was conscious her Birth and Fortune were far above his Hopes; nor was he insensible that Love and Ambition are the two fatal Passions that ofrner
• •• *. A. •
hurry Youth into irreparable Miseries, than raise them to an envied Height; for which reason he refpiv’d to curb the Reins of his, and tread with - cautious Steps, that if he did fall, it might be gently and unperceived. Amidst these various Reflections, he could determine on nothing more, but to further his irresiftible de lires of getting acquainted with the Ladies, and leaving the rest to Fortune, which hitherto had favour’d him in an extraordinary man? ner; He having been very liberally educated by a Gentlenlan that gave no other reason for it, than that his Father was his particular Friend, and as soon as he was capable, purchased him
the^rvdr 7
a very considerable Employment, still keeping him in his House as his Son. This Gentleman, whom I Shall mention by the Name of Olarius, was the younger Brother of a noble Family; and having a Genius more inclined to Contemplation than Activityj enter’d into Holy Orders, by which means he had a large Benesice to his own Fortune, which was not inconsiderable for a younger Brother. He had all the Virtues and true Devotion which the World
• ft
expect in a Clergyman j and reproach the want of, his Instructions being blended with as much good Manners as Sense; and there appear’d Such an affable politeness in whatever he said or did, that the Young liften’d to him with refpeaand Pleasure;; Poor of all degrees were his Care; through his House Was Soen an hospitable Plenty, without the least mixture of Debauchery. He never married, Which, some young Ladies related, in freedom used to tell him, was owing to the perverse Treatment of a Beauty he loved when younger. He had for Lysander all the Tenderness of a real Father, having brought him irp frdm between two and three Years old, and indeed the Virtues and Ingenuity of that young Gentleman recompens’d his Care: but what most {urptiz*d Lysander, was, he never made the least mention of his Parents or Relations to him, tho’he often took an opportunity, by expressing his Gratitude, to introduce a Discourse that might lead Olarius to say Something of them; but, on the contrary, he found he still artfully avoided it. This was the state of his Affairs when he sirft saw Bellamira, whom he resolved with all his Ad
\

dress to get acquainted with. He had often met Bellgrand in public Asiemblies, but had no particular Intimacy with him, which was owing to his not desiring it; he knowing his Character and Turn of Temper too well to fear any great difficulty in the accomplishing his new Design that way: : Bellgrand is So ex treamly proud of being born to a great Estate, that he looks on all whom Fortune has not made so happy that way as himself, as if created with inferior Faculties, and form’d of coarser Materials, not that his Looking glafs has not often conxhnc’d him of the last Error. However, ancient Birth, Titles, and a polite Education have all their force in making him think he is Something extraordinary, as indeed he is, his native Country having nothing in it but what is too low, too plain, and insipid for his refin’d Genius; who has not a Picture in his House, or a Statue in his Garden, which most of the Princes of Europe have not strove by immense Sums to purchase, which he by out bidding obtain’d. Youths as effeminately Soft as those that guard the Ajlan Fair, gaily drefs’d in graceful Order, wait in each Apartment through which the Visitants pafs. Music is his chief Delight, in which he has exquisite Skill, and So nice an Ear, that the harsh Crack of a Country Fiddle has often made him ready to swoon;; Accomplishment Lysander knowing, contriv’d it So as to make it the means of his obtaining his Designs on the Ladies : He having a Violin, which most of the great Artists in that heavenly Science efteem’d So excellent in its kind, he took care to fall,
• •! ff # 1 f
Lhe   9
grands way; where Music being at length the Theme, he mentioned the Excellence of this Inftruraent, which siring Bellgrand immediately with a Curiosity to hear it play’d. on, he desir’d Lysander to let one of his Musicians try it. But the other answer’d him. That in a few days Olarius intended to entertain some Ladies with a Piece, he believ’d, of good Music, in Concert with this Violin; and he was consident that Olarius, as well as himself, would be extremely proud if he would honour them with his Company; which Bellgrand accepted, in Terms that fhew’d he was obliged by the Invitation.
Lysander, who had laid this Bait to commence an Acquaintance, refolv’d to have a more powerful one to continue it; for which reason, he prevail’d on Olarius to invite ari ana, a great Fortune, to this Entertainment; knowing Bellgrand valued himself too much to look with regard on any Lady, who was not liberally endow’d with that Accomplisii' ment. Olarius, who had the Concert, in compliance to lyfander*s Request, left the ordering of it entirely to him, who took care to have all things managed with a poiiteness Suitable to bellgrand*s resin’d tasie : Nor did he fail to omit one Opportunity of insinuating ail ariana*s Perfections, join’d with so vast a Fortune, which had the desired Effect : for he was so transported with the Music, and her Charms, which shone thro’ the adr ditional Lustre of ten thousand Pounds worth of Jewels, so fparklingly bright, not only tp dazzle his Eyes, but all his senses.
'10 Lhe
• ^
It was now that he began to think Lysander a Person of nice Judgement, and wonder’d how it was possible he had not made an earlier Discovery of so many accomplifli’d Parts : He paid all his Devoirs to Ariana, who is prodigious fond of the Compliment, how de fpicably Soever (lie thinks of the Addresier j and with a Secret Pride strives to ingrofs all the Gallantry to herself, whilsi: several discontented Ladies Surround her unregarded. This Humour of her’s gave Bellgrand such encouraging Hopes, that never Man parted Irom Company better pleas’d than he; not but he felt himself a little enviousiy touch’d, to sind a plain homebred Gentleman Should have almosi as elegant a Tasie of living as himself.

The very next Morning he made Lysander a Visit, telling him he was so charm’d with Ariana, that he came to entreat his Assisiance towards the obtaining her; which musi be done, added he, by your influencing Olarius to be my Friend; who, I undersiand from ari ana, is particularly acc]uainted with her Father. Nothing could be more pleasing to Lysander, than this Discourse of bellgrand*s;, who answered him, with a Promise of all his interesi in Olarius, if, when he had thought more seriously on it, he found himself inclin’d to pursue the Design. On this, Bellgrand took him in his Arms, protesiing there was nothing he more earnesily desired; and if he would but leijd his Aid, he was sure to accomplish it, which would eternally bind him his Friend. Lysander returning these Compli
ixirk nil aflrirsmrpq on hlc
Lhe r R u D E. II
€.
grand would not part with him that Day. They went out together; and after they had Spent the Morning in the usual Amusements of the Town, Bellgrand carry’d Lysander home to dinner with him.
it’s now time to return to the Ladies : Emelia, who from the sirft Moment she saw Lysander, had taken an uncommon liking to him, did nothing but talk of him as she was returning home, praising his handsome address, the Graces of his Person, and above all, his Modesty and Respect: : Short, she said so much to his advantage, that the Ladies began to rally her, by telling her if file had been as young as the handsome Stranger, they Should have fuspected she was fallen a little in love with him. To which Emelia answer’d, I know not but I might; but as it is, were his Birth and Fortune Suitable, I Should willa he were a Husband to Bellamira, whose Happiness I desire equally with my own. Bellgrand had been in the Ladies Apartment that Morning, before he went to Lysander, and told them how agreeably he was entertain’d the Night before by him, of whom he Spoke so advantageously, as raised a Curiosity in the Ladies to see him. But Emelia was pleasingly surpriz’d, when, being Soon after brought, she Sound he was the same that not a Fortnight before had freed them from a troublesome Adventure; and approaching him with an Air that exprefs’d her Satisfaction, said, Sir, I promis’d if ever we had the happiness to be acquainted with you, you Should not find us insensible of the Obligation we then receiv’d: And lam certain, continu’d foe, Bellgrand has too great an E
IX
fteem for Lysander, not to be infinitely pleas’d to find it is to him he owes the Protection of his Sisiery. Lysander, arm’d for this Encounter, exprefs’d a Surprise equal to that of the Ladies, returning the Compliment with how much he thought himself honour’d in Serving persons of their Merit, and bellgrand’s Relations: the young Ladies, joining the dif courfe, Bellamira told him with an Air of Sweetness peculiar to her, on his terming of the Service he had render’d them as a Trifle, it was a Civility none there had the Good nature to attempt besides himself. At Dinner the Conversation was wound up to a very agreeable Height; Emelia was never heard to talk so gaily bright as then, and ly jander convinc’d the whole Company he had a Genius that deserved to be regarded by the politefl: Part of Mankind.
Emelia, before they parted, let him undersiand his Visits would not be difpleasing to her, which was thoroughly delightful to Lysander;; besides the hopes of feeing Bellamira, in whom all his Desires were center’d, yet he found in himself a Regard for Emelia; which, tho’ it could not be Love, had Something too respectfully tender for even friend fhip, mix’d with an Awe and Fear, to offend her.
The lady’s Visiters beginning to come, Lysander withdrew with Bellgrand; who renewing his Solicitations concerning Ariana, he promis’d Speedily to open the Affair to;
which, [aid he, as I desire it Should prove fuc cessful, I musi try to insinuate with Some Artifice, which. I am certain, will be necesiarv to

S
incline him to move in it, because he is very cautious of meddling in any one’s Affairs, especially Marriages i not that I entirely despair of prevailing on him; and so, for that Day, took his leave.
Lysander did not fail in the least Tittle of his Promises to Bellgrand; he soon Spoke to Olarius, representing to him the Advantage of bellgrand*s Birth, which was much superior to ariana*s; besides a considerable Estate in that Family, she would have no Examples which were not of the strictest Virtue; making large Encomiums on the Merits of Emelia and Bellamira: but for the Piety and Devmtion of Elifinda, it was known to the whole Town : adding. In his private Opinion, he thought Le Merchant, Aho Father of Ariana, ought to esteem himself honour’d in the Alliance of such a Family as bellgrand’s. These Reasons, with the Influence he had on Olarius, easily inclin’d him to Speak to aria na*s Father about it, who was pleased with the Offer; and Lysander carried the delightful News to Bellgrand, before he imagin’d he had so much as mention’d it to Olarius. The intended Bridegroom met the Father at his House, a Treaty of Marriage went on between the two Families, with a success equal to the Lovers Wishes; and Ariana, whose Ambition was fully gratify’d by this Match, receiv’d bellgrand’s Visits by the Command of her Father, now only waiting the lawyer’s fettling the Jointure and other Writings.
In the interim, the Ladies who were brought acquainted on this occasion with each other.
14
determin’d to go together to the Masquerade; except whose seeming Piety was of
too pure a Strain to admit a Thought of her entering into Such a Place; for which reason, the same Day, as soon as she had dined, she retired with Stanijja her Friend, to a little Scat she had three Miles out of Town, there to give a greater Loose to their Contemplations; but of what sort, the Reader will easi ly judge, by the following Relation, being forc’d to traverse backwards into this lady’s History, before file can be brought into the Scene of present Action.
Elijinda is tall, her Shape free and easy, with a Complexion of the purest White, without the least Tincture of Red; her Hair is of that golden Colour so celebrated in the Poets Songs, with Features but indifferent; her Eyes, moving with a heavy Deadness, are generally fix’d on the Ground, with So conscious a Shame, as if afraid to advance their Lids, as dreading to encounter Looks too amorous, and too warm for So cold cha ftity and So strict a Virtue, as that which she profesies. This excessive Modesty in her Looks is correspondent to all her outward Actions, eachweek several Days are Set apart for Prayers and Falling j and such is her Abhorrence of Vice, that no Persons of what (Quality Soever are admitted within her Doors, that have the least Taint on their Reputations. Then to prevent th Scandals of the Malicious, her Chaplains are always old, and only come at fix’d Times to perform their Office: Tho’ Emelia s real Virtues were the Original from whence She so artfully copy’d ail her seeming ones j
'‘I he r R u D E. 15
yet she carry’d her’s to so great a Height, that the other, like a feeble Light, appear’d almost extinguish’d by the Attraction of her Superior Brightness.
Elijinda s great Fortune, which is already mention’d, left by a Grandmother, occasion’d her being desir’d in marriage by a number of considerable Families, which she still refused; fearing, as she said, that in this lewd irreligious Age it would be impossible for her to sind a Husband, that in the least could match her exalted Virtues; But alas! how different were the real Sentiments of her Heart, being sill’d whth Desires quite cout trary to all this outward Piety? It is not to be determin’d whether it be owing to her Confticution, that certainly has more Fire in it than is natural to so cold a Climate, or the good Instruction of Stamjfa, who has experienc’d as many Lovers as Religions; She is a distant Relation to Elifinda, and from her early Youth they were Companions. She had not been with her long, before one of eli finda*s Footmen captivated her, more by the: manly Beauties that appearm through his whole Frame, than by the Delicacy of his Features, or the Excellency of his Understanding. She generously experienc’d him sirft herself, and then persuaded Elijinda to partake of thq extatick Pleasure: All the happy Moments between the Lover and the Ladies were at emelia*s House;; the Secret was divulg’d to none, Stanijfa was too cunning to let even a trusty chamber maid into it: for the Lover having the Freedom of the lovver part of the fifoufe, as soon as the Family were wrapped in
i n M
i6 Lhe
Sound Sleep, he without Shoes, in a white Sheet, took his silent Walks up an unfrequented Pair of Stairs, which for many Years had been efteemm haunted. He was once or twice met by some of the Servants, which had this happy Effect for the Lovers, that on the most emergent Occasions none of them could be prevail’d on to go nigh that part of the House after it was dark : Nay, Bellgrand himself, who came to see his Sisters after his Travels, and had heard several unaccountable Stories, which the Peoples Fears had magnify’d, though he seem’d then to turn it into ridicule; yet they made so great an Impression on him, that one Night, returning late from the Garden, as the nearest way to his Apartment, he went up these Stairs; where, meeting this Picture, it so dreadfully frighten’d him, that he fell in a Swoon, and had like to have dy’d for want of Help.
This rather increas’d their Mirth, than caused them to be the least alarm’d, not but they pretended a Fear greater than the rest, especially the Fellow on whom no Bribe could " prevail to go nigh that Parc of the House after it was dark; yet it’s certain he often felt Secret Fears of meeting in reality what he but represented. However, he was so aw’d by their Power, and flatter’d by their Gifts, as not only to be Secret, but faithfully divided himself between them, till he fell into a Ccmfumption, of which he dy’d; his charitable Mistress, in her great Compassion, having a tender Care taken of him, being even at the Charge of sending him a
for the chaiip^p nf hatrpr Air.
  ly
The Joy to find her Reputation had So happy an Escape, very much ballanc’d the loss of him who she for sometime pad had efteem’d a useless Lover; and now being at age, by the Advice of Stanijfa, she chose to live by herself, to be under the less restraint, not omitting the Setting up an Equipage, though very. unusual in a Lady so young : yet her prudent Conduct, with Virtues so excelling, was So far proof against: every Scandal, that the Young and Gay look’d on her with Fear and Envy, hearing eternal Reproaches from their Parents and grave Relations, - for being wanting in those pious Perfections which Shone so conspicuously in all her Actions.
This exalted Character, her great Fortune, with a Person tolerably handsome, in spite of all her Repulses, created a Crowd of Matrimonial Lovers, that strove who Should be the happy Man that might obtain the Honour of being bound in her golden Chains. a mongft these numberless Lovers, there was one whose soft pliant Temper fhew’d more of a sweet Disposition, than any great Depth of Understanding. This was the only Person Elifinda ever had thoughts of making a Husband, which She imparted to Stanijfa, with the Reasons that induc’d her, (as having already had some Proofs of Pregnancy.j Such a Husband might not be amiss to father her Children : But Stanijfa, who at that time was better acquainted with Mankind than herself, told her. Marriage would be a Bane to all her Happiness; Fora Husband, said she, is too near a Spy on your Actions, let his Capacity be ne’er so weak, for you
i8
possibly to amuse him with those gilded shows of Virtue, which easily pafs on the distant World; he has a Right to exact from you where you go, and how long you stay, and, on the least Suspicion, you must move like clockwork at his Will and Pleasure. You have now, added she, no other Care than that of inventing, some plausible Business to employ your People when you have not a mind they Should be prying into what you are doing : but when you are married, they are his Servants, and to conceal from him, you must lie more open to them. Now Should : they discern anything, the fear of being turn’d out of doors will make them blind as you could wish;; when they know there is a Power superior to your’s, if you do not humour their Insolence, and gratify their greedy Covetousness, which will grow daily "on them, they’ll sirft whisper it round to his Relations, who will irritate him to bring you to public Shame; and in his greatgenerosity, perhaps he may be brought to allow you one percent, out of your own Estate. Besides, purfu*d Stanilfa, Should that Miracle happen of never being difcover’d, do not imagine his Folly will be any Security for his not wandering. Fools have no Idea beyond senfa tion, which miift be gratify’d by Variety; he’ll soon loath that constant insipid Feast of a Wife, and on some unknown Flirt, lavish not only the Love that Should be your’s, but your very Fortune must go to make the gaudy Thing, with an Equipage, stare you in the face; whilst, without hope of Redress, you
Tnnft then in parnpft flv so vonr Closipf anrf
  19
pray for Patience; and there are too many Griff else in this Age, for you to expect by all these Sufferings to have your Name chanted in English Ballads, or more melodious Songs by the Italians: No, continvd Ihe, the Woman that expects Happiness in Marriage, must have an Understanding as conformable to that of her Husband, as Echo is to the Sound; she is only to think the same thing o’er again, he has thought before; and love him with so entire a Fondness, as to imagine his very Follies superior Perfections to the rest of Mankind.
I
elifindaiwas sensible there was too much Reason in what Stanijfa said, not to divert her from every Thought of Marriage, resolving from that moment, like the great Queen Elizabeth, to have it writ on her marblemo nument. She dy*d a spotless Virgin.
Thus all her discarded Lovers were left to comfort themselves under so great a Disappointment, according to their Several Inclinations, though it’s certain most of them chose rather to forget her by the help of Sparkling Champain, than in diffracted Plaints mourn her Loss by the Soft Murmurs of a silver Stream. Stanorius happening to be in company with some of these despairing Swains, heard them curse their rigid Fate, and her more rigid Scorn; at the same time admiring the exalted Virtue which had blasted all their ambitious Desires. He, on the contrary, had met Such resift less Success in all his Adventures with the Fair, as fix’d in him a general ill Opinion of their Chastity; tho’ he had as uncontroul’d a Daring in Love as Wgr, yet
2.0 s
he always foften’d his addrelses with so much good Manners, that imperceptibly he gain’d their Hearts. It was impossible for him to hear So much talk of Elifindafs cold Indifference, without being fired with a desire to try if she could prove a Rock against all his artful Batteries : he had seen her, and fancy’d there was too knowing a Modesty in her Looks. Besides the common ill Opinion, his own Experience had convinc’d him, her colour’d Hair was rather a Symptom of Flames, Raptures, and Darts, than so much Ice. He had the Skill to turn himself into every sort, of Lover, agreeable to the Nymph in pursuit; and imagining the way to prevail on Elifinda, if at all, would be in the following manner; accordingly contriv’d, in an unknown Hand, to send her this Letter.
To ELISINDA
Madam,
* THE Contempt with which you have
* L justly treated all who have presum’d ‘ to court your Fortune, under the ancient
* honourable Pretences of Matrimony, Shows
* you have a steadier Courage, and Genius
* exquisitely more resinm, than the rest of your ‘ Sex.
‘ But though the fair Elifinda despises those
* Wretches, are there no Hopes for him
* who only Seeks your lovely elf? I am con'
'‘ that you, who have so nice a Discern
‘ ment and have squar’d your Actions with
* so Solid, so excellent a Judgement, must have
1 a Soul form’d of quicker and warmer Mate
The P R u ie. ir
'rials, than appears in those frozen Looks.
‘ Yes, Elifinda, your happy Lover would en ‘ joy Delights as far above what all your ‘ Sex can give, as your Understanding is fu ‘ periour to their’s. What Bliss then must ‘ he be fill’d all o’er with, that can press you ‘ close, close to his fluttering Heart 1 The ‘ very thought makes me ready to run mad,
‘ and do extravagant Things to obtain you.
‘ Did I not know it were the certain way to ‘ lose you for ever, I swear by the Honour ‘ that to a Soldier is sacred, no Tortures, nor ‘ Pleasures, shall force me to reveal the least ‘ Favour the lovely Elifinda shall bestow: :
‘ throw off the Disguise, and receive ‘ a Lover that loves, adores, and dotes with ‘ out the least view of Interest; for I, alas i ‘ am already gall’d with a Matrimonial ^ Chain: but eternally, by Inclination, will ‘ be your’s.’
Never was Surprise equal to that o( Elid findd.s on her reading this Letter; she imagined it was sent to affront her, and concluded Some of her Secret Rambles with Stanijfa were difcover’d, having had no particular Amour since the loss of him on whom she bellow’d the glorious Prize of Virgin Honour. What most amaz’d her, was, how possibly the Person that Sent the Letter, Should be so perfectly acquainted with the very Sentiments of her Soul: she flew with it to stanijfa*s Chamber, to try if she could unravel the meaning; who, after she had read it over three or four times, told her she thought there appeared niore of a bold irregular Pafljon, than any de
11
sign of Ridicule, or Affront : however, added Jhe, send an answer negligently Scornful, instead of resenting Anger; but on Inquiry, they found the Mesienger siaid for none. She took it to her Closet, where the oftener Jfhe perused it, the more she desir’d to know the pleasing Author, having hitherto only tasied the grosiesi part of Love, contrary to her Sex, who with the loss of their Innocence descend by degrees to that meanness she begun with: and tho’the disiant Bows and awful Cringes of her matrimonial Admirers, were too insipid for her ladyfhip’s high Gusi; yet she imagined unknown Joys, in a Lover that would Seize her like a bold Ravisher sired with eagerer Desires than wssiat were merely owing to constitution;; was it long before her Wishes were accomplish’d; for within two Days sta norius sent a Letter by one of his own Servants to this effect.
STJKORIUS to elisint>ji
Madam,
‘ T believe your Ladyship within this three ' JL days received a Letter of Such a Nature,
‘ as none evtr presumed on the like to you ‘ before; if you please, I will punish the ‘ Offender for you, or put it in your power,
‘ by acquainting you who he is, to treat him as ‘ you Shall judge he deserves.
Your ladyfliip’s mosi Obedient Humble Servant
SPANOKIUS,
  23
Stanorius was not without the Reflection, that if Elijinda was in reality such as She appeared, he Should hear from her by a grave Relation; which if he did, he refolv’d to lay it on a young Gentleman that was lately run mad, and the first; Symptoms that difcover’d his being infected with that difease, was writing of Letters to Persons of Quality, whose Names were only known to him. At sirft they determined to have sent a Relation, when considering it more closely, Ihe and Stanijja. reflected, he was really galled with that Clog of Matrimony so heavily complained of in the Letter, they wondered a Man of Pleasure Should be so busy in what so little concerned him, he being very Slightly acquainted with them; besides, his Morals were known to be too loose, to make Things of this nature a grave Business; all which circumftancescaus’d them to mistrust he was the Offender, who would put himself in Elijindals power, to be treated as she Should judge he deserved: Which made them presently resolve, Stanijfa only Should visit him from her. What inclined them So willingly to enter into a Correspondence with him, they were sensible, tho’ very uncommon, he always had the ill Nature to leave the Ladies at the trouble of exposing themselves, without contributing in the least his Help.
The very next Morning Stanijfa visited him, and in violent Terms exclaimed against though insolent Presumption of him, who dared to offend elijinda*s chaste Thoughts by such an indecent Treatment. The Crime, anfivoepd Sta
24 Ibe
wrius, were unpardonable if known; but as it is, added he, I hope the Fair Elifinda is not much offended. No! replied she; how can you imagine she does not resent it, as the most egregious Affront that could be offered her? And how is it possible, continued Stanijfa, it Should not be known since it has already reach’d you, and no doubt, by the same means will Spread thro’ the whole Town? My being acquainted with it, ' refuwdd Stanorius, has no more danger in it, than if I had told myself I adored the lovely Elifinda. On hearing this, Stanijfa started, expressing a great Surprise: but he purfuingthe Discourse, said, I am the guilty 'Offender, and these Gentlemen (putting into iher Hand a Purse of a hundred Pieces) in itreat you not only to iplead to Elifinda for Pardon, but to tell her my ardent Love could know no rest ’till I sold her thus; and then embracing her in the most passionate manner, that she began to think him a Lover worthy of Elifinda, they Soon perfectly under llood each other. All she now ftagger’d at, was Reputation, and the fear of her being expos’d, which Stanorius dispers’d by bitter .Imprecations, wishing he might be blasted with the Character of Coward, and Fool, if he so much as whifper’d it to the Winds : No, said he, I adore her as much for the Excellency of her Understanding, as all her other Charms; she has a resin’d Genius beyond her Sex, who generally are such Fools to give up every Pleasure for this one: She knows how to enjoy each, whilst, with insulting Pride, she tyrannises o’er the fond Girl, that

of a well “drcfs’d Beau has loll: all the regular Happiness of Life; then she can tower it with the felf denying Dames, who rail at others for
that which with Such difficulty they restrain themselves.
confirm’d in her Opinion of his Secrecy, she return’d to Elifinda, to whom she related all that pafs’d, except the Purse;; infpir’d her to say so much to his advantage, that Elifinda soon agreed to a Meeting, and a Day of Devotion was fet apart, which she went to perform with him, they liking each other So well, that he continu’d her Lover till his Employment called him out of the Kingdom. He was the best Gallant for Stanijfa that ever Elifinda had j for his liberal Presents, join’d with hers, made her a Fortune not inconsiderable. Stanorius, faithful to his Promise of Secrecy, after a whole Winter of Love, continu’d So passionately fond of Elifinda, that when she went to Emelia s, which she constantly did every Summer, staying about three Months, he made a Visit to the nearest Acquaintance he had in that part of the Country, which, tho’ full twenty miles distant, he frequently rid it to and fro in a Night; she giving him a Key to the Garden door that was nighest her Chamber, to which he mounted by a Ladder of Ropes. it’s certain ftolem pleasures are the sweetest, for had Elifinda been easier of Access, she probably would have worn the Willow much Sooner, as several beautifuller Ladies h^d done Successively before, by his inconstant Changing.
One Night, expecting him, she retir’d ' iearlier than usual, under pretence of per
'l6 Shep R U D Ei
/
forming her Evening devotions. The Servant that was sent to the next Town to fetch the Letters from the Poll, happening to return later than ordinary, Emelia receiving one from Bellgrand, in wssiich was something of Importance, that Ihe imagin’d proper to acquaint Elifinda immediately with. She went to her Chamber door, where rapping pretty loud, Elifinda was forc’d to slip on her Nightgown, and let her in; but the Confusion that appear’d in her Looks, for fear he Should come in the mean time, caus’d Emelia to ask if She was well. I am frighten’d, aid he (just then beginning to hear the Noise he made in mounting, which She easily diftinguifh’d, though too little for the other to perceive) for I dreamed Thieves were breaking into my Apartment when you wak’d me. She spoke this in a very loud Accent, in hopes he would have heard her; but Stanorius was too intent on the pleasing Business he came about to mind it, and throw ing up the Sasii, took Emelia about the Neck, (her Back being towards the Window) kissing her with the eager Transports of a famifh’d Lover. At which Elifinda immediately fell a crying, Thieves! — Thieves! — Murder —
Murder Stanorius presently took the Hint, and flung ^ himself down the Ladder, whilst Elifinda, in her great Fright, pufh’d Emelia from the Window j and, letting down the Ladder, renew’d her Screams, by laying. Take the Ladder up! Take it up! He turn’d and obey’d her, immediately making off; She still continu’d her Outcries, as if confus’d in her Wits, holding Emelia So fast, that She could neither let the Servants in. nor tell them
  2 7
what the Matter was for a considerable time, still roaring out, the Garden was full of arm’d Men. She Said So on purposd to have the Garden search’d sirft, knowing he would soon get from thence, and whilst they were employ’d there, he might get off unperceiv’d.
The Servants having examin’d the House, Gardens, and nearest Roads, without sinding the least Track of Man or Horse, imagin’d the Ladies out of their Senses, or elfe had seen a Spirit; tho’ Emelia was convinc’d, by his manner of accosting her, it could not be the last, *, join’d with every Circumstance, caus’d her soon to guess what sort of Robbery he came on. elifinda*s Confusion, her Dream, with her loud Relations of it, and what follow’d, occasion’d her calling to mind, that not long before a Countryman, going out early on his Morning businefs, found a Horse, with handsome Furniture, tied to a neighbouring Tree, and on Inquiry it was difcover’d to be a gentleman’s at some distance, fup pos’d to be stolen out of the Stables, and left there on some occasion by the Thief, or perhaps a Fright, join’d with the Care Elifinda took to hold her So fast, that she could neither stir to the Window nor the Door, while the ser vants strove in vain for Entrance; all which Emelia put together, not at all to elifinda*s advantage, to whom she took no other Notice, than on hearing her People say, What a happy Escape they had I She answer’d. No, we prevented their Theft for this time. Which Expression, though it stung Elifinda to the quick, she had too much Discretion to Seem to understand;; but this Accident So
is Shep R u D E.
alarm’d her, that, by the help of Stanijfa, she let him know she could no longer receive his Midnight Visits : on which he return’d to Town, and she found in less than three Weeks a plausible Excuse to follow him; her Sister Bellamira always staying with Emelia, to whose Wisdom Elifinda paid the Compliment of her improving more than with herself, though the real Motive was very different; for the early Spring of that young Lady, promis’d too rich a Summer of Beauty for her to behold without Discontent and Envy : She was not ignorant one tolerably handsome, accompany’d only with the Ugly or the Old, has some Influence; whilst such superior Charms as beuamira*% must needs eclipse her inferior ones, as she after found to her Cost.
Before the end of the next ensuing Winter Stanorius was called out of the Kingdom by his Employment, and Elifinda a Second time left, in a wddow’d State; the Success She hitherto had in concealing her Intrigues, made her more venturous, not that as she increas’d in Vice she did not pretend to do foin Virtue i and that excellent Satire which the ingenious Lord Rochefier writ many Years since on a Lady of the same amp, may justly be apply M to Elifinda.
So well the Spirit and the Elefih agy ee,
Lufi and Devotion, Zeal and Letchery;
Of what important Use religions made By those that wisely drive the cheating Pradel As Wines prohibited securely pafs.
Changing the Name of their own native Place.
(Tlif   19
SO Vice grows safe, drefs*d in devotions Name, unqueftion*d by the cufiom house of Fame,
where ever so much sahbityyou see.
Be more suspicious of hid Villainy :
whose ever*s Zeal is than his Neighbours more.
If Man, fufpeb him Rogue; if Woman, W ■
Her next Lover, for it would be endiels to relate all the Rencounters she and sta niffa had with accidental ones, was a broken Tradesman, the Excess of whose Lewdness had ruin’d his Fortune. I there be anything in Sympathy, of which the Ingenious have writ so many learned Volumes, it is certain she felt ail its Power on the sight of Lhomafo, who happen’d to be talking to her lace man, as she pafs’d by in her Chariot; yet, in that slight view, he made too great an Impresiion for her to refill the newborn Desire Ihe had to know him. She hopp’d her Coach (perceiving he left the Person he was talking to, without minding her;) and under pretence of having some Lace sent to ' her, enquir’d who he was that then parted from him : But on hearing his wicked Character, Ihe exprefs’d her Detestation in such Terms, as could leave no suspicion of her Inclinations. And having learned as much of him as fly wanted, soon went to the most distant Part of the Tawn from where she dwelled, in a Habit that fhew’d more of plain Plenty, than the Grandeur she liv’d in; Sending from a publickhoufe to speak with him, at first pretending some trifling Business, where she entertain’d him so well, he was not long insensible of her Meaning, the Ouicknefs of his
^0 Shep R U D E.
Parts lying chiefly that way; who was fb successful in the happy Art of pleaflng her, that three whole Days and Nights were employ’d in Love, before they could resolve to part : all which time, Stanijfa was left to the care of amusing her People with her being out of town. Ac parting, she gave him a Purse, in which was a liberal Present to his Wants; then fettling Affairs so, as often to meet by appointment, still taking care to supply him with just enough to support him, but nothing more; whilst the expectation of attaining to higher Pay, made him do Wonders in her Service.
One Evening, as they were abed, she happening to fall asleep, he softly flip’d her Pockets from under the Pillow, where she always carefully laid them. The Motive which induc’d him to do it, was, to inquire the strength of her Purse, that accordingly he might enlarge his Distresses; where he found, to his great Amazement, a Letter directed to Elijinda, with the Copy of her Answer, in the same hand she used to write to him; the light of which caus’d him to fancy his broken Fortune reftor’d with advantage, though Experience convinc’d him otherwise. With great Caution he laid the Pockets from whence he took them, resolving certainly to know if she was really Elijinda, before he would discover his knowledge to her, till then never taking her for better than a rich tradefman’s Wise, which she by a thousand Artifices had endeavour’d to make him believe, enlarging on the Difficulties with
'' ' which
4 _

which (he struggled to procure him so much Money.
Phomafo did not rest after this Discovery, till he enquir’d what Church she used, it being impossible for him to see her in any other place; when he was soon convinc’d Elifinda and his unknown Mistress were the fame: which put all his little Wits to work, to contrive how he Should acquaint her with his knowledge of it, being fenlible she would be irreconcilably angry w’ith him, should Ihe mistrust his presuming to touch her Purse;;
great an Awe had the power of her Gold over him, contrary to the Nature of his Sex.
But in the midst of these Meditations, he was unhappily feiz’d by a Creditor, and clapped into Prison, where he Soon made a Confidant, to whom he imparted this Secret; it being often the nature of wiser People than himself, in deep Distresses, to lay open all their Affairs and Expectations, in hopes to find in others that lucky Advice they imagine themselves incapable of. He was persuaded, the speediest way of redress would be to send directly to Elifinda: And that the Reader may have a better Idea of this pious lady’s Taste in a Lover, the following Words are exactly the same which he ' sent to her on this occasion.
I
Dear and highly honom*d Lady,
I Hope your charming, charitable Ladyship will pardon this Presumption in your ‘ profound Adorer, for Sending So directly *' to your good Ladyship. My detar Maranda,
f o 1t71^ dr fk X ^ ^ _ t
21 sthe  .
* ceal’d this pleasing Secret in my Bread:, for ‘ fear of offending my lovely Cyprian queen, by
* letting her know herdivinity was reveal’d to
* her Adorer; which now, by an unhappy
* embaralsment, I am forc’d to divulge to your
* fair Ladyship, because I fear so much time
* would elapse, as might make an Eclat a
* my Ceditors, on hearing of my un
* fortunate Seizure, which happen’d Yester
* exactly at the Hour of One, should I have ‘ staid till I had let my dear Maranda know
* this cruel Disaster, which must inevitably
* detain her dying Lover from her, with every
* tender extatick Rapture, which she can so
* elegantly distinguish: Unless my shining
* will stir up in your Ladyship the
* remembrance of those thrilling Joys, which, ‘ Itruft, will incline your Ladyship to pity 5 this unhappy Catastrophe in the State of,
%
Tour Confiant,
And Pajjionate Adorer
Thomaso^
* P. S. The Debt is Thirty Pounds: Dear
‘ charitable Lady, don’t let me stay a ‘ Moment after the receipt of this, but * conftder my uneasy Languishment, till ‘ I see your adorable Self.’
Had Elifinda been struck indeed with a Thunder bolt, she could not have been more stupidly amaz’d, than for sometime she was on reading this Letter; when a little reco »

vered, she went immediately to her usual Oracle, to consult what was to be done. sta nijfa, who was never pleased with this Intrigue, told her, she look’d on his finding her to be Elijinda, as the most unfortunate Accident that could befall her. Your Reputation, said sloe, now lies at the mercy of a needy Fool, whose Vanity, you may depend on it, will expose you to the inferior World of his Acquaintance; and, if you do not Supply his Wants more largely than you have hitherto done, will do Some impudent thing to blaze you amongst those of your own Sphere. Elifinda, extremely griev’d and perplex’d, reply’d. Reproaches are in vain, let us try, with our best Skill, to manage this Affair: which, whether it was owing to her Tenderness for him, or her Fear, She was for having done by gentle Means. Stanijfa violently oppos’d her owning herself to him. After much debating, it was refolv’d Elijinda should order the Melfenger to be sent for up, and Stanijja representing her, answer him; which Ihe did, by telling the Bearer the Person was either mistaken, or out of his Senses;; on hearing his unfortunate Circumstances, to Soften the Rigour of her other Treatment, she bellow’d a handsome Charity on him, still enlisting on the Mistake, though she kept the Letter.
phomafo*s high flown Hopes were all dif pers’d when the Melfenger return’d with this account: Sometimes he thought of flying out, and openly exposing her; but there was Danger in this Attempt, besides it would get no
F Gold,
54 Lhe
Gold, which was his only Aim. However,
before he could fix on what to do, Elifinda, never designing to let him run to Extremes, went to the House where they should have met by appointment, had not this Accident happen’d to him; and, showing a very great Uneasiness at his not coming, sent to inquire for him, where she imagin’d soonest to hear of his Misfortune; which having learned, she immediately difpatch’d a Letter to him, bemoaning, in very tender Terms, his unhappy Fortune, promising all her Asiiftance, at the same time complaining how little was in her power, tho’ nothing she could do should be wanting.
thisfurpriz’d ihomafo to such adegree, that he doubted his Eyes, and all his Senses; not but it convinc’d him, to continue his knowledge of Elifinda, would lose him the Friendship of Maranda, whose Favours he was forc’d to receive, as she was pleas’d to bestow ’em, in the desperate State he was at present. After she had amus’d him for above twenty days with Hopes and Fears, with much pretended difficulty she at last releas’d him, on condition he would quit the Kingdom; with an additional Sum which she gave him, that she might have time to recruit this extreme Expense, as She said, before he went. She took her leave of him, without seeming to have the least knowledge of the Letter sent to Elifinda; which he, for fear of giving offence, made no mention of. They parted from each other with all the tender Endearments usual between the fondest Lovers;
Sta

Stanijfa, in her great Regard, feeing him safe on board.
.. Th is happen’d nigh the time when Emelia
and Bellamira came to town to stay the sea fon, Emelia s regard for that young Lady having drawn her thither, which she had'not been nieh for fifteen Months before; and if the Adventure of Polonius made any impref lion on them, in relation to Lysander, it had more powerful Effects on Elijinda, on his own Score, who was so extremely charm’d with his agreeable Confidence, as she term’d it, that no respect to her idol Reputation could in the least refill: her impetuous Inclination. Stanijfa, violently against it, laid open to her, in vain, all the Difficulties: He will infallibly know you, said that subtle Woman; and, with pride, blaze such a Conquest, by which you will fall beneath the most despicable of those Follies you have treated with so severe a Contempt in others. But Elifinda, who had as exquisite a Taste of Variety as any of the gay Beau Monde Sparks, cry’d. Let me but polsefs him once, and I shall be fatisfy’d : Is there no contrivance for that once — — Stanijfa perceiving it in vain to oppose her, see her working Brains to find the securest Means; at length, hitting on the lucky Opportunity, the Masquerade, they resolved to make that the Place of Encounter; not but the Design was at first a little dampt, by the Ladies intending to be there, as has been mention’d before; which they soon got over, by concluding in so vast a Crowd, assisted by her dif guiie, it would be impossible for her to b'
'' 2 diftiur
^6 Lhe
diftinguifh’d. Thus full of their Design, on the Day fix’d for the Mafyuerade, immediately after dinner, they retir’d to elijindd.s Country Seat; where, being arriv’d. Orders were given to be deny’d to all Visiters: and a Maid, that by this time was let into part of the Secret, was left to amuse the Servants with their being only with drawn to their Chambers for that Evening; when, in another Press, they siip’d out at the back Door, returning to town in a Hack, to a House she kept for these Designs.
Where, whilst Elijinda was employ’d in disguising herself with all the advantage that Art or Fancy could invent, to charm the Ties and Heart of him that daily wanton’d midst the Select Beauties of a whole Nation, Stanijfa was bulled with the care of delivering Polonius a Letter. In a Hack, she went directly to the Place where he dwelled; which, admitting neither Masque nor Porters to enter, oblig’d her to inquire without, where possibly he could be found. The person then jn waiting, to whom She happen’d to apply, being better acquainted with his Clothes than his Person, told her, that, not three Minutes since, he saw' hini go out of a Coach Into a House he pointed her to.
On hearing this, she order’d to be drove So nigh to the Place, that she fancy’d ftie Taw him through the Window j and, pleasm ■vyith so Ipcky an Opportunity of meeting him, immediately sent in ehjinda*s Letter, yvith a Present; and, without staying for an
Answer, flew to her with the successful News
.. ... ......
  37
of having deliver’d it as she imagin’d. Burr, by an unhappy Mistake for the pious Dame, it was Lysander that receiv’d it, who happen’d to be drefs’d in a rich Habit, for the Masquerade, of the same Colour which Poloniums Clothes were of, that he had on that Day: and, by an odd Chance, whilst the Milliner was mixing Ribbons and Feathers Suitable to his Dress.. came to this House to call on a Friend that intended to accompany him to the Mask, ', ordering the Milliner to send the things after him. And if his Dress occalion’d sta nijfa*s Mistake, the Present which Elifinda sent with the Letter, to prevent Polonius from taking her for a common Intriguer, caus’d Lysander to open the Letter, believing it some trifling Direction with the Feathers, where he found these words in French, as nigh as the Tranflacion can render them.
To the too Charming POLONIUS.
‘ T) IT Y a Stranger, who has strove in ‘ jl vain to guard the Accelfes of her ‘ Heart against your conquering Eyes, and ‘ every engaging Look. Sure Love has form’d ^ you all o’er for Delights, nor am I in ‘ ienfible you are acquainted with all the ‘ various Joys that Deity can profusely be ^ then refill not his Summons, who * courts you still to new Pleasures. Yes, ‘ Love conjures you to haste away, the i vanquilh’d intreats you would diftinguilh
‘ her
Lhe  .
‘ her Conqueror at the Masque tonight by ‘ this Trifle; which she drefs’d with plea
* in hopes to have it worn by the ‘ loveliefl; Youth that e’er adorn’d a Court;
* where if you can permit a Stranger the least ‘ Corner in your Heart, already environ’d by
* the hostile Fair, fhe’ll, unrelifting, yield to! your victorious Arms.’
Lysander immedxattly, on reading it, perceiv’d the Mistake, tho’too late to be re drefs’d, and, with a Curiosity peculiar to Youth in Love Intrigues, began to examine the Present, which prov’d a Cap So richly adorn’d, as could not cost less than thirty Pieces. This rais’d in him an uncommon Desire to know the lavish Donor, being fenlible it could come from none whose. Fortune was not at least considerable. This caus’d' him to wonder they would trust their Reputations with Polonius, which he refolv’d, by the Asiiftance of the Cap, to represent j and making the usual Excuse of Business to his Friend, which this Letter had given him notice of, left him; a second time changing his Habit for the Masquerade, taking care, as nigh as possible, to resemble Polonius, which was easy to be done, their Shape and Height being very like: which caus’d him to be late before he came to the Mask, where the only Object that fix’d his Kt
Bellamira; Ariana having shown him her Dress, by which he might know the other who was to be with her. But
he needed not to have had that Notice,
his
i I
$
Shep R U D E.’ 59
his Eyes and Heart were too well acquainted with all her Charms, not easily to di ftinguilh her from the whole Company; who was drefs’d like a Shepherdess in a beautiful grafs green Satin, trim’d with Silver: The Sleeves and Shape being close, so exactly fitted her fine turn’d Limbs, as fhew’d them a ma fterpiece of nature’s Work. On her Head was fix’d a little green Hat somewhat aside, the other part being fet out with Flowers, whilst her abundance of lovely light brown Hair was ty’d back with Ribbons, the Ornaments and talsels intermixing with it, which fell down low as her Waist in a natural Ring; but the lelfer Curls by the help of gentle Zephyrs wanton’d on her Neck, too exquisitely for saint defcrip tion to give the least Idea of its unparallel’d Beauty. To all which Charms were join’d Such a resistless Air and unaffected Motion, that all the Company beheld her with a pleas’d Amazement; whilst Lysander, too well acquainted with the matchless Face the envious Mask conceal’d, gaz’d on her with a motion,, Surprise, the manner of her Dress disclosing ten thousand Charms, which till then had pafs’d unheeded by even the Eyes of inquiring Love.
The Letter and Present were quite ba ilifh’d his Thoughts, wholly polsefs’d by Bellamira i nor was it possible to refill: the Desire he had of engaging that lovely Maid into a Conversation;; sight of her uncommon Charms railing his Passion to such Height, he found Words yet form’d too poor to express any part ot the passionate tender Sentiments
I
40
of his Soul i And approaching her with a trembling cautious Respect, which he strove to mix with an Air of Gallantry, said. Madam, your Appearance is too Celestial not to create a Desire in a presumptuous Mortal to entreat you would let him know by the Name of what Deity he ought to address to you his humble Adorations.
I am a simple Shepherdess, that tend a few harmless Sheep, replied Bellamira; and as such you treat me, to imagine I have the Folly to hear a Compliment so like Ridicule, without a Frown. How can the loveliest of her Sex, since you are a Mortal) nnfwer*d Lysander, be So cruel to think that any who behold the matchless Wonders of your Beauty, would treat you with, aught but the softest, tenderest transports of respectful Love? Bellamira, fur priz’d as the passionate manner with which he utter’d these Words, said. You talk of Love with too much Skill for a silly Shepherdess to understand you. No, reply d Lysander, (seizing her gently by her Garments, as she was withdrawing from him) you have made me too Senfibie how little Skill I have, that cannot persuade you even to hear the humblest ad dreftes of a Heart, however you use it, as inevitably fix’d to your every Perfection, as the Loadstone is to its known Pole. Perhaps, Madam, conunvd he, perceiving her uneasy. Fate may never give me another happy Moment to Speak the Anguish of my Soul; but where ever I carry this wretched Load of Earth, no Tiirie, no Place can rafe your lovely Idea from
my
Shep, RUDE. 41
. my Breast;; too Ilrongly imprinted there, for aught but Death to efface.
Scarce did Ihe hear him out, when turning from him with an Air of Coldness, said. This is too particular to divert; leaving him conscious he had too Soon difcover’d his too violent Passion. Amidst ten thousand tormenting Thoughts on her Usage, and how to recover a farther Conversation, he found himself pluck’d by the Sleeve; and turning, perceiv’d it was done by a Lady richly drefs’d, with an agreeable Air, and a Neck petr fectly white, on which were difpos’d, in easy Order, trelses of dark brown Hair. She spoke to him in French, which he easily diftinguifh’d, had not the Accent of a Native, Saying, Are you not too thoughtful to suffer Company?
Lysander, who presently reflected that this Lady must be the Donor of the extraordinary Cap, reply’d. Madam, I wish you would be so obliging to convince yourself of the contrary. What I do, reaffunid she, is in mere Compassion; for, methought, you appearm too' sensibly touch’d at that hand some shepherdefs’s leaving you, and am come to tell you from the Destinies, that no friendly Star will assift you there, but eternally will meet with Opposition from a malicious Female Planet.
I begin to be of your Opinion, reply: d Lysander, only whth this Difference, that I think you fairer than it is possible for you to be malicious. To which the Lady made such advancing Replies, 'that he was present
a Ur
41 Lhe P RUDE.
ly convinc’d this was the Lady to whom he Should act the Person and languishing Air of Polonius; which he did in such lively Terms, that their Conversation was soon wound up to such a height of Obfcenenefs, as caus’d Lysander to think her too well experienc’d for any but a common Practitioner; and Sooner would have quitted her, had he not often fancy’d there was Something in the Tone he was not a Stranger to. And tho’ th is Curiosity detain’d him longer with her than any Inclination, yet he often answer’d her confus’d, his Heart and Eyes being imploy’d in looking after Bellamira, who was attack’d by a Person that seemed to make her uneasy; and expressing by many Gestures her Dislike, She at last fled to Emelia for Refuge, who accompany’d her and Ariana thither: which the Lady, that entertainm him, taking notice of, said. It is but a false Fire you express to me, all your real Love is for that Idiot Shepherdess. Too much out of humour to be on her guard, she spoke this in her own Voice, especially at the Conclusion, which Lysander immediately knew to be elijinda*s; and turning his Eyes on her, from Head to Foot, difcover’d her Height, her Shape, her Mien, all but her dark brown Hair, which he was not ignorant she might be beholden to her Tyre woman for.
It was sometime before he could do anything but look at her, which the more he did, the more he was fatisfy’d it was indeed the
pious Elifinda. What were his Thought,
in
The Jrude* 41
in those Moments, of her excelling Devotions and superior Virtues? By degrees he recover’d himself enough to renew the dif eourfe, by telling her. There appear’d so obliging a Jealousy in her last words, that he was ready to put himself in her power, and let her use what Means she pleas’d, to be fatisfy’d how much he prefer’d the sprightly Joys she could give, to those of a silly Girl.
This reftor’d her to so good a Humour, that they immediately began to treat; and, without much Ceremony, a Hackney coach was concluded t6 be the Scene of Action, on condition he would reserve the feeing her Face to the next Meeting : which, said she, I conceal now only to have still something new to entertain you with.
Lysander, who had carry’d this Affair to as great a height as he desir’d, violently oppos’d that Article, believing it the only way to escape her, the Sister of Bellamira being the last Person he was willing to enter into such a sort of Amity with. Besides, Ladies, of her coming Strain rather damp than add Fuel to the Fire.
He was not long perplex’d with the Difficulties of handsomely avoiding her, when there happen’d an Accident that effectually did it; for the Person who engag’d Bellamira, who fhunn’d him with a Disiike equal to his Desire of pursuing her, began rudely to press the feeing her Face, in the usual fool’s Cant, of / know you, and Tou need not affeb this Coyness to an old Acquain
G % tame j
44  .
tame; which she answering with a scofh full Refentmentj he insolently offer’d to force her Mask of; when Lysander, whose Eyes were perpetually on her, perceiving it, immediately flew between them, telling the insolent Ofender, that was not a Place to take such Liberty in.
- The Person, heated with Wine, which,
if possible, added to his natural fioldnefs, reply’d. And who are you that pretend ro hinder me? I am, answer*d Lysander, very ready to tell you if you’ll go hence, it not being my way to make Broils on purpose to frighten Women with the Pretences of Valour. The Company interposing, soon parted them; in the Rencounter, lyfande/s Vizard fell off, and several knew the other to be Polonius, who was forc’d, by the Command of his Friends, the next day to ask pardon, imputing his Indiscretion to the Excess of Wine he had been drinking.
Whilst Elijinda, staying where Lysander had left her, saw, to her inexpressible Grief and Confusion, all that pafs’d between them; had the Devil, in reality, appear’d with Saucer Eyes and Claws, it could not have rais’d a greater Terror in her Soul than sinding it was Lysander who wore her Present, and whom Ihe had entertain’d in Such a way. Soon' as the Quarrel was appeas’d, too much terrify’d with the Thoughts of him to have the least Design left on Polonius, She convey’d herself out of the Masque, and return’d to Stanijfa, where the Shame and Fear
of being difcover’d, join’d to her Disappointment.
Shep R u D E. 45
ment, caused her to rage beyond any Description of the Furies; she tore her Hair and wrung her Hands, calling Stanijfa betraying Slut, and all the despicable Names her Passion could invent j and so great a Quarrel arose between them, how possibly the Letter could fall into lyfandeks hands, that from Words they came to Blows; tho’ neither of their Wit or Skill could fix. on anything, but that it was no Contrivance between them, by what afterwards fell out; nor could She help resenting extremely, as Ihe ilil’d it, the saucy Neglect with which he treated her, tho’ Stanijfa strove by that to persuade her he did not know her.
The Ladies whom we Iditattho Masquerade not a little frighten’d with what befell Bellamira, immediately withdrew under the Care of Lysander;; proud and pleased with his Charge, conducted them safe home, where Emelia, in very obliging Terms, return’d him Thanks for Bellamira, expressing a great Concern for fear of a Quarrel, alfuring him of bellgrand*s Interest to make po/ow/w fenlible of his Error. Which Lysander answer’d with a. Gallantry suitable to the Occasion;; Bellamira, on whom the Discourse at the Masque, and his succeeding Action in her Defence, began to make some Impression, Said to him, as he protected her through the Crowd to her Coach, I think, Lysander, lam to be eternally indebted to you for saving me from the Insolence of Polonius. What I have now done, reply*d he, was only due to your Birth and Sex; but were it in my power, my Heart, and all the Actions
4<5
of my Life should convince you there is no danger or difficulty I would not with pleasure encounter to Serve you. Bellamira could make no Reply, the Ladies were So nigh; but neither her Looks, or Expressions, fhow’d any Resentment, nor much Encouragement 5 not but from that moment (he look’d on him as a dangerous Lover, Irom whom, if possible, she refolv’d to guard her Heart; for besides her own Inclinations, which were partial to his Perfections, the respect she had for emslia*s Judgement, caused her to think he deserved her in all Things but Fortune, which was far beneath her Birth and Expectations; yet for all that, when she did not lay a Restraint on herself, and call the Thoughts of his inferior Circumstances to her aid, she found ihe was too favourably inclined to think of him, which with a modest Reserve she strove to conceal.
Lysander on the other fide had the melancholy Thoughts, that he knew not to what all this tended, not having one Hope that could reach So high as the obtaining her in Marriage, and all other Views were impossible. Besides, his Love was mix’d with too much Honour, and tender Reflect, to have a Thought he imagined would offend or hurt her, not buc the late Carriage of Elijinda, feem’d a Contradiction to all pretences of Virtue : the Reflection of which so Surprised and startled him, that had he Seen an Angel adorn’d with all the glorious Rays of celestial Light, transform’d in a Moment to the ugliest foulest Fiend, it could not h^ve fill’d him with greater
Horror;
  47
t
Horror, so much more odious is the Discovery of Vice when hid by so fair a Semblance of Virtue. However, he refpiv’d to conceal his Knowledge of it not only from the World, but Elifinda herself; not that he trembled at her Threats pronounced under the Title of a malicious Female Planet, which tho’ defign’d against Polonius, he did not question would be fully executed against Lysander. Nor was he mistaken, for she had conceiv’d so great a Hatred to him, for his Neglect: and Infenlibility to all her profer’d Love, join’d with the fear of his having difcover’d her, that she raved with all the Grief, Despair, and Pride of an infernal Fiend. Sometimes she fancied she heard him exposing her to Emelia, and painted in her Mind all the flinging Reflection which must naturally fall on Such a Discovery of her detested Hypocrisy. sta niffa, who now with difficulty was heard, strove in vain to pacify her, by telling her should file be so unhappy as to be known to him, it was a greater Essiape than the putting herself in polonius*s power, which nothing would have reftrain’d, while the other will be silent out of his Principles of Honour, by which I know, said she, iq is strongly guided, unless he has a design to make a Merit to you in concealing this important Secret; by which means, perhaps, he may have hope to gain your Assistance in the obtaining Bellamira, with whom, if I mistake not, he is violently in lov^. That is plain, answer id Elifinda. But, continued fie, that odious Creature shall know to his .poll I will revenge the Contempt with which
,
48
he treated me, by blasting all his romantic Hopes on that unthinking Idiot. When the Violence of her Passion was somewhat abated, Stanijfa persuaded her to found Lysander, who was above such mean Artifices as the base' ' of their Mind caused them to expect from others; and by generously concealing the Knowledge from her, laid himself open to her implacable Malice.
It was three Days before they return’d to Town, where the Ladies acquainted her with the Adventures of the Masque, and what happen’d to Bellamira : On which elk finda, with her usual Reservedness, said. Would it not have been much happier, if, like me, you had refrain’d from these idle Diversions, and prevented the Noise and Scandal that it must needs make, and, perhaps, have it said, that such an insignificant person as Lysander was in love with you 1 Emelia, stung at this Discourse, as thinking it aim’d at her Conduct, who not only favour’d bel lamira*s going, but went herself; (she being one who, judging rationally, knew, too much Restraint oftener causes Youth to fly out and take Liberties unknown, more to their Prejudice, than it’s possible for them when guarded by the Presence of such as herself) answer’d Elifinda, That Lysander was too intimate a Friend to Bellgrand to create any Suspicion on his fide, and Bellamirars Conduct was un queftion’d.
She had just ended these words, when Lysander enterm/ to whom Elifinda addrefs’d Iierfelf with a more obliging Air of Freedom
The P R u D Ei
than usual in her, and Said, Lysander, I Have been hearing the frefti Obligations which; all of us have to you, in putting a Hop to the Ill manners of Polonius; and after hearing a little more of the past Actions of the Masque repeated, ask’d him, How the Lady he entertain’d, took his deserting Her, to render Bellamira that piece of Service, who, by the Description of her Dress, must be a person of Distinction. Lysander prepar’d for this Encounter, 'answer’d her courteously. He believ’d indeed by her Conversation she had been di ftinguilh’d more than was to the advantage of her Reputation, not but her Person was' very agreeable. He spoke this with So perfect an Indifference, as made Elifinda conclude he had not the least Notion of its being her j by which Ihe thought Ihe was at liberty fully tq revenge his insolent Neglect of her.
Nor was Ihe long without the Opportunity an Incident happening that deftroy’d all the Scenes Lysander had laid to eftablilh a Friendship with that Family; The Marriage between Bellgrand and Ariana had hitherto gohe on with such Success, as if it were not in the power of Fortune to prevent it: But that fickle Goddess now thought it time to Show a little of her Instability;; one Morning, before Bellgrand had quitted his Chamber a Letter was brought him up, which prov’d ',
a Challenge from a Gentleman, named horn y/«r, who claim’d arianaany a pre contract, demanding of Bellgrand either to resign her, or give him the Satisfaction of a Gentleman; ending the Letter with menacing that no Restraint
H should
50
should oppose his Revenge, if refused both. Bellgrand, who was inclined to do neither, was So alarm’d with the Conclusion, that the Blood ran cold to his Heart, and paleness covering his Face, as if Homrius, with Death, had already been there j \ which Elijinda, who was in the Chamber, perceiving, prefs’d to know” what it was that had caused so great a change sin his Looks. He immediately acquainted her, consulting what he should do, being conscious the Figure Homrius lately made, claimed, according to the general Opinion, the Satisfaction he requir’d, or to resign Ariana; and Ihe happen’d to be too agreeable and too great a Fortune for him easily to part with, and Fighting was wtiat he cared less for: All which Elijinda perceiving, whose Pride made her careful for the Honour and Interest of her Family, was as unwilling as he to part with Arh anas Fortune, though she did not Spare to lash her Severely on this occasion;; was she less concern’d how to evade the Scandal of his refusing Homrius: And having already form’d a confused Bcheme in her subtle Brains, only wanted Stanijfa to contrive the putting it in practice. She bid Bellgrand answer the Challenge, appointing the Time as far distant as the nature of such a thing could bear, alfuring him she would prevent their Meeting, though she would not let him into her Design, saying. It, might be inconsistent with his Honour to know itj which, Heaven is my Witness, added jhe, I do to prevent the Crime of Murder, which would fill me with a double Horror, to have any of my Family ftain’d with it. Ending
with
  51
with this pious Speech the Conversation, She withdrew to Stanijfa, to consult the putting in execution her Design; having remember’d that not long since, she had told her a Relation of hers was like to Suflfer very much by trusting Homrius, he having laid down his Equipage, and withdrawn from the troublesome Dun of his Creditors. This Elijinda laying hold on. Sent Stanijfa to buy the Debt in the Name of a Person unknown to their Family, and at the very Place defign’d for the Rencounter, as the greater Affront, had him arrested.
Never was any Diffraction equal to horn riufs on this unhappy seizure, though he did not fail to tell Bellgrand, not to think of eccaping, for were it a thousand Years, his Revenge would still be alive to pursue him; who now Smiled at his Threat; For though he had not Malice, or Skill enough to put this in practicie, yet applauded it done; not at all believing himself obliged to wait the Leisure of the Unfortunate. Whilst Homrius, doubly opprefs’d by Love and Fortune, as soon as he could compose himself to think at all. Sent for Lysander, (whom from his Childhood he had been intimately acquainted with) and in the most moving terms related his Misfortune, and the Falsehood of Ariana; assuring him they had long since been Solemnly contracted to each other, though, continued he, it’s now above a Month since I either could receive a Line, or obtain the least Answer to any of my pressing Entreaties, which I imaginm was only owing to Some Humour : till going to my Lawyer about bufiness, which he excus’d the not having done, by informing me of the hurl
o rt
^
ry he was in to draw up the Writings for this Marriage, it was Some time before I could believe him, till he gave but too convincing Proofs. Heave you to judge, purfu*d the unfortunate Homrius, what must be the tormenting State of my Soul, who cannot tear her frorn my Heart, false and unworthy as she is! I know, added he, it is a Weakness below the fondest Folly in a Woman, but I cannot help it; in vain do I struggle, she is riveted here, said he, pointing to his Breafi, too fast for aught but gloomy Shades of eternal Night to extinguish. Here he ftop’d, as seeming to be too far o’er charg’d with, Qrief and Shame to proceed; whilst Lysander heard him with a generous Concern, as having been the ignorant
cause of his Misfortune, not imagining in the least he had engaged so deeply with that lovely, Lady; ctho he was not without his Suspicions,
that formerly he made her Some Addresses, which he thought were ceas’d with his declining Circumstances: : whom on this Occasion, he did not fail to offer all the Assistance of a sincere Friendship, in wssiat concern’d his Love or Fortune. Which Homrius accepted, entreating him to try, if it was possible to regain the Heart of that sickle Lady. Who readily comply’d, though he very much doubted the succeeding;; being ignorant of her Turn of Temper, For never any of her inconstant Sex had so great an Inclination to Coquetry as She, Nature having furnifh’d her with every agreeable Charm, fit to accomplish her always Successful mischiefsj for besides a Person ex iremely handsome, there was Something in her
Air
fhefrvde. 5|
Air and Sprightly Eyes inexprellibly inviting, to which was join’d a most entertaining Wit, mix’d with so soft a Flattery, as charm’d all who heard her, whilst she fill’d them with delightful Ideas of themselves; But these in gauging Humours would vary like Aprifs fairest Days to cloudy Storms and chilling Winds, that the Lover, who one day was wrap’d in a thousand pleasing Hopes, which she knew hpw modestly to insinuate, perhaps the ensuing Morn found his warmest Transports blasted by Sullen Frowns, and so frozen a Neglect, as would drive out Love and his fiery Arrows, by uneasy Doubts, and all the Damps x)f cold Despair. But though this Usage had worn out the Constancy of many an attempting Hero, yet honoriud.s steady Love was proof against every changing Humour; and indeed So violent was his Passion for that lovely Inconstant, that it seem’d deftin’d by irresiftible Fate; he having, before he came acquainted with this Lady, an Estate that amonglf the highest Rank of Mankind claim’d the Respect due to a Gentleman, which a cold Look from her would make him lavish out in rich Presents, which for that time obtain’d a favourable Reception, who never exprefs’d the least Hint or Desire to any Sort of Diversion, let it be ever so Expensive, that he did not So extravagantly heighten, as both surpriz’d and charm’d her. Which she did not fail to return with the most Solemn, endearing afsurances of her Affection, till she found he was undone, and then by degrees grew cold; and Bellgrand was too tempting a Bait for her Ambition, not to resolve entirely
to
54
to shake off this generous, unhappy Lover, which she imagin’d she could with eafeaccom plifli, being a perfect Mistress of her own Actions, ^ having no Mother, and a Father infinitely fond of so engaging a Wit in an only Child, indulg’d her in everything she feem’d to like.
When Lysander told her of homrius*s Misfortune, she heard him with the Same Indifference as if he had related a melancholy Story of some Stranger; which he perceiving with Indignation, endeavour’d to rouse her by putting her in mind, how fatal it might prove to her future Peace with Bellgrand; but it had no other effect, than after a little pause, she resuming the Discourse, Said, Homrius has deceiv’d me, I always thought I was too Secure in his Love, ever to Sufpect he would do anything prejudicial to my Repose or Honour.
Lysander, not a little amaz’d at her odd way of Reasoning, let fall Some Expressions which ftiew’d how much he thought her in the wrong, to have So cruelly deluded him as she had done, and then imagine any Tenderness or Respect could restrain So justa Resentment as was due to his Injuries. But that Lady by no Arguments could be brought in the least to Seem to understand reason, and only concluded all lyfander*s disputes thus j That if the Return of Homrius's Presents, or the Value, would be of any Service, she would ren der them back, on condition he would never See, write, or Speak to her more.
Which dismal Account of her Ingratitude ind Falsehood, when Homrius heard from
Lysander.
fhevvivdel 55
Lysander, he broke out into Such violent Lranlports of Rage and Grief, as it wanted ittle of eternally depriving him of his reason: : raged, he ftorm’d, he Swore, he rail’d, : alling her ten thousand times perfidious, deceiving, base, unworthy, all the Names his anger could fugged: : But in vain. Love was fill predominant, that soft Passion had Seized with all its Subtlety too Securely on his Heart, for any Injuries to rase. Sometimes he vow’d : o tear her from her husband’s Arms, and commit unheard of Murders, and then in the ext Moment would entreat Lysander to ga igain, and try if her fickle Heart was not by this time changed into more favourable Senr fiments for him. I know, added he, her only ault is want of Steadiness, and, perhaps, by this time, Ihe may repent, and return to her Faith, her Vows, and all her enchanting ten dernefles, by which Ihe has Subtily wound herself into my Heart, as fatal ever to be fever’d, as the Lifeblood that wantons in it. Lysander, who found all persualion of railing up his Courage, nd striving to forget her, of no effect:, ' promis’drhe next Morning a second time to attack her more closely, which could not be done that Night, it was So late; and the impatient Lover, to whom Ariana had made soft Rest and Happiness a Stranger, after revolving a thousand different distracting Thoughts how to retrieve or bring back her Heart, at last refolv’d to send her a Letter, and with the Impatience that attends a Mind raised in such an Uproar, unhing’d to all Reason, he gave positive Ordersto the Bearer to deliver it ifpossi
ble»
‘ «
5d Life  .
ble, and not return without ah Answer. Accordingly the Melfenger carried it to Ariana, who was in her sweet Morning slumbers, with her Repose little broke about him; and it happening to be the Day in‘which her Father had promised to meet Bellgrand to lign the Marriage writings, he rose sooner than usual, and accidentally being in a Parlour next the Hall, heard homrius*s Melfenger press very earnestly to have the Letter deliver’d, w\dc\i ariana*s Maid refused to take; saying. She wonder’d the Gentleman would be so troublesome, knowing her Lady had long forbid her receiving any Messages, or Letters from him. This rais’d a Curiosity in Le Merchant to come out, and ask. Some Questions; and finding the Maid fur
priz’d, and would fain evade and divert him, he took the Letter, and opening it, read the following Lines :
BO NO RIUS to the Perfidious
JRIANM
ltsander*s Surprising Confirmation of your inhuman Inconstancy, has ‘ filled my Soul with every tormencingpafsion; ‘ Love, Anger, and Resentment, alternately * prey on my vital Spirits, and will Soon free ‘ you from the now hated Homrius; yet e’er * Distraction, or more kind Death, divide me * for ever from the falsest of her Sex, I would ‘ fain know what Excuse your cruel Heart ‘ can find for driving the most sincere and ‘ most passionate of Lovers thence. Ungratc ‘ full Maid! take heed, be not tooafh; Re
  57
% •
* pentance may come too late, reflect before
* you give your self to Bellgrand: you are ‘ already mine by solemn Contract, and be ‘ lieve that e’er long the Guilt of your per ‘ jured Vows will embitter all your now ‘ promis’d Joys with him wssiom Ariana must
* be fenlible is too great an Admirer of
* himself to love her as I have done, who have ‘ given up every Joy and Hope in Life, and long,
^ long delighted in nought but the Thoughts ‘ of her: This but too well knows, and
‘ yet she would meanly bribe.me, with the re
* of what was only valuable to me, be ‘ cause possessed by her, to quit a Claim,
‘ which (false as you are) not all the inviting ‘ Charms of your varying Sex, attended with
* Wealth and Power, could create a Thought ‘ of refiginng the least part of my Title, regi ‘ fter’d in Heaven too secure for her to tear ‘ from thence; Then think how often you ‘ have sworn by that Power, that not even ‘ your Father, whose Anger you dread a ‘ above all things, should hinder you from be ‘ ing eternally mine; think on your thousand ‘ soft endearing Vows, by which, with bitter ‘ Imprecations, you have curs’d that beau
* Frame, if e’er you proved false to '
* me: Take heed, the avenging Powers may ‘ one day remember, when you’ll in vain ‘ turn those lovely Eyes to Heaven' for Con ‘ solation. Peace, or Blessings, whilst there
* lives on Earth So lost, so miserable a Wretch, as your forsaken.
.
I
58 Shep rude;
3
5 P. S. Whatever regard my Love may'
, ‘ have to you, don’t think but 1 will
/ ‘ write my "Injuries in the Heart of
‘ that Robber, that Invader of my Right,
‘ Bellgrand I
Le Merchant read this Letter with an a ftonifhment natural to a Father, that never had suspected his Daughter guilty of such an Indiscretion. The Confidence he. always had in her Conduct, caus’d him to leave her the entire Mistress of her own Actions; the oftener he look’d it o’er, the more he was incens’d against her. As to Honorius, whom he scarce knew, though he resented his De jsign on his Daughter without his Knowledge or Approbation, yet he could not help being a little couch’d with Compassion for a Love so violent, rrjix’d with so deep a Despair.
Le Merchant was a plain Man, and all the Actions of his Life were accompany’d with Sincerity and Virtue : This caus’d him to dread, much more than Anana, the Vengeance with which Honorim threaten’d her Perjuries. What most furpriz’d him, was her willing nefs to marry Bellgrand; and yet having given the other such favourable Proofs of Love, as Oaths and solemn Vows, at first he thought to have vented all his Anger on his guilty Daughter; burr, on more calm Reflection, he imagin’d he should discover little Truth from her: and bndfmg Lysander Name mention’d in the Letter, he refblv’d from him to learn how far her Folly had
carry’d

carrym her in this Affair j and sending an Excuse to Bellgrand, went himself to Lysander, whom he conjur’d very earnestly to acquaint him with all he knew concerning them; which the other did in Terms so advantageous sir the unfortunate Lover, as caus’d the indulgent Father to fall into a Passion, mix’d with as much Grief as Anger, saying. Is it possible that what you tell me Should be true? that my Daughter should so unworthily have contracted her,, to an undone Man, who lays his Rum to her Charge, and without Che becomes a Partner of his indigent Fortune, must not only be efleendd, but be in reality the basest of her Sex?
Lysander, added he, who would be a Father? I thought Ariana never would have given me Cause of Grief or Discontent i how has she lost, in one moment, my Value, my: Confidence, the fond Pleasure with which I flatter’d my self, she was Miftref^ of too much Sense to fall into those Follies, which I often found perplex’d other Parents? What shall I do, continu*d he, Homrius has already expos’d her to Bellgrand, and now if he accepts her, it will be only for her Fortune 1 that gilded Bait once fecur’d, he may make this a Pretence to use her ill.
Very probable, reply*d Lysander, for however busy I have been in promoting that Marriage, yet, in Justice now, I cannot think Ariana ought to proceed; besides, his Pretences are strong enough to create her a great deal of Trouble, unless he can be pre
I a vailed
do
vailed on to resign her, which I believe impossible. And what, answer*d Le Merchant An a Rage, does that extravagant Bankrupt hope i’ll give my Consent, or Daughter, as a Recompense for the lavish Follies with which he has enchanted her?
Lysander neard him without Interruption, till the first transport of his Passion was a little abated; and tsien reafl'uming the Discourse, said, I do not wonder, Monsieur Le Merchant, that the Solidity of your Judgement, and the steady Virtue by which you have fteer’d all your Actions, Should be shaken on so emergent an Occasion as this, where paternal tenderness for an only Child opposes all you can think or do in favour of an unhappy Man; but give me leave to Speak my Sentiments, who am disinterested, or, is Interest could byass me, it would be ta accomplish the Marriage of Bellgrand.
: I cannot reflect on this lady’s solemnly deluding Homrius into so desperate a Ruin,
'that not only his past but future Fortune, is just on the point of being cruelly wreck’d, by the faithless Hopes of her dissembled Love — At these Words, Le Merchant hastily interrupting him, Said, What are those Hopes you mention, so nigh being deftroy’d? That of an Uncle, reply*d Lysander; who, hearing how wildly he has squander’d his own Estate on this fond Passion, is refolv’d to prevent the using his in the same manner, by cutting off the Intail, and is come to town to Settle it on a younger Brother of Homrius.
i
Berg
fhe^kvde. 6i
Here Le Merchant inquiring the Value of the Estate, and finding it considerable, though not at all equal to his daughter’s, fell into a more particular Inquiry of his Temper, Principles, and Genius; all which Lysander answer’d, in a manner that fhew’d he interested himself in the Misfortunes of this ill ufed Lover, telling the Father they were acquainted from their early Youth; where, on all Occasions, he fhew’d a much sweeter dis pofition, than, most of his Companions, and had a Wit diverting, without any Taint of Satyr : and though, on several Occasions, he had given unquestionable Proofs of his Courage, yet he always found him readier to receive, than give offence : And he was, added ' he, generous without Extravagance, till he came acquainted with your fair Daughter; but from that moment he metamorphosed himself into everything he thought would make him agreeable in the Eyes of that charming Lady j gay Equipage, Balls, and Entertainments went on in a Round of Pleasure. I often,. purfu d Lysander, wonder’d at the Change, but never knew the cause, till I heard it from himself in the wretched Place where he is; and indeed were you now to behold the Change from the gayest, the agree ableft, and sweetest Temper to the racking Despair, the piercing Sorrow, and the most forlorn Melancholy that e’er poffefs’d the Soul of Man; he talks, he raves, he thinks of nothing but Ariana: And so great a power,
I fear, continud he, she has over his Spirits,
that her Loss will deprive him of his Reason.
6l The  .
Son. Le Merchant, who began to be mov’d at this Relation, said. Let us talk no more, but go and see this unhappy Man: with which Lysander, with no little Pleasure, comply’d.
They found him traversing his narrow Bounds with the Reftlesihefs that attends an afflicted Mind; though he was surpriz’dv to see Arianars Father, yet he was too much prefs’d by his Woes once to reflect, whether he came, to complete his Misery, or cause a more happy Turn in his Fate. Le Merchant accosted him whth a Softness not usual in Fathers. on such Occasions; and Said, Sir, I find by this Letter, (which he held in his Hand) you have long had Designs on my Daughter j which, I think, would have been very proper to have acquainted me with; who you ought to have confider’d, ■ have a right to difpose of her, and without whose Consent your Hopes were very ill grounded. Sir, reply*dhowonus, had I had any other view, than obtaining the Heart of that too a greeable Lady, I should have addrefs’d myself to you. I believe, refum*d the Father, somewhat quick, you expected her Person' ' my Indulgence to follow this Heart with a Fortune. No, answerd Honorius, 'Heaven is my Witness, that whilst Fortune savour’d my Hopes, I often urged her to be mine, without the least view of what might ensue: : how, miserable as I am, I would not have her abandon her Interest in you, because cruel Fate has deprived me of every Means, except my unbounded Love, to recompense the Obligation. Why then, added he, gm I angry
with
1
  62
... V ^
with her because She is to be another’s? Np
continued he. whatever Anpuifll I suffer for
^ <1 ' * ' 4 ^ "
her Loss, in whom I have centred all and every Hope of Happiness, let not your dis pleafure fall on her on my unhappy'uccourt; no, inconstant as she is, I cannot bear the Thought, that her gentle Nature should be rufiled by so terrible an Affliction as I know her father’s Anger must needs prove. How is it polflble She should bear it, furfued he, when my rough Nature finks beneath the weight
Here his Speech faulter’d, and he ftagger’d backwards into his Chair all o’er convuls’d with trembling Agonies, nothing being more delightful to Parents, than perceiving in o thers the same Tenderness which they find in themselves for their Children. That palflo nate Care which the too generous Homrius en prelsed in persuading Le Merchant not to pour the Effects of his Anger on Ariana, wrought so powerfully on the Mind of the Father, that he wanted little of declaring, she is yours with my All: However, he softened hi Resentment, and in very obliging Terms, began to inquire into every Transaction that happened between them; which Homrius could not be prevail’d on to give him any Light into, until he had first obtain’d a Promise from Le Merchant not to be angry with his Daughter, nor upbraid her on his score for whatever was past; and then (tho’ with much difficulty) by the Persuasion of Lysander, he put into his hands a Packet of Letters, and the
Contract he had receiv’d from her, at different
^
d4
times. The first the Father look’d on was in these Words:
i
ARIAKA to HOKORIUS.
t
Nothing could please me more
than your Present, except the Contrivance which you have laid for my feeing you * tonight: As soon as Daddy is retired to his ‘ Chamber, i’ll fly to you; but don’t let the Italian Imp fing any more, her Eyes are too ‘ fine : methoughts whilst that enchanting Pipe of hers exerted all its Harmony, my Hoiiorius gaz’d too attentively, yet Nicolins ^ has offended neither. I am just going to dress, but have loiter’d the whole Morn with looking on the Nosegay you senti like your Fancy prodigiously;; the Flowers, the Pearls and Diamonds have * a mighty agreeable Shake, and tremble ‘ like the dewdrops on the gay Beauties of the Spring; I shall wear your Present * but shan’t be able to look in the glass, without thinking on Homrius, which ' will make me melancholy till I see you.
?
Adieu till Night.
ARIANA.
1
On
I '
The V D R. 6^
■ On reading the latter part of this Letter, Le Merchant Said with Astonishment, Was it you that gave her that rich Nosegay, why this cunning, this deceiving, this covetous — I donct know what to call her, came with it to my Chamber, and exprefs’d so great a liking to it, that imagining it would vex her to be disappointed of it, I gave her fifty Pieces to purchase it, besides what Ihe said she would add out of her own Allow ance. I remember well, answer*d Lysander, I saw Honorius pay four times that Sum, telling me Ariana desired him to buy it, because his Skill in Jewels was superior to hers. it’s true, anfwdpd Honorius, but why Should we talk of could it become any one better than it did her? Le Merchant continuing to look on the Papers, read the following out aloud, as desiring to have some Particulars explain’d.
To,, ...,;.,
JR IJ Iff J to the Faithless
HONORIUS.
‘ T F Showing an intolerable Uneasiness, ‘ X when' alarm d with the Fear of losing ‘ what you only pretended to love, were ‘ Signs of your being violently touch’d with ‘ that Passion, no one has given greater Proofs ‘ that way than yourself; and yet Honorius ‘ thinks itinot hing to sting me to the Heart, ‘ by caressing that. insipid Heap of Folly La ‘ dy M — — all the time I was present. ‘ I despife you more for your odious Fancy
K in
66 Shep R U D E.
‘ in choosing her, than your insolent Neg ‘ lect of me, If Jewels and Jointure has ‘ wrought this Change in your fickle Heart, ‘ Ariana may one day seem as fair in your ‘ Judgement, as her comely Ladyship. I ‘ could tear my Eyes out for Showing this ‘ Concern to him, who I am afraid, does not Cdeferve it. Resolve never to See her more,
* or believe I will Sooner drink poison than ‘ ever See, or even think of, you again.
* Yet Sure Homrius cannot be false to his
_ .S
* Ariana, though you are unpardonably to
* blame to vex me So; for how is it pofli tble for me to see you look with calm in /jt^idifference on her, who never entertain’d
* a Thought of that fond Passion but in your
* favour. Send me word when I shall see
* you by the Bearer, which must be soon
* I cannot be easy till you convince me
* no one has a Share in your Heart, but t your
Ariana.
As soon as Le Merchant had finifb’d the reading of this Letter, he look’d on hono rius, as desirous to learn from him what was the Reason that induc’d Ariana to express so much Uneasiness concerning Lady
M -- -- -- -- shut he was sofar from taking
any Notice, or even minding his Presence, that on hearing this Letter, which reviv’d the Thoughts of too many past agreeable Transactions, he broke into a Passion, say
int.
Shep R u D E. y
ing, Is It possible that She, wssio ihow’d So
tender a Concern, mix’d with so many obliging Fears, on only an imaginary Jealou sy, can now think I can bear to See her another’s, without feeling every racking Torment that possess the infernal Fiends, and, like them, no Time, no Face, can retrieve. Oh Ariana! continud he, what Difference is there between our Conduct? You but fliow’d your Discontents to be redress’d, whilst my despairing A nguifti is to be remediless. Some little Concern, a few reluctant Tears, before you gave yourself for e ver away, might have foften’d the dread Anguish of my Soul; but so frozen an In senfibility seizes on my Heart, cold as the Icicles of Death.
9
Had you, said Le Merchant, interrupting him, any Design on the Lady M —, which the Influence ^of my Daughter caus’d you to reject? I know not well, answer’d this difirabed Lover, what I defign’d j my heart’s too full to utter aught wherein Ihe is concern’d. Perhaps, refum’d Le Merchant, who found himself concern’d in honorius’s Discontents, my Curiosity may not be to your disadvantage, and be pleas’d to reflect it is ari ana’s Father you oblige.
To which he reply’d, I am not So vaini to imagine Monsieur Le Merchant would bestow his Daughter on a miserable Undone j and nothing elfe, added he, can make me entertain a moment’s Thought of Ease or Happiness, till laid in my insensible Grave : hither let Defpgir and every Torment join
ds Prude,
f
to send me, and free you both from the Discontents which I unluckily have created between the best of Fathers and a Daughter, who, however She may be to blame in wssiat relates to me, always regards you with a just Duty and respectful Love, due to your uncommon Tenderness.
Here Lysander put him in mind of Le. merchant’s. Request. Homrius answering, said. There is little more than what the Letter
4 •
mentions, only an Uncle, who, by Right of Birth, knowing me to be his Heir, threatens to dilinherit me, unless I make my addrelses to Lady M -- -- -- -- -, wssio happen’d,
among some of my Relations, to speak so favourably of me, as caus’d them to imagine Hopes of my Success;; coming to my uncle’s knowledge, he prefs’d me in so violent a manner, that I could not tell well how to relict his Commands; thougfe, alas 1 added they would have little avail’d, had not the charming Ariana, on pretence of taking somethibg ill, refus’d to see me for above a Fortnight, in spite of all my pressing Solli
citarions.
That, Sir, was the real Motive that caus’d me to seem to comply with my Uncle, and, after three or four Visits, had the Honour to wait on her to the Play, accompany’d with Some of my Relations, and either by Design or Accident Ariana w as in the next Box. The Presence of a Cousin, who I knew would observe.. purpose to acquaint my Uncle, caus’d me only to pay her the Compliment of a distant Bow, tho’ I never
'laid
,   6g
laid a greater Restraint on myself than in that space of Time, which feem’d tedious to me as Ages. What Effect it had on Ariana, the Letter speaks, I never saw her in So obliging a Humour as when we met; and to put me out of all future Pain, as She term’d it, she then, as I thought, generously contracted herself to me in the manner you see
He had just finifh’d the last words, delivering into Le merchant’s hand the Contract, when his Uncle enter’d the Room. The Anger that Sparkled in his Eyes, Spoke little Comfort to Homrius, and without paying the Civility due to the Appearance of the Gentlemen on each fide of his Nephew, he Seated himself, and Shaking his Cane as much with Age as Passion, said, Well, I see you are caged at last. Are these the fine Lodgings looking round the Room) you intend to reside in this Summer, or, for the more con veniency of Air, perhaps you may take a Tour o’er the Water. Where is your gilded Equipage, hum I fancy you would be glad to go home in my old Berlin, and take
a Dinner -- -- which, let me see -- not five
Years ago you said look’d like a black Wagon. Where are your Friends, which you used to Say ’twas a greater pleasure to Serve than yourself? What are come of your Masques, your Singers, your Entertainments? — for, methinks, you look but melancholy. —? I warrant inventing some Machinery of c« pids and Graces to divert your honourable
Mistress
f
*]0
Mistress— — have a strong fancy the Widow would now go down.
Homrius, without reply, let him run himself out of breath; but the Confusion that appear’d in his downcast Looks, sufficiently fhew’d what an additional Weight these keen Reproaches were to the too many Woes that already prefs’d too violent, long to be Supported.
Le Merchant, who heard him wdth Some Surprise, told him, he suppos’d, though by his just Reproofs he would make his Nephew Senfibie of his past ill Conduct, he did not intend him this generous Visit, but with a design to make him easy, of his present Inconveniency, at least.
To wssiich the Uncle angrily answer’d, Not a Groat, not a Sous, except it were to buy him a Halter. — — No, added he, let’s see what his miftress will do, whose Frowns and Smiles to my knowledge he has dangled after these four Years. What, continued he, (applying himself to Homrius) I suppose you are to be a
Penfioner lover when she is married to
✓
grand, and Supply the husband’s place, when he is out of humour, or out of the way.
At this Homrius hop’d him, and with Looks, which fhew’d how much he resented his treating that Lady in so disrefpectful a manner, said. Sir, Whatever liberty you take with me, be pleas’d to reflect when you mention Ariana, you Speak of one whose Virtue is pure as un sullied Snow, and as free from taint as your mother’s Shade.
This
  71
This put the old Gentleman into such a Passion, that he wanted little of striking him, had not Lysander and Le Merchant interposed. The latter, though vex’d at the Reflection on his Daughter, could not help smiling to see what a Rage the old Gentleman was in, about his .mother’s Ghost. By degrees they foften’d him to more Moderation, who entertain’d them with a tedious Complaint of his nephew’s Faults, and particularly enlarg’d on his obstinate refusal of the Widow Lady i nor did he Spare to magnify how successful a Solicitor he had prov’d in inclining that Lady to favour him. Here Le Merchant tpok the opportunity of saying, I alsure you. Sir, there wants nothing but your having the same favourable Thoughts for your Nephew you were wont, tq match him more agreeably to his Inclination, and considerably more to his advantage than with Lady M— —, Estate must cease with herself; and, I believe, I may add, continued he, far greater than he could expect, were the Estate he has already squander’d away, join’d with yours.
If the old Gentleman heard him with a mazement, how delightfully furpriz’d was Honorius, who ftay’d not for his uncle’s Answer, but throwing himself at his Feet, said. Now, Sir, exert all that is good and noble in you to draw a guilty Undone — from the extremest Depth of human Misery, to so exalted a Height of Happiness, that I have not a Wish, a Hope beyond it. Oh Sir, blame not, added he, my past Ill conduct, but think on the numberless
Joys I Shall arrive at through you. -- 1
know
yx The Probe.
« 4 '
know the generous Le Merchant can mean no other than his lovely Daughter, when he talks of matching me agreeably to my Inclination. Oh! did you know her Worth, you would think all your Estate well bellow’d on only her, whose very Foibles, contmud this transported Lover, have Charms surpassing all the per fedions of her Sex. When she is obtain’d, I Shall Seek no other Delight, no other Joy; in having her, my Happiness will be complete. And, Oh believe me, who e’er would taste the truest Content, the most exalted Blessing of Life, it must be in the Soft Society of those we love! A Love infpir’d by stronger Causes than Reason can account for! And where can that Passion meet with greater Approbation than in a Wife? Law, Nature, and Heaven, not only approve, but give a Sanction to this Love. For this we are born, for this we hoard up Wealth i then favour and assift me in this one, this All of my Happiness, and you shall find this Extravagant, this Bankrupt, when he has obtain’d this treasure, the only one his Soiil Seeks, turn Miser, and gather immense Riches to preserve and guard my Chosen, my heart’s
Desire, Arianar -- -- Here the Passions crowded
too thick for further Utterance, and unable longer to support the Tumult they had rais’d within hirii, his Head fell negligently on his uncle’s Knees, bedewing them with Tears which forcibly broke their palsage froiri his Eyes.
If the old Gentleman felt his Heart relent at his nephew’s fubmissive, passionate Entreaties, much more did Le merchant’s who fan
  yj;
dead lie saw in Homrius all that he promis’d of the fond, the indulgent, and the industrious Husband, bulled with a tender Care for both Ariana, and their smiling Offspring: herose from his Seat, and taking the Uncle by the Hand, Sajd, Sir, your Looks tell me you cannot long relict your nephew’s just Request' then raise him to that Happiness I think he deserves. My Daughter shall be his, if you confirm it with your Approbation, and Estate after your Death.
The Uncle was too well acquainted with Le merchant’s Character, not to be Senfibie how very advantageous a Match it must heeds be to Honorius, whom he had still a Value for, in spite of all his Wrangling, and very gladly gave into it; Saying, Why now we talk with Sense and Reason. I am not against my nephew’s being fond of his Wife, though I did not like he should be fool’d by a Woman; and since Monsieur Le Merchant has the generosity to accept of you for his Son, my Cori ^ Sent nd Assistance shall not be wanting in anything that can make you happy.
After Honorius had exprefs’d his grateful Thanks in transports of Joy to his Uncle and the generous Father of Ariana, he withdrew a little to compose himself, and recover the wild Disorders he was conscious he had Shown bn Such various Occasions. In the meanwhile, the Uncle and Father Soon Settled Affairs to their Satisfaction : And whatever Weakness some may esteem Le Merchant guite ty of, in thus fondly complying with Horn
rius’s Love, who think there is no Happiness
L buc
74
but in vast Pofteflions, yet he had so much Skill as not to part with the old Gentleman, till he had confirmed under his Hand not only all he promis’d, buc every Acre he had, on Honorius after his Death. For which purpose having freed the now happy Lover, they all went directly to Le Merchant s, where Dinner by this time waited their coming.
In the mean time, never did Morning pafs so tedious as this to Ariana, the Humour of / that Lady inclining her more to create Un
ealinefs in others than suffer the least in herself. The Maid had acquainted her wsith Le merchant’s taking homrius’s Letter; this a larm’d her with disquiets, which till then she had been a Stranger to, her father’s Anger being the only thing she ever dreaded : On this Occasion, she thought Ihe heard him Upbraid her with a Severity she was but too conscious She deferv’d. In vain did Ihe rack her Wit in framing Excuses, they were all too weak to entertain a Hope of alfuaging a Wrath She trembled at the thoughts of. It was in these Moments she repented the having favour’d Honorius So much, or used him so very ill. Bellgrand, and every Idea of greatnessjwere quite expell’d by the terrible 'Apprehensions of her father’s difpleasure. She wonder’d he ftay’d out so long, yet dreaded his coming home.
It w’as amidst these perplexing Fears, that ihe perceiv’d, looking through a Window which fronted the Street, Honorius and her Father alight from their Coach, with Lysander and the Uncle, whom ftie did not know. She
imme
The  . 75
mmediately imagin’d he had expos’d her, and was come to confront her; this terrify’d her b, that (he receiv’d them all o’er pale and rembling; whilst Le Merchant entering the loom with the now happiest of Lovers, mefented him to her with a Countenance ternly fcdate, telling her it was to homrim’s ’ntreaties, she owed his not using her in a
nuch worse way, -- -- -- who from this Mo
nent, added he, you must look on as your lusband; and the only means you have to econcile yourself to me, is to make him a lends in the best of Wives for the worst of dliftrelses, and study how to know your du y to your Husband better than you have one to your Father.
Unable to bear his Look and Words, To nil of a Resentment So different from that acernal Tenderness with which he always let her, she fell on her Knees without utter ig a Word. Buc the fond Lover Soon pre ail’d on Le Merchant to raise her up, more to ler Peace and Satisfaction; who quickly left hem together, returning to the Uncle and iyfander, who ftay’d behind.
Honorius in Raptures told her all the happy franfactions of that Morning, and ftie was oo perfectly Mistress of every insinuating Lrt, not easily to calm the Doubts her Un: indnefs had rais’d, nor was ftie difpleas’d t his Success: : though Pride, Vanity, and tmbition, join’d with the dread of her faber’s displeafure, caus’d her to act so false
Part, yet it is certain, if ftie lov’d any hing besides herself, it was Honqriuy, on
t? whom
%
The P R V D te.
whom She had the good t'ortuiie eveft aftef Marriage to maintain the Same Afcelldant; hot that she did not stretch his Patience Sometimes to the utraoft extent, which she would then recall back with so ^grefeable a Flattery, mix’d with a thousand Soothing Charms peculiar to that Lady. Their Marriage Was defer’d no longer than the next day a: nd the difficulty of making an Apology'wais left to Lysander.
'Thus did the subtle eltfindd.s Contrivance by a lucky turn of Fortune, ohce in favour of Mctit, change Honorius from the mdll (defpemte to the most happy of Men; whilst it frov’d quite dtherwife with the unfottunau Lysander, who generously strove to make hi; Friend happy, by thus blasting all his hope; in though With no less passionate Desires
than thoffe which polsefsh the fond horn sins. sbdtlgrdifid hot ohly receiv’d his Apolog) coldly; but ex|^ress’d an extreme idifcontent ikt Lyfdndeh, Whotfr riow he said; had been that mtire occasion of • his proceeding sofar it that Affair : the Ihtereft and Respect hie had for him, changfd to ill natur’d Reflection) which the othet perceiv d with a displeafure equal to his Love. In vain die! he Summon Reason and cohr^ge to his Aid; the more lie ftrbv6 to repulsethat fond Paffiqn by a hbpelefs Despair it still with mote l/iolence returt^ed.
He quickly left Bellgrand, j and almost itt fensibly to himself, went to emelia*s APART ment, where that obliging Lady no sooner cast her Eyes on him, but siie began
i' ' ‘ V - ' ^ t t if - ^ * kv
*
  Fy
to inquire of his Health, in a manner, that ihow’d a more than common Concern for the Disorders in his Looks, which he excused as entirely owing to his Discontent for bellgrand.s unexpected Difappointinent, relating at large all honorius’s History: oil which Bellamira, who was present, said, You have given so handsome a Character of the Lover, that I am almost pleased he has succeeded, whatever my brother’s displeafure may be for the loss of Ariana, who I cannot help thinking, added fie, was extremely to blame to give him such Encouragement, without her father’s knowledge. Etnelia just then happening to be at Some distance giving Direction to one of her Attendants Lysander reply’d. The Fault was not her encouraging, but her deceiving him j and yet pursued he, how happy should I be; could I even obtain a little of that pleasing Flattery to Sooth a Despair too exquisitely tormfenting to be exprefs’d or thought. Oh! Bellamira, added he, looking passionately on her. How Small a Trouble would a generous Pity cost you, and from how many painful Agtniies would it free me, to think at least, whatever difference Fate has placed between usj I was not despis’d by the loveliest of her Sex I Were you in earnest, answer’d Bellamira, the Blufies o’er fpreading her charming facej
ray Pity would be of little use, if not attended with my Friends, which I believe Lysander is too sensible Will be impossible ever obtain. The Approach of Emelia prevented any further Conversation j who taking
A ^., > ', V ♦ f m
'notice
t
7o
notice of the Confusion that appear’d in both their Looks, sometime kept her Eyes steadily fix’d on Lysander;; whom she said, Now I perceive the force of Sympathy, I always imagining I only esieem’d you for your uncommon Merit; but this Moment I have found a more powerful Motive, you very much resembling a Person I once valued above all the World. She could not help ending these Words with a Sigh, as the Sequel of her History will Show She had but too just cause.
To this .Discourse of Emelia, Bellafnira answering, said. How different are your Thoughts from mine, for I have often fancied Lysander not unlike you? Which obliging Conversation of the Ladies he return’d with a Respect that show’d how happy he thought himself in that generous Esteem, which Emelia on all occasions exprefs’d for him, on whom now only his Hopes depended.
No Sooner did he return home, but retiring to his closet, he there at large reflected on what had palsed. The Words of Bellamira, that her Pity would be of little life if not attended with her Friends, with the Blushes that accompanied them, he fondly imagined spoke in his favour; but then the cruel Conclusion, where (he told him she believed he was too sensible it would be impossible ever to obtain, Seized him with such an inexprelflble Grief, as made him curse his narrow Fortune whilst attended with Such ambitious Desires, meditating a
|i]ous^n4 extravagant s§hemes how to advance

'c.
  79
vance a Fortune worthy her Acceptance. But that violent irresiftible Deity, Love, still o’ercoming every Obstacle calm Reason opposed, he at length rallied up Courage enough to resolve to write to Bellamira, She being always surrounded with too much Company hardly ever to obtain another Opportunity of speaking to her; and indeed so very difficult was it for him to give her the Letter, that he paid Emelia four or five Visits before he could contrive to do it, as he thought, unperceiv’d; Tho’ he unfortunately found his Impatience was like to prove very < fatal; for Elijinda and Stanijfa being with Bellamira, who from the Window called them to see a fine Equipage pass by of their Acquaintance, and they going to a different Window than that she look’d out at, Lysander being nigh her, in a low Voice faltering with Fear, said, I conjure the beauteous Bellamira, if she has any of that tender Compassion so lovely in her Sex, by the Power file adores, to receive and read this, (putting the Letter into her Hand) which She took, telling him he ask’d by too great a Power for her to refuse his Request.
But just as file was shipping it into her Pocket, Elijinda, whose Spite made her more intent on them, than the Equipage, happening to turn her Head, obferv’d bella mira having the Letter; and as soon as Lysander was gone, she hinted it to sta nijfa, who, under pretence of Settling her Clothes, took it out of her Pocket, whilst the other held her in talk.
8o The r R u D E.
It was not long before the \ovt\y Bellamira retir’d to her Chamber, impatient to read the Lettetj favouring the agreeable Author much more than she ever intended to let him know; but, on examining her Pockets, and missing it, she quickly return’d where She left the Ladies, who were withdrawn, with as eager Desires to read it as she, though mov’d by very different Motives, leaving Emelia alone. The amaz’d Concern Bellamira shew’d in Searching for Something She feem’d to have lost, created a Curiosity in Emelia to know what it was j which still increasing by the Vexation the other exprefs’d for the loss of what she could not sind; Emelia, at length, pressing her in very obliging Terms to know what had caused so great an Uneasiness, Bellamira Said, It is what I am extremely troubled at, because, if it Should be found by any that are malicious, I shall be thought culpable of a greater Indiscretion, than I am really guilty of.
These Words making Emelia much more importunate to be let into the Secret, and the other having an uncommon Confidence in her Indulgence, together with the fear it would come to her knowledge by other means, did not long keep her in suspence, but own’d the Truth. On which Emelia told her. She had for sometime Sufpeded as much, with no Small Concern, being very much pleas’d it was gone no farther before Ihe had acquainted her with it; For no
other reason, I alfure you, Bellamiray added
Ihe.
  Si
fie, but that I may either be the means to ' restore your Mind to its former Tranquillity, which I am a little suspicious Lysander has difturb’d, or perhaps find Ways to make you happy with him; who, though I love' you as my Child, I cannot help thinking deserves you, were Fortune half as kind to him as Nature, who has been too lavish of her Favours to him, for even the Frowns of the other fickle Deity to obscure.
Though nothing could be more pleasing to Bellamira, than Emelia s speaking thus favourably of Lysander;; striving to dis guife her Sentiments, She reply’d. And do you, Madam, ever' think it possible for Lysander to arrive at a height of Fortune sit for me to hear his addrelses, without becoming the Scorn and Jest of all who should be sensible of my condefeending Love }
The Ingenuity of that young Gentleman seems to me, reply’d Emelia, to promise he may one day arrive at a Fortune worthy your acceptance; But withal She added, I would not have you depend on such uncertain Expectations, and give Hopes that may cruelly embitter the loss of you, if disappointed in his other Views. If you will leave this Affair to me, I will either cure him by the hopeless Impossibility of ever obtaining you, or prompt him to Seek you by Methods which ought to be approved by your Friends. — -'■■■■ You have, said Bellamira, already fhew’d So generous an Indulgencd to my weakness, that I cannot help difeo vering to you my Heart rather inclines
M to
82,
to willi the last;; though I would not give him Hopes, I cannot be pleas’d with the thoughts that his Despair Should be So extreme, as to cause my becoming entirely indifferent to him : not but since you have been so obliging to interest yourself in this Affair, I promise to do nothing in favour of Lysander, without yotir Approbation, and Shall think myself happily secure in your impartial Wisdom. I cannot lay, reply d Emelia, I find myself So very impartial : However, I will try to make reason my Guide in i whatever Shall relate to you two.
In the mean time, the Sentiments of Elifinda were of a different nature, who retired with a malicious Joy to peruse the stolen
Letter; which contain’d these Words.
<
L TSJ NT ER to the Adorable
RELLJMIRA4 *
* t3 E F O R E you turn your lovely
* XJ Eyes on these presumptuous Lines,
* Summon up all the Soft Compalsion of
* your Sex, and pardon at least this Con
* in him, whom your irresiftible ‘ Charms have made completely miserable ^ vain have I strove to subdue a Passion
* violently great longer to be oppos’d
* or stifled. The tortur’d, Wretch finds ‘ some ease in his loud Complaints, though
* fiill continued on the Rack, -- little other
* Hope of Redress has the unfortunate Ly
* fander". yet would feign teii the beauteous

t
  8j
* teous Bellamira -- -- my humble, my ar
‘ dent, my sincere Adoration. Oh! why ‘ has Sate caus’d So cruel a Distance?? ‘ are you So high, and I So very
* low -- -- since amongst all your number
‘ less Admirers, none can ever love with ‘ Passion equal to mine. There being no ' Dangers, no Difficulties, nor Tortures, ‘ which I would not fly to encounter with ‘ eager Joy, to gain even the pleasing ‘ View or Poflibilicy of ever arriving at ‘ so glorious. So great. So exalted an hap.r
‘ pinefs......buc whither does my wild
^ fond Imagination carry me 1 -- -- it’s alrea
‘ dy check’d -- -- for, methinks, here I see
'you shake your Head, and with a scornful,
‘ yet charming Smile, Say — -- -- -- How vain
^ is his every Thought 1 — -- -- -- -
‘ is his every Hope? -- -- -- ‘oh Bellamira!
‘ be not So very cruel as to think it im^ ‘ possible. You have Se€; n, you have heard ‘ how the Charms of Ambition, mean when ‘ compar’d with yours, have often fired ‘ Mankind with a restless Emulation, baf ‘ fled by no Difficulty, till they had reach’d
‘ an envied Height. — -- -- -- Oh then believe
‘ Bellamira as a sacred Truth, I would do ‘ Ten Thousand Thousand Times more to ‘ gain but one enlivening Hope; yes, Ma ‘ dam, could I but once obtain the Hap ‘ pinefs to know that Bellamira defpis’d
‘ me on no other score but that of For
‘ tune, I would soon pulli my Fate, to ' put an end by the eternal Shades of ' Death to this anxious suspence, or in
'' U" ‘some
$4 Lbe
* some degree make myself worthy to be
* for ever bellamird.s passionate Adorer;
L rsander
\
Eli finda having read the Letter, with a Spiteful Smile, said to Stanijfa, Now, if I mistake not, I have an Opportunity to repay, with Interest, lyfandeps insolent Neglect; nor shall he, added fhej have even the Pleasure of feeding this exalted Flame with empty Hopes. I will put a stop to all his romantic Flatonick Adorations, which, I suppose, his dreaming Passion has poffefs’d him with. She failed not to execute that moment what She threaten’d, carrying it to Bellgrand, and after Some grave Reflections on the Inconveniency of being too famh liar with one’s Inferiours, she defir’d him to speak to Emelia about it, without taking any Notice of her discovering it, but as if dropp’d by Bellamira in going to her Chamber.
Bellgrand, complying with his sifter’s Advice, acquainted Emelia, in very haughty Terms, with the presumptuous Designs of that inconsiderable Fellow, as he was pleas’d to style him. Emelia, arm’d for this Encounter, told him, Bellamira had already inform’d her of his Address, and that she intended to send for Lysander, a nd make him Senfibie of his Error and her Displeasure. To which She added. That for fear of any Other ill conseqqence, She intended to return
into
* s I -'
  85
into the Country with Bellamira within a Week. Bellgrand fully fatisfy’d with what Emelia said she delign’d, left the reproving of Lysander to her, to whom he always paid a complaisant Regard, having Secret Views of her Estate for himself and Bellamira,
Emelia accordingly sent for Lysander, who waited on her, alarm’d with Fears, that TOO Soon prove Certaintys. She receiving him in her Drefling room as the most private, and accosting him with his Letter in her Hand, told him, it was immediately miss’d by Bellamira, and how Soon her Brother had it; who, said she, has left me to acquaint you with his Knowledge, and he desires you would delift in your Address to Bellamira, who, I am certain, will never encourage anything of this nature without his Approbation.
I need not go about to paint the Confusion and Despair which seiz’d Lysander on these Words, it being much easier to imagine than describe; an earthy Pale o’er spread his Face, and so great was his Concern, that it was Some time before he could recover himself enough to make her any Reply. When at last, with much difficulty, he Said, What you tell me. Madam, ought less to Surprise me, be cause expected : Men condemn’d to Death, should rally up all their Courage to receive the Blow.
At this, Emelia, who was moved by a more powerful Motive than she yet knew any Cause for, found herself so much infected
with his Grief, that Ihe generously told him.
If
86 ithe  .
If he had any probable Expectations from Olarius, or otherwise, She would, perhaps, second it with a Friendship greater than he could hope.
Lysander, transported with this unexpected goodness in Emelia, reply’d, I know not what the providential Powers design for me, but ever since I have had the Honour to know you, I have regarded you with the Respect I pay to guardian Angels. I never had the Happiness, continued he, to be fenlible of filial Tenderneft, yet in your Indulgence, unknowing to my self, I have entertain’d Hopes of receiving from you Blessings little inferior to that which fond Paternal Love bellows. For heaven’s sake. Madam, reajfumed he, continue that generous Compassion you have already been pleas’d to express to me, you shall
never repent it by any Offence of mine; which alas, ^aaded he, is all I have power to promise. He then acquainted her with his only depending on the Liberality of, as he justly term’d, it, the best of Men, without so much as Showing
who his Parents were, otherwise than that Qlarius had often told him, he was a Gentleman and his Friend; and though, ^ purfu*d he, I cannot press my generous Benefactor to anything, yet he has given cause to hope and expect whatever is in his power; not three Days since, he purchasm me an Employment considerably more Advantageous and Honourable than my former. In Short, after much Discourse, staying with her above two Hours, he at last prevail’d So far with Emelia, that Ihe gave him leave to write to her, and men
’ •' ' ' C ...J ^ ‘; •
'tion
  87
tion what he pleas’d of Bellamira, whom, if she judg’d proper, should see it; but on this Condition only, that he would promise on his Honour never to write to that Lady without her knowledge : which he having alter’d her of, she farther added a particular Care to avoid its falling into elijinda*s power, at the same time letting him understand, her Assistance should not be wanting, if anything fell out to his advantage, if he would buc acquaint her with it.
On these Terms she took her leave of Lysander, whom she would not suffer to see Bellamira; though at the same time, she gave him greater Hopes than the fond Lover expected or imagined; and according as she had promis’d Bellgrand, within four Days she left the Town, who accompanied her, with Elifinda, to her Countryseat. But what happen’d when they arriv’d there, and the many Difficulties which the Malice of Elifinda created to the loversjwith the Adventures of Emelia, and the surprising Means by which Lysander came to the knowledge of his Parents, are reserved to the Second Part.
FINIS.
0
t
♦
* 'I
\ ^ •
I •
I '
f
«
I
> • 4 '
>
9
S
%
- _ • -- -- -- -- -- V
#
*• *
I
1
• > -
h
\
%
\
%
»/
i
* k
i :
"/
THE
O
r
  5
A
N O V E L
1^
i.
PART II
\
*
i^^^^^^g||^fg^^^ghbt9mmhldhocsxsbshb9bss09bshhbscssanbmbkrsdnbb9mmh0tnahnhmbam^
I
'I
V fei
_ •
5oe6oqooceoe©og60qooaoo6
Price IS, 6d.
/
0
N
«
• '' 4 ’
*
t
/
I
• A
S
«• ^
%
• • •
• r ^
... «
'.. #•
V
%
4 4.. ' "^ *
'' r ';
C. *■
* ‘ '" V
r
.«
«
• • 4
•. • •
♦ >•
\
The j
P R UDE
N O V E L
PART II
I Written by a louftg Lady. j
j LONDON: I
I Printed for J. R o b e r t s, near the Oxford |
Arms in Warwick lane. m.dcc. XXV I |
I Where may be had the First Part, J |
I Price 1 s. 6 d. II
. .................................■ i
^. - • • • • •,
M
A
«
i
r
;
%. i
>
t
♦
» • *****
i
'/
• y
ti

\
%
#
f
H
I
/
I
t
i
f
»
«
V
•>
#
>
%
THE
 .
PART II
HHE Ladies beginning their Journey, Bellgrand, Stanijfa, with eli finda and her Woman, filled one Coach; whilst Emelia and Bellamira followed in an open Chariot, with each of their Attendants on Horseback.
The Summer being advanced to its greatest height of Pride, like a wanton Prodigal, profusely threw all her Bounties round them, presenting to their view the earth’s choicest stores, which had been long hoarded within her bo fom by the cold Icicles of penurious Winter | the sun’s fiery Beams dispersing the deep verdure of the Spring into a thousand different Greens, which intermixing with beauteous Flowers, created a pleasing Variety wherever they turn’d their Eyes; whilst the pretty
Part II B wing’d
wing’d Choristers of the Air, on their lofty Branches, Saluted them with nature’s sweetest Harmony; whilst the Swift Horses, in Clouds of Dull, fled the dinged Town, and by their eager course feem’d to Seek the untainted fragrant Country Air.
But beuamira, insensible to all these Pleasures, often turn’d her beauteous Eyes towards the Town, Lysander there having gain’d too secure a hold of her Heart for such trifling Amusements to interrupt the least thoughts of him r this Separation causing her more Sensibly to feel his Power, imagining every motion of the circling wheels was making an eternal Division between them: in vain she strove to
t.
suppress the rising Sighs j the greatest Happiness she now wished, was alone to give a full vent to her Sorrows by Tears, often fancying she had too rigidly acted the Heroine, in submitting her self So entirely to the Gosiduct of Emelia, who did not want the penetration easily to discern the true spring from whence this unusual Melancholy in her flowed; which, §fter having sirft unsuccessfully strove to divert, she let her understand she was not ignorant of the Cause of her Pensivenefs, conjuring her, by the Happiness she hoped for, not to indulge it '■> for though, pursued Emelia, it’s a pleasing, yet it’s a fatal Fire, the more you give way. to it, and feed it, the more it will devour your Repose. I am, alas, added fie, but too well acquainted with the Danger, not to wish to Save you from the Rock on which my Peace, and all my Happiness, hath long since been wreck’d, Only leaving me a wretched insipid Life,, insensible of Joy or Pleasure.
Bellamira
The Prude! 2
Bellamira never having heard Emelia make the least mention of her being touched with that weakness, though so incident to our Nature, looking on her with some surprise, said. Is it possible. Madam, that you, who have on every other occasion Shown so perfect a Command over all your Passions, fhou’d suffer that one to tyrannise to such a cruel degree as you are pleas’d to say. Yes, replied Emelia, Heaven is niy Witness, it’s to the letting that one Folly gain too great an ascendant over my Soul, that I owe millions of tedious restless Nights and anxious Days : Yet, continued that Lady, her Looks are clouded with so sorrowful an Air, as but too fully confirmed the Truth of what she said;; was sofar from giving way to any wild inequality, or combating between Inclination and unrelenting Friends, that I had 6 ven the cozening plea pf Duty to contribute towards my indulging a Passion, the Excess of which has imbitter’d all my past Life. Did; y any pursued she, but know the cruel disasters which attend my Love, that had the fahction of Law ahd Heaven on my fide j you would shun the very Name, and dread every Thought of that deceiving pernicious Disease with as great a Terror, as you wou’d sly ill • Fate, accompany’d with all her changing Scenes of Misery.
This Discourse of emelias reviv’d Bellamira, and rais’d an extreme Curiosity in her to know the whole Series of a Life, of which She had already heard several extraordinary pieces, reply’d she. How deceitful are Appearances; since you are so unhappy, as you are pleas’d to ex
f
4-
bleltings that Fortune or Nature can bestow, insomuch as to create the Envy of some, and at the same time raise the Admiration of almost the whole Province! For who could imagine Emelia, like the expiring Phoenix, should languish in the consuming Flames of Love, that hath still relifted, with a steady austerity, the ardent addrelfes of all the neighbouring Nobility and Gentry. You see, resumed Emelia, what a Confidence I have in you, you having drawn from, me a Secret disclosed to none living but yourself, which I did to arm you against my Fate, you having it yet in your Power to control the young beginnings of (I fear) your Love for Lysander. •. alas, continued Emelia, how vain will be my Advice, you being of an Age more inclin’d to receive the impressions of that deluding Passion, than a ny grave Instructions to he contrary. To whidi Bellamira reply’d. Madam you very much wrong the regard. I always pay to your Instructions, which penetrate so deep in me, as to make an eternal impression on my Mind j and am confident, added she, did you think it proper to let me know the Particulars of your unhappy Story, I should always wear them in my Mind as a Shield to defend me against the Same Misfortunes. Could I flatter my self, tz» jwered Emelia, in the least it would have that good Effect, I should readily let you know them, however my weakness might be cen sured, for entertaining one so young with love 4 dventures.
Ah Madam, answered Bellamird, do not imagine it a Weakness; for I am certain, such extraordinary things as have happen’d to you
Shep R U D E. 5
must be both infinitely improving and diverting. Cufhema, who attended you in the Indies, hath told me many Particulars of the king’s violent Passion for you, accompany’d with the dangers of the queen’s Jealousy; and your flight with your 5 which hath raised in me so great a Curiosity to hear the rest, that nothing but the fear of offending you by my inquisitiveness could allay; though to obtain that Satisfaction, I would venture to incur a little of your Displeasure. Well, reply’d Emelia, one time or other I will acquaint you with them; not but those things Cufhema hath been so busy in rehearsing, are the smallest part of the Vexa,, I have met with, and believe you’ll be convinc’d, when I have divulg’d all that hath happen’d to me, I have no mean Opinion of your Friendship, by trusting you with a Secret that ought for ever to be bury’d in Oblivion. On \t\i\eh Bellamira said. Had you not riiention’d it requires so great a Confidence in the disclosing of them, I would hate entreated it might have been now, to divert the tediousness of our Journey, especially as we qre now alone 5 for when you arrive at your Seat, too many Vifiters will crowd, for me to catch So lucky an opportunity in Some Months.
Emelia perceiving her impatient Curiosity, and thinking it might divert for < the present the Uneasiness she perceiv’d the reparation from Lysander had created, began to recount the
Transactions of her past Life in the following Manner.
I
1
She  ,
• 1
/, I .... C A 4 V V ^
L •»• »» .' '
• V ».
«
': : i
^ #
mdsds HJS TO F r.
■ X •. ' • r
Jt
I' will conceal nothing from you of Importance, for which reason I must begin with my Birth J for though you are not ignorant I am at distance related to your Mother, yet the little Knowledge you have of the Condition my Parents left me in, obliges meto acquaint you,, that though many of my father’s Ancestors were diftinguifh’d by Titles, yet he being a younger Brother, had little to depend; on but his Sword, and in that Station .marrym my Mother, who was a considerable Fortune foi him. ■ But they did not long enjoy the Happiness, or know the Vexations of that State, my Birth fatally causing her Death; at which her Relations, being, extremely griev’d, to comfort themselves for her Loss, took on them the Care of me, as a Part of her they never more, in this Life, were to know anything of. Berinthia her Sister, then a childless Widow, was'the Person to whom low my Education, in whose Tenderness I never miss’d: a Mother; she also took care my Father should render back part of niy mother’s Fortune into her Power to provide for me. I mention this now, because you’ll hereafter find I have reason to place all my Misfortunes to this account. My Father, though he never marrym again, living be
hic pnvpnna tx/hipn T \rroc tatr/an
V V m ^
years of Age, leaving me only to depend on what my Aunt had taken care to secure; who, though she had a considerable Jointure, yet being a perfect fashionable Lady, visited by Persons of the first Rank, fell into that unhappy Foible of Gaming, which in the end made her very uneasy, and prov’d my fatal Ruin; though I think of it with less bitterness, because I am certain it was an unwary Injury, She taking an uncommon Care to give me all the Improvements I was capable to learn: I arrived to the Age of Fifteen, enjoying all the calm Pleasures that Youth and Innocence could yield in the gayest of Company.
But alas! I had not past above three Months beyond that Age, before I came acquainted with the Cause of all those irreparable Sorrows, Anxieties and Miseries I have since fuffer’d. yiy Aunt, according to her usual Custom, going into the Country to spend the Summer, we had not been at her Seat above a Fortnight, before some young Ladies visiting me, I went to Show them the coming in of the Tide, at a River that ran not two Fields from the House; the violent Noise it makes in.its entering, is both surprising and diverting, it roars like the wild horrid Cries of hungry Beasts eagerly pursuing their Prey, which is judg’d to be occalion’d by the meeting of two Rocks that almost stop its Passage, and causes it to push with greater force when past that narrow strait, it rushing with such impetuosity, as to overturn Boats and small veltels in its way : but to save the watery Travellers from the Danger, it warns them by its Noise several Miles before its approach. This occalion’d
some
Some Gentlemen that were diverting themselves at the sport of Fishing, to draw in not only their Nets, but Boat, ^ under a high Rock where we stood to view the tide’s entrance, which had a vast descent from the River. They in that Place lodg’d their Tackling and Boat for Security, ^ intending, by a Path contrived on purpose for such Uses, to mount to the upper Ground, * but as I since learned, they were longer detain’d there than. occasion requir’d, in listening to our ignorant idle Talk concerning the River, and other trifling Things; and not being directly beneath where we stood, they had made themselves peep holes through the Greens to view us, whilst they remain’d conceal’d from our sight by the Reeds and Shrubs, and Rock; It unfortunately chanced, that I leaning to reach a Butterfly, the beauteous variety of Colours that was placed in its Wings inviting my Curiosity to a nearer view, my Foot slipped, I in vain catching hold of the next growing Twigs; for they yielding to my weight, I fell into the River, where I had been soon inevitably lost, had not beuvile, one of the young Gentlemen before mention’d, leapt from the place of their Concealment after me into the River, and diving down caught hold of me, and with no small difficulty and danger drew me tq the Shore, the Tide approaching so close as to be very nigh o’erwhelming us both; and would {cryd Emelia, interrupting her Story) the Waves had devour’d me in their merciless folds, or bury’d me in the Entrails of the greedieft Monfier that inhabits the watery Element, before J had owed my Life to so cruel
and
sr
and treacherous a Preserver. But why do I talk, added she, Prescience is not given to Mortals, elfe with my returning Senses I should.. loaded him with curses instead of the Blessings I then implored might be fhower’d down on my generous Deliverer. But, pursued she, the Outcries of my Companions quickly reaching to my Aunt and her People, they made to the Banks of the River almost as Toon as beuvile had drawn me out, senseless, without Motion, and few sighs of Life, to that Place, where, they have since told me, that with a tender inexpressible Concern, he endeavoured by ail means in his power to restore my almost lost Life; moaning over me in terms so Passionate, as fhow’d he was more interested in my Recovery, than what was merely due to Compassion, on such Occasions. Whilst my Aunt, having learned in how generous a ihan ner he had saved me, first taking care to have me convey’d Home, the more conveniently to be relieved j with Expressions of Gratitude, ' equal to Such an extraordinary Obligation, she invited him to her House, to have his wet Clothes changed, and himself rctrefhed aftef So violent a Fatigue; entreating beuvile to bring along with him the Gentlemen that accompany’d him in his Diverfioh; Some of them were already of her Acquaintance, and all feem’d desirous to stay and see the event of my Recovery 5 which was riot long. A Surgeon happening to be in the Neighbourhoodj let me blood, nd liavirig receiv’d a little Water, I was soon, with Cordials, restored to Life, and my senses; where the first thing I learned, was my Obligations to the generous
Part II G Hazarded
>
Wm w^wf «JU V jljp aji V
Hazarder of his own Life to preserve mine: my Aunt telling me at the Same time, he desired to See me before he took his Leave, order’d me to raise my self in my Bed, and receive him as well as possible. But ah I Bellamira, pursued Bmeha, how shall I describe the Charms of my Conqueror when he approach’d me 1 even in that rough Difhabillte there appear’d such an enchanting Softness in his Eyes, mix’d with such an engaging Command in his Air, that I am aflfur’d I needed not So great a Prepoflfeffion in his favour, to have liked, to have loved him beyond all I had ever thought of that Sex. His Words and Eyes exprels’d an unspeakable joy to see me So ihuch recover’d. Though my weakness permitted him not long to stay;; in that Short Space, he Said So many easy, tender, obliging Things, how Happy he thought himself in having preferv’d me from so imminent a Danger, that I cannot help acknowledging to you, from that Moment I did nothing but think of him; and in ' return for Life preferv’d, entirely Sacrificed
my Heart, my future Peace and Happiness to him.. For though I was very young, 1 easily perceived there was something in the languifh inent of his Eyes, and Manner of hs« Address, which I Soon became knowing enough to interpret Love. When he took his Leave of my Aunt, he entreated she would permit him to visit me j saying, he was too much interested rn what he had So happily saved, not to desire to see the full completion of it. Which, had she not been inclined to. Decency would have prevented her Refusal, considering fhelate Obligation, and the Knowledge she by this time
had
AVA. XV JC.. Jt Jt
had of his Birth; having learned of the Company, he was the eldest Son of the Count Ds
-- -- -- I will forbear to mention the Name of
his father’s Title, said Emelia, because it is. now descended to him, and is too conspicuous not to be known; and some unhappy Particulars of my Relation being no ways to his advantage, I will only hide that Part from you.
He was then efteem’d the most accomplifh’d Chevalier that adorn’d his Native Court, having visited most others for Improvement; besides, he had a stock of Learning beyond what is usual in Persons of his Distinction. He had already reach’d the six and twentieth Year of his Age, and just returning from his Travels, paid his Parents a visit; they at that time ber ing in that Country, where their chief Seat and most Part of their Estate lay.
But though I was ignorant' what Impression this Adventure made on him; I will own, that as soon as the Dizziness, occafion’d by my Fall, permitted me to think, I imploy’d all my Thoughts on him, and the Accident that. had happen’d; and often made my self uneasy, with the fear that beuvile’s saving me was merely owing to his Gallantry; not imagining he had seen me before my Fall. Though that fear was dispersed on his first Visit, he then taking occasion to make me sensible, what he had done was the Effect of the Charms ( he said } difcover’d in me before my fatal plunging into the River: Which I was easily inclin’d to believe; for as young People are generally delighted with Show, and Appearances, foin my Eyes beuvile seed’d to surpass himself, having
CL changed
JL mm jil fa/v JLV vy jl jui*
changed the negligent Dress he had on before, for Fishing, to the richest Habiliments that a dorn a Birthday; which he fet off by a thousand Graces, and Such a becoming easy Pride, as made me confider him unparallel’d. Nor was I a little pleasm, a Gentleman So accomplifh’d should esteem me worthy of his particular Regard; he from that time declaring his Passion with all the Insinuations that are usual on such Occasions.
But I dwell too long, continued Emelia, on Trifles, and still too fondly repeat what then pleased me.
Not in the least, answer’d Bellamira; for methinks I see him with all those Graces and Accomplishments you are pleas’d to describe, charmed with your inimitable Beauty; which Time, that cruel Robber, hath not yet had power to plunder you of.
Emelia, with a confused Smile, was going to reply, when Bellamira re aflhming the Dist course, asked her. Whether this was the Person file told Lysander he resembled? It was, said Emelia, (immediately reflecting that was the Cause Ihe so readily admired his Charms) ted ought to warn you to shun arefemblance so fatal to me; for Lysander is of the same Sex,
'and may have a Heart as deceitfully Cruel: they are all smooth ais summers Waters in pursuit, Beauty then concealing the ravenous Passions that closely lurk to devour the heedless believing Prey, when in their power, as youhl find immediately in beuvile a Instance of. His constant Visits quickly Spreading round the Country, at last reach’d his father’s ears; and also several of my aum’s Friends taking ■ '■ • -■. the
the liberty to represent to her, how much beuvile was above my Expectations for a huf band, with the Impossibility, were he inclin’d, his Father being still alive; and if she fuffer’d the Continuance of his Visits, my lost Reputation would certainly be the unhappy confe quence that must attend it. This so alarm’d her, that she resolved to forbid him, though in as obliging a Manner as possible: : she has since own’d to me, he received with inexpressible Concern; entreating her to lay aside this Resolution, protesting his Designs were Honourable : But Berinthia being immovable, he was at last forced to take his Leave, without feeing me, my Aunt having confined me to my Chamber, very uneasy at this cruel Separation; though ip that perplex’d Condition, with no small Satisfaction, I view’d him through the Window going to his Chariot, he often looking back with so deep a Melancholy in his Air, as caused me to imagine his Displeasure equal to mine, at least; nor do I question but at that time it was so. Being Violent in his Nature, he is Implacable in his Hatred j buc whilst he loves, is tender beyond all that can be exprefs’d or imagin’d of that Passion: I have often heard him say, he thought it resembled the Divine Being to reward Virtue liberally; and punish Offences. And indeed, pursued that disconsolate Lady, only in what related to me, he strictly followed this Maxim. But cruel Men do not think they swerve from the Rules of Morality, in loading our hapless Sex with Injury. Thus, continued fie, we parted, as I thought Eternally; eight Days pas sing, the most tedious I ’till then had known:
When,
When, one Morning as I was dreflingi mj Maid in her Attendance mixing a deal of nauseous Flattery; at last asked me, If a Let from beuvile would displease me. My Look giving her encouragement, Ihe presently gav me one from him, to this Purpose.
^LLLVILE to the Level
EMELIA.
returmng home full of a thousand unea^ Thoughts at berinthia’x having so cruelly di f rived me of the only Happiness 1 could or can I fenjible of, from the Moment I firjl beheld all th is Lovely or Dejirahle in Emelia •* Tet in Additk io this unfpeakdble Misfortune, I find the same k Spirits whiejh created in her so fix’d a Severity, hm likewije reprefenfed to my Father my regard for joi 'with so much iu hature, as to occasion his forbiddk Tfie' to entertain a Phought of that inexprejj] Charmer: Which,, alas! is impossible to oh fwhataeri owe to Paternal Duty) it not being inti power to suppress a Passion 1 am certain is eternal rooted in my Soul. Photo appease his present watd full yealoufy, together with your Aunth unnecefi ry Caution, 1 would fain firive to prevail on in pity to' the insupportable Anguish your Abfem hath caused, to consent Ifioould .fee you by the Mem the Bearer will propose. 1 conjure you, do not n fuse this one Requefi:, to him who will sacrifice a Phings to gain the fmallefi Intereji in Emelia^ Heart, it being entirely in her power, to make m the most Wretched or the most Happy of Men, bu not in hoavon’s to make me any other than her
Passionate Adorer,
BELLVILE
The
s
Though I was infinitely charmed to firtd beuvik was not inclin’d slightly to quit the Thotight^ of Love and Emelia; yet when I read that Part, where he desired me to meet him without knowledge j I was Seized with
a Trembling, as if Nature, in a convulsed Strife, was yielding me up to Death; so great a Terror did it fill me with: I being not So young, as to be heedless of my aunt’s Advice, who did not spare to represent to me, with but too much appearance of Reality, that bellvile’s only Aim was, the Ruin of niy Innocence : Which, methoughts, this Letter had but too much the Air of, in desiring to see me in So obscure a manner. Wherefore, with looks of Resentment, giving the Maid to understand I would acquaint my Aunt w\xh. beu vile’s Design, and her being a faithless Partner in it; the Girl being frighted, by a thousand Entreaties endeavour’d to bribe my Silence, confessing, his Valet had prevail’d on her to deliver it to me, and, if it were possible, to get me to a farmer’s about a Mile from berimhia’s, under pretence of a Walk, where that lovely Seducer was to meet me (attended only by his Valet) difguis’d like one of his father’s inferior Servant/^
When she had ended her Tale, and found my Passion to abate, she strove by many insinuating Arts to prevail on me to go; and indeed, said Emelia, it’s hard to describe the War I had within me on this occasion. Love already too powerfully invading, inclin’d me to hearken to everything that favour’d him; but then, on the other side, I dreaded even his
censure of Such a fond Compliance to his Request.

A
quest I remain’d in this Perplexity a whol Day, Several times being ready to acquaint m Aunt; which certainly I had done, had I nc fear’d her proceeding would have been so fc vere, as entirely to haveftopt all Hope of a fu ture Correspondence, the very Thought C which I could not bear; though, fortunately, 3 last. Reputation, and the fear of venturing 0 Dangers I w^s so much a Stranger to, cause me only to answer his Letter to this Effect.
"EMELIA to the Dangerous
pellviley
iknovi not whether I ought to inform you mi what relubance I am forced to deny the geth vous Preserver of my Life.
But your Request: being so contrary to the Rul prescribed me (to guard what is, and ought to h dearer to me than Life) 1 dare not venture on Breach of them.
/ have not acquainted my Aunt with your h ter, because she fears you much more than I d which could you find the Means to vanquish, f might easily obtain from her what you seem so dej. vous of.
Pho I am certain, th Severity of our Dim will cause you soon to lose all Thoughts of Emelia "yet she can never forget how much she is indebted.
beuvile. I am.
Lour obliged humble Servant,
emelij!
«
%
  i,
I own, said Emelia, I was not So careful to hide my Love, as I was afraid too cold an answer would have created in him the like Indifference j and with all the Impatience of a young Heart, too tenderly touch’d with that Passion, I waited my maid’s Return, (who went at the Time he had appointed to meet me.) But she only brought me the discontented News, that beuvile, on reading ray Letter, express’d an angry Concern at my not coming, and would not be persuaded but I ‘ had told Berinthia; whom, he said, he was certain had ordered me to write that Letter : and only coldly presenting his Service, bid her to tell me, I had robb’d my self of the sincereft of Lovers, by depriving him of every means to be Such.
This threw me into Such a disconsolate Grief, that I thought nothing at that time could have equall’d; often repenting my ti moroufnefs in not venturing to See him. But those Thoughts would in a moment change into a just Indignation, to sind on how slight an Occasion he could cease to love. But whatever Assiftance I had from my Resentment, I could not reflect on the Charms of his past Conversation, without sinding, it must be from Time only, that I could hope a Cure for this early, yet too deep Impression; which had So great an Effect on my Temper and Looks, as to occasion Berinthia to take notice of it: who Soon got the Secret from me; and very much approving my Conduct in it, from that moment She descended from the Authority of a Parent, to that of a Friend; taking this opportunity of enforcing, how little trust was to
i8 ore
be put in that faithless Man; who, had you met him (faidfhe) would have received you withal the ardent Transports of expecting Love; but sinding you were not weak enough to fall into his Snare, you See he’ll Soon lose the Thought of you in other Amusements.
But to my Misfortune, pursued that Lady, I found her no ways Prophetic in what concern’d him, who was too violently bent on his fatal Love, to rest ’till he had found a more successful way; which he did, by the afli ftance of a neighbouring Lady : who, according to their Contrivance, as he hath since told ' me, persuaded my Aunt, and me, to go with her to a Person who was lately come into the Country, and was reckoned to have an extraordinary Foresight; the People reporting very strange and surprising Wonders of his Knowledge, though he was Dumb. And that unhappy Inclination to Gaming, I am certain, induced my Aunt to go and inquire of this supposed Seer, whether the Planets would be more favourable to her for the future in that darling a mufement, than they had hitherto proved. But though the Lady had taken care to give beuvik Notice of the Day we design’d to go, yet he did not appear ’till sometime after we were there; that it might look the more like an Accident. Here, said Emelia, I cannot mention his Prediction, which in part happen’d, though I am uncertain, whether I ought to impute it to Chance or Knowledge, * who all the while I was writing ( for he could neither Speek nor Hear) fixing his Eyes earnestly on me, with
much more Attention than he did either on
♦
my Aunt or the Lady, at last wrote my Fate
Once already have you escaped the Dangers of the liquid Element; yet e’er the revolving Sun three times changes the Season to its present State, torn from all you love, in distant Seas and Lands, you
shall struggle with greater Dangers, -- -- -- -- - / see
tempestuous Waves, a Wreck, Daggers, Wounds, Poison, au arm’d with deftrusiion, r^ady to devour you; but Death ftoau not o’ertake you— — — —
will return to your native Land honourably Rich, and at last— — - long — long will it be first } Content, and balmy Peace, shall crown your Days; and when you, childless, think to descend to the Grave, you ftoall be blessed beyond a mother’s Hope, with all blooming Excellencies, in a Son, as fully to complete your fond Maternal foi.
\
There being Something So extraordinary in this Prediction, we were employ’d in talking of it ’till beuvile approach’d; who express’d a Surprise mix’d with a seeming Shame, at being caught in Such a weak Curiosity, and turning it off with a pleasant Ridicule, Said several diverting things of himself on that Occasion, desiring my Aunt to assift him in what Question he should ask: She (tartly answered) bid him inquire whether his miftress would not disappoint his next Assignation? No, {reply’d he, stung at what she said) it ftiall be of more Importance; which is, Whether I Shall ever have the Happiness to obtain her? Accordingly writing to that Purpose, the Seer, or fortuneteller (for I am dubious which to call him) answer’d, Tou will, but not according to your present Desire; though Fate in all Phings seems to crown you with Success, Marriage only excepted;
D 2 whichi
which, could you beware of yealoufy, would be ire expreffibly Happy : But I see a false Friend, robbing you of your too much loved Wife. -- -- -- -- -- -- - Though
I cannot reconcile this Prediction of beuvile’s to the Event; yet what he told my Aunt, and the Lady, fell out exactly as he Said.
At last, this subtle Lover, with a handsome insinuating Complaisance, took Care to inform her, he had a Bill of hers sent him from the
marquiss -- -- -- -- -- - which she had given him for
a Gaming Debt; telling her, the Marquis owing him as much, he had discounted it, intending to wait her Conveniency Tor the Payment; or if (he pleased to make another Trial, whether Chance would give it her back, or double it to him. Though nothing could be more Suitable to berinthia’s Inclinations than this proposal, yet not being insensible of beuvile’^ Drift, she answer’d him. She had already fuffer’d too much to venture any more; adding she would Speedily take care to make him easy. On which, he tore the Bill in her sight; saying, he knew he had a Person of Honour tc deal with, and would not be at the trouble tc keep Paper. This Action of bellvile’s, join’d with his artful Address, So wrought on mj Aunt, as immediately to change her Behaviour and Sentiments of him; which to complete, he having accompany’d us to the lady’s House where Cards being soon called for, he took care to lose back to her most Part of her Debt before they parted. Though he hath since said, he did it with Design; yet he foign’d as dis
Spy sembled a Concern, as if it had been entirely
owing to his ill Luck.
■ ‘ — - VT!.
•• r' ',
- — z
^ I
••*1 J “• XL *.. .>1’P fc— —
40VVV s vvv I
vs sv,
I dwell longer upon this Point, said Emelia, because I would convince you how many various pernicious Ills, Gaming has occasion’d: belivivs Artifice working So powerfully on this unhappy weakness in my Aunt, that contrary to all her former Resolves, I am certain ftie came to Town much sooner than She intended, that he might with the greater freedom visit us without his father’s knowledge: not that he obtain’d this Point, but by a thousand Protestations of the honourableness of his Designs. And at last, I believe, sinding every other Means impossible, he gain’d on my Aunt and me, to consent to a private Marriage, on this hard unhappy Condition, That both of us were bound, by Solemn Oaths, never to reveal it ’till his father’s Death.
I cannot help, said Emelia, on this occasion making a few Reflections on Clandestine Marriages, which Seldom are found Fortunate; it Seeming as if Heaven design’d the Parents Approbation to consirm this Sacred Knot. However fatally Inhuman it may be, to Separate two Hearts united by the pleasing Force of Love; yet, too great a Disparity of Circumstances, after the sirft Transports are over, often causes the person that has the Advantage, to look with a haughty insoience on the other, who by that time is made too much an Equal, calmly to bear diftinguiftiing insults. Not, said Emelia, that I had the least Reason to complain of this sort of Treatment; for bed vile was surprisingly kind to me, ’till the last fatal Shock; no Happiness being comparable to that which I enjoy’d in this Secret Marriage, though I often thought, the stolen Sweets too
much
»
much resembled forbidden ones. And indeed pursued this unfortunate Lady, I am afraid there is little difference; both sides, by the Conceal ment, lying too open to the Allurements of th other Sex, not to cause a Repentance in one C them. And as Men are more liable to change it too frequently happens (they having nothin] to reproach them, but the hidden Stings o their Sleepy Consciences) they leave the unhappy Wife abandon’d and despis’d, unde the reproachful Title of a forsaken Mistress Which might have proved my unhappy Condi tion, had I claimed a Right, he had too mud the jpower to conceal. The Inducement, whicl made my Aunt So readily yield to this fata Match, being at her Death difcover’d, whicl happen’d in less than a Year after; I chei found, to my unspeakable Sorrow, all my For tune squander’d away, by her gratifying tha cruel Inclination to Gaming; And though, whei I acquainted beuvile, in Tears, with my Loss he feem’d to comfort me, by despising it; ye afterwards, he laid hold on the Indigence o my Circumstances to complete my Ruin. Noi but for the present he feem’d. the most tendei and indulgent, that ever wore the Name o Husband; out of his Allowance taking care t( Supply me in such a manner, as to create nc Suspicion of my fortune’s being leffen’d, whicl he advis’d Should be conceal’d.
At berinthia’s Death, I was above half gom with Child, which was conceal’d by the Pretence of my going out of Town on my Aund Affairs. My then bewitchingly tender Belhili omitted nothing that might express the heighi of Love, it being impossible to tell you witl
what
  zj
what Joy he receiv’d the little beuvile in his Arms, saying, he was the only Rival that should Share with me his Affections. But alas!
I was not long to possess so great a stock of Happiness, the remembrance whereof is still pleasing, amidst the many' Woes that environ’d it.
But before I draw to the cruel Scene of our Separation, I must mention an Accident which he thought would have furniffied him with the Means to accomplish the treacherous Design it he had long been breeding to get rid of me:
It happen’d that as I was with him one Night at the Play, in a Diftiabillee, placed, as we i magin’d, from public View, we were perceiv’d by a Friend of his named Marimont; who, though I was afterwards extremely fobliged to his Friendship, I cannot help thinking, the Character he had obtain’d, of a bright Genius, blended with an unqueftion’d Judgement, was more owing to a Satrical ill natur’d Turn, than a true genuine Wit, it being mostly im ployed in Ridiculing not only the Vices, but Foibles of our Sex : And having too often met with Success on that Theme, he carried it to so great a height, as to assert, we were all lit,, ^
better than Idiots. This, as I learned afterwards, had created Several disputes between him and beuvile; whose pretended good Opinion of my Sense, caused in him a general Complaisance to most of the Fair, on that score.
But whatever marimont’s Pretences were, there was Something he had seen in the unhappy Emelia, on that slight view, which in spite of the despicable Opinion he had indulged of
z4 The Frudi:.
our Sex, caused him to resolve on being ac quainted with me: And visiting beuvile th( succeeding Morning, immediately began to rally him, as if he thought he had an Amoui with some young person of Distinction;; I was indeed pretty enough to atone foi the Soft Nonsense he supposed made up a pan of the Entertainment. On which, said th griev’d Emelia, my false, my greatly unworthj beuvile, laying his Design deeper than the o ther’s ludicrous Wit could reach, pretended tc be So alarm’d, that he fell into a warm Vindication of my good Sense: Which the other opposing in his usual Satirical manner, th( Debate at length ended in a Wager, That il after three Hours Conversation, Marimont did not yield, I was a Person of as excellent Sens( as ever he had met in one so young, beuvll would forfeit double what the other had laid Thus you see, said Emelia, how those different Designs were working for my Ruin I Marimm falling into this Wager, to get acquainted wist me; whilst the other as artfully enforced it, to be rid of me: dissembling to me the introducing of Marimont^ as a Person whose con verlation I should be infinitely diverted with; and giving it the obliging turn, of still sinding something new to amuse me.
When they came, beuvile by Chance, or the more to enforce his Design, with a prodigious Gaiety addressing his Discourse to me; I happen’d to answer him with a freedom that caused Marimont immediately to yield up the Wager before me. That false Deceiver assured me, the only Reason why he did not acquaint
me with it, was, that he imagin’d I Should be
Ju fjy JL j u Mn Jf
over awed with the apprehension of having my Conversation criticised i by which means I might lose my native Sprightliness. Though continued Emelia, I was not very much pleased at his exposing me, yet I fondly imputing it to the extraordinary Opinion he had of me, imagined it an Act of indiscreet excessive Love
Marimont from that time frequently visiting me, I at Iasi began to fear from his assiduous Complaisance, and some unwary Words, that he had Views very unfit for me to encourage And without mentioning my Suspicion to bell vile, I was often denied to him 5 and a Month had pasi, in which I was entirely freed from him by his going into the Country, when finding this Scheme did not take on my side, resolved to proceed in a more abrupt Manner.
One Evening, the Iasi fatal Time I ever Saw him, this false, yet lovely Deceiver, who in all his Actions had hitherto rather fliew’d in creafe of Love, came to me, his visage pale, and every Feature exprefs’d an inward an guilh: perhaps a little touched with remorse at the inhuman Act he was about putting in execution, or the more artfully to complete his Purpose ^ was Seated for a considerable Time, he looked very earnestly at me without Speaking a Word. Which surprising me, together with the disorder I fancied appear’d in his Looks, that feem’d infinitely concern’d, I began to inquire of his Health : to which he coldly veply’d, he was well; and still keeping his Eyes fix’d on me, Tell into a violent Invective on the Inconstancy of Women, alarm’d isat this strange Behaviour in him, who never before had express’d the least turn
P A R T IL E that
that way, I ask’d him, what late Instances he had met with of that nature, to occasion his expressing so feeling a Resentment, as if nigh ly touch’d by some unworthy Usage?? which this artful Disiembler reply’d, I am sofar from fearing any Injuries of that kind, that I think myself blessed beyond all that Imagination can form into Willies, of your sex’s Excellences — you being attended with every Charm that can engage or Secure a Heart. Besides, added he, if all my Senses are not deceitful, you love me too, far beyond my desert — your Actions seem to be accompanied with So open a Candour, as if your superior Understanding scorn’d, or was an entire Stranger to all the trifling mean Diflemblings too Srequent in your Sex. But continued he, making Pauses as he went on) you may deceive melt is not impossible— — you may be very false— — that charming Sincerity of your Soul, which has appeared to be So closely united to mine, that you could not help imparting to me all you knew, as to your other Self, may be a Subtle Disguise to disarm Distrust from prying into blacker Crimes you would not have known. — Yet Heaven is my Witness, pursued he, I had rather still be thus pleasingly deceived, than one moment endure the tormenting Thought, that my Emelia Should or can
be Faithless- -- cannot tell you, said that
unhappy Lady, with what an amazing Terror this discourse of his sill’d me : Being frighten’d, I relied. For heaven’s Sake, let not that Fiend, Jealousy, possess you; for though it’s said to be the constant attendant of a Love too violent, yet I am’certain it must be a Love
that
A. AV W
that cannot be approved by reason: elfe, how is it possible to harbour So ill an Opinion of : hat we are naturally so ihuch inclined to ike? And if you have any Cause of distrust,
2dded /, do not conceal it from me, who am : oo Secure in my Innocence, to fear the blackest a.speriion Malice can invent: Or if any Libet:
: of mine is difpleasing, let me but know my Dftence, that I may change it to what may be note agreeable to my beuvile. To whicft : hat lov’d Deceiver replied, I believe you, lor perplex yourself with any Fears, it being mpossible for me long, or indeed at all, to ' intertain a doubt of your Faith, Truth, and; verlafting Love : what I" have Said, is d\^ir}g o a Fit of the vapoursj which I sihd already >egins to disperse; immediately turning off his discourse to another Subject. Yet, me houghts, by starts, he wasuneafyt after asking with an uncommon Eatneftnefsj whether ’ loved him. In the Morning, he acquainted northeast, he, was obliged to go out of Town for hree Days, and begged me not to stir out till le returned : which, though I readily Complied vith, amaz’d at the Serloufnefs with which le prefs’d So small a Triflej J could not help elling him I imagin’d he had Some rnyfterious lonceal’d Mean ing info earnestly entreating such ind insignificant Thing. But he answering, bathe was only polsess’djfe hoped, with a Foolish Fear, that Some ill Fate would attend ue if I did not comply with his Request;; lis leave, still importuning me on no Occasion : o go out. tilt he came back : Which alas 1 said he wretched Emelia, was to be along eternal Never. .•
E 2: Thus
« 4-
§ki\ma V JL xjiv
I
Thus his feign’d Fears fill’d me with real ones; ordering my self to be deny’d to all Visitors, I retired to my Closet, and feriousiy reflecting on the strangeness of his late Behaviour resolved not to rest, when next I Saw him, till I had difcover’d fully the Cause of this unusual proceeding in him. these uneasy Thought' employing the Day, at last the Night approached, in which the treacherous Belhil was to act his Scene of execrable Villainy offending me a Letter in these Words,
♦ * • * •
. s
%
i. • «
V My Dear Emelia,
VINCE 1 saw you, an unlucky.accidenfkf ^ me: I am forced, contrary to my morning in treaties, to beg you would not delay a Moment, k some immediately with the Bearer of this to ms my feeing you, being of the utmost Importance..
'know I need not say any more, to hasten Emelia
her Impatient
BELLVILE
9
I
iqp not frighten yourself, but when you come, in Jim V of your eternal Adorer, inquire for Gayfly youi
know my Reason for it, when I see you,
‘ * '
I no Sooner read this Letter, but too mucf terrified to have any assistance from Reason, hurried away with the Bearer, without taking any of my Servants with me; imagining something of consequence had befell him, perhap, unfit for them to know: Andj accordingti imy Direction, asking for Gayfly, I was receivei by an ancient Person, who told me he woiil* be there immediately. And staying not abov
JL mjh X XV U m
two Minutes with me in a Parlour, that had the appearance of a gentleman’s House, left me by myself, where I heard Several confused Voices whispering in the next Room : And So far did my frighten’d prepoffefs’d Imagination carry me, that I thought I heard beuvile, louder than the rest, say. Let me go, for I will stab her false Heart this moment. On which, I made to a Door, that open’d into that Room; buc finding it fast, the noise made in twilling the Bolt, brought the Person, who before had spoke to me, into the Room; who told me, if I would walk upstairs, the Gentleman would follow me. I doing as she had desired, was indeed immediately followed by a ridiculous Fop, who making a careless Bow, approach’d in a minuet ftep to the looking glafs, where singing and viewing himself for about the space of ten Minutes, he at last turning to me. Said, May the Furies blast me, if I don’t think you prodigious handsome. Provoked at the familiar Pertness of the Coxcomb, together with the concern at not feeing beuvile, I made to the Door; which finding lock’d on the outside, so added to the Terrors that already had got polsession of me, that like one bereft of Sense, I immediately fell a rapping and stamping, I am certain, loud enough to alarm the whole Neighbourhood. But no one appearing, and my Fears and Vexations increasing by the fop’s forward Nonsense, I wanted little of beating my Brains out against the wainscot; crying, and tearing my Linen, Sometimes in Tears lamenting myself, I would say, Where is beuvile! — — what does au this mean / — — sure / : betray’d — mdone^ ^ r and he is murder’d, or
elfe
M ^ 1..
elfe / am certain he would have been here. To which the pert insignificant Fool, — without Sense or Comprehension of my inexpressible Concern, would answer, Phen beuvile is th happy Man, — yet, there are Persons the Ladies infinitely prefer before him : - — Not but that he is an accomphfbed Gentleman — for so negligent a one — but you are so passionate, there is no speaking to you. — vvbo has provoked you? — Confound me, if 1 don’t think you are a charming Creature. — Thta returning to the idoliz’d Mirror, and reviewing himself, he would Say, his Wig sat abominably today— — peviue had fancy’d the Air excellently suitable to his Features and Complexion; only he was grown a little rustic of late, with hard drinking, which he vow’d had " caused his Teeth to look of a perfect Aurora
Colour.
Though I defpised the Coxcomb too m^chj to think anything he Said worth answering j yet, vex’d at his beuvile with Such
contempt, I renewed my .Diffractions to get away i little imagining he was doing an Act So far exceeding this fop’s innocent Folly, as must sire all that hear it with an abhorrence of him.. In. short, after teasing myself, and 1 believe the Fool, above an Hour, vowing il I could not get thence, I would, throw myself out of the Window, he at last proved '> my Deliverer, i?y calling up the People; and saying, they had left hini with ^ “d Woman, diftractedly in love with Beltvile. And thenj asking them where the person was, that I came to speak with, they pointed to the Beau. But on ray Saying, tho’ I inquired for Gayfly, beuvile was the Person I wanted; they answered
im r K U D is. 2 £
fwered me, they knew none of that name. At which being extremely frighten’d, to find myself in a strange House I knew nothing of,
I immediately run downstairs, and making to the Street, called a Coach, and hurried home.
But my hapless Fate, which deftin’d me to endless Miseries, ordered it So cruelly, that whilst I was absent, beuvile had been there j and not finding me, pretended So great a rage, as to stab a Picture of mine, that hung in the Room, in several places, calling me by names too gross to be repeated; wiftiing me there, to be used in the Same manner. And would to Heaven, pursued that afflibed Lady) I had; for then Infensibility, or more perfect Happiness, would have Succeeded that short Pain; whereas cruelly stabbed, by his inhuman Falsehood,
I feel each day more lively Pangs, than Racks, or Daggers can give, without the relieving hand of Death, to ease my eternal Inquietudes.
I cannot express to you the confused variety of my Thoughts on this fatal beginning of my Misery ■ — ■ — that beuvile should be false or treacherous, not once entering my thoughts; I imagined I had had some Trick imposed on me : And passing the Night rest less, as if extended on Thorns and Briers, I waited, with the Impatience of a Wretch condemn’d expecting a Reprieve, the approach of Morn; and beuvile, to clear my Innocence.
But alasl instead of ought to consolate my distracted Uncertainty, I received the following Lines, to complete my Miseries.
4 <
t
f
Th
^ ^ rjs. tx j u jc.«
The wronged pellvilej to the u
worthy perfidious base EMELIA.
/
A FP E R such apparent Proofs of your falj hood, / think I pay too much refpeb in letti you know I am even acquainted with it' — did 11, intend, at the same time, to pumfb you, if poffik as you deserve;; you to make a Trade what you have hitherto pursued only for Pleafm where your tainted Beauty willfoon become the Sco and Derijion of Fools, more despicable than him y have injured me with : pvhilfi Infamy, Difeaj and Poverty, shall fink you beneath all Pity, a make you more wretched than J wish to see you.
At first 1 thought indeed to have ended you a, your matchless ivickednefs, by a thousand Jiabs that false Heart; but / fiall leave you to Heavi and the Phorns of your guilty Conscience, for ha ing so vilely injured him whose doatmg folly nem knew a Pleasure equal to that of heaping Bleffth ' on you. — But now / will turn them to Curses, a if you dare exert yourself, will make you a terril ^ Example of Ingratitude and Perfidiousness.
Do not pretend to answer or make dijfemhlii Excuses, which I don’t question but you are intern oufly contriving. 1 this moment shall quit tl Town, and with it, all thoughts of you for ever.
Ah! (said Emelia) what an amazing Stop: dity was I Seized with, on the reading C this Letter 1 I remained deprived of my Sen Ses some Hours, yet in that space of Infensibilit; I was happier than when my returning Sense made me more lively to feel the matchlel
Tortures, Sorrows and inexpressible Anguissi
hav
Tm X'R U DE. 55
have ever since endured. But not being able to bear the insupportable Thought, that beuvile could be false, I rather fondly flattered myself that Some busy Person had contrived a wicked piece of mischief to part us; and calling to mind, how earnestly he had entreated me not to stir out that unfortunate day, I began strictly to examine the Letter that drew me forth. But there I found every Tittle resembled his hand, with the particular Cypher that he writ in all his Letters to me. This drove me beyond all that can be imagin’d of frantic Rage and Grief, to sind he Should avow his Treachery in so bare fac’d a manner, and then insult me in so cruel a one, without leaving me the least glimmering of Hope to vindicate myself, and convince him of the Injustice and Barbarity of his Afpersion : which he was' but too Sensible I would, doubtless, pursue; it, being impossible, by all my strict Inquiry, to trace the least Shadow of him, or where he was gone. Nor was I without the Thoughts of examining the People where he sent for me; but the Confusion that Hurry had occasioned, together with the Treatment of the Sop, and the Fright of not meeting him, had caused me neither to rnind the Place, or ask the Names of the Inhabitants. •
Thus left destitute of all Means to relieve myself, or Hope of Consolation, I thought to go and ease my insupportable Load of Sorrows, by moaning over my little beuvile: Buc oh, added this unfortunate Lady, fully to complete and, sinilh the unrelenting Malice of my Fate, I found this inhuman Father had convey’d him for ever from me. Unable to bear this last,
P A R TII. F this
X KUDE.
this more than inhuman, this deadly Stroke, I swoon’d at the dreadful hearing of it; It being long before they brought me to myself, on the Bed which they laid me, without reserve, I gave vent to the insupportable Anguish of my Soul in bitter complainings to Heaven, of my too, too barbarous Fate; the unrelenting Cruelty of the Father and this inhuman merciless,, from my lovely, my only Child, more dear to me than Life, when attended with Happiness. But alas 1 said Emelia, pursuing her Discourse, in tears. Complaints and never ceasing Lamentations were all the relief I ever was to sind, • it being impossible to describe to you the many torturing Agonies that hgrafs’d my Soul, the most lively Imagination being too poor to conceive any Part of what I then endured.
doubtless, answer d Bellamira, your aihicti bns were unutterable, and have already foin fected me, that I feel the Swelling Flood labour upwards to bear yours company. Not but, added that young Lady, I must have a fuller Conviction of beuvile’s being false, before I can think any other, but that there was some cursed Engine of mischief, that undermined and ihatter’d this tender Union of your conjugal Happiness. You will soon be convinced, answer’d Lmelia, that destroying Engine was himself. But, said Bellamira, interrupting her did you never hear afterwards, what became of your little Son? Yes, reply’d that Lady, not long after I learnm from Marimont, Death, in a little time, made eternal the barbarous Separation the Father begun > taking him Before his Innocence could be wounded with the galling
Knowledge,
[knowledge of ow ing his Being to the worst of Slen, and feeling the injurious Weight of his own ind hapless mother’s Wrongs j whilst Nature ind Fortune, oppose every Means of Revenge or ledrefs. But to pursue my dismal Story, aid that Lady, I pafs’d ten days bewilder’d in his distracting Grief, when Marimont, return ng from the Country, made me a Visit, ifter some little Discourse, my Impatience >eing on the rack, I began to inquire if he had ately heard ought of beuvile. He answered, hat he heard he went out of Town in such a lurry, as prevented his taking any Leave of his Mends, or letting them know where to write 0 him; tho’ perhaps on inquiry, he might nd him out. I then, difguising as much as lossible my uneasiness, told him I would take it s a favour, if he could get a Letter convey’d 0 him, relating to a Business of importance, ' hat required his being Speedily acquainted vith. To which Marimont answered, he would mploy that Evening to learn where he was; one; desiring me to get my Letter ready gainst the next day, he then intending to vait on me with the Success of this Affair. \.ccordingly, on the morrow, he came and told northeast, he had found out beuvile was gone to his 'father’s, who had sent for him on some earnest Jusinefs : and, if I pleased, he would convey ny Letter under a Cover of his. This being what I desired, was immediately done; but on urther Talk, he intimated beuvile*s Speedy Journey into the Country, was thought to : ompleat a Marriage his Father had lately pro 3ofed to him; which being a severe consirma don of his late perfidious Treatment, it roused
F z ’ au
r ^ W ^ mlrnm V
ail my late insupportable Griefs to so great a height, that unable to sustain the Shock,! foade to the Window, giving Vent to a Floo< of Tears, I found were not to be fupprefs’d But alas 1 I could not so artfully conceal them as to pafs unheeded by Marimont, who civil! offered to withdraw. But it being impossible t support so great a Weight of conceal’d Woes without having one Friend to consult, to eafi or cheer me with the least faint hope; an believing he had already discovered too mud I flopp’d him; saying. Hold, I conjure you, fia Grief and Shame hindering me from proceedinj I pointed him to a Chair, and, trembling, fe myself into another, without speaking for soir time; ’till he broke the Silence, by saying, 1 fear’d the News he had unhappily mentionec had caused the fatal Concern he perceived which he endeavoured to moderate, by ir forcing the Uncertainty of its being true. Bi I answering, the guilty beuvile had ahead given me but too convincing Proofs ofh Falsehood, to doubt this Truth, he expresied a Amazement that is not to be represented b Words j Saying so many handsome things ( his unquestioned Honour, Justice and Regar for me, as led me to let him into the whol Affair (my Marriage only excepted) tho’ De cency obliged me to own, too Solemn Engage ments had pafs’d between us, for him to breal without fearing - the avenging Powers woul reach, and greatly punish his Perjuries. An when I related his late Transaction, an Showed him both the Letters, he, like yot believed some cruel Enemy had poflefs’d him t
my disadvantage: persuading me to moderat
m
my Grief, ’till I had an Answer, which he doubted not would restore me to my past Tranquillity. But oh! it was sofar from affording me any Relief, that he only vouchsafed to send me word, he had committed my Letter to the Flames unread, intending to serve everything in the same manner that came from me j which redoubling all my distracted Despair, Marimont, touched with so generous a Pity at my forlorn helpless state, undertook a Journey to beuvile, on purpose to explain this Riddle of his Usage.
A whole Fortnight pafs’d in that cruel uncertainty, tormented by a thousand Fears, Anxieties, and stupendous Sorrows; yet a few glimmering Hopes still buoy’d me up from quite finking beneath the Weight, ’till marimonps Return, whose Looks declaring his Success, it was sometime before either of us spoke. At last, with much difficulty, I rallied up Courage enough to bid him begin, and let me know the utmost Malice of my Fate, which could not be worse than I expected; and if it is possible ( pursued 1) tell it me in Terms that may turn me into Stone, who cannot suffer more than I already endure. Would to Heaven (answered he) what I had to say, was as pleasing as I fear, — as I know it must be otherwise: : — to flatter or disguise, would but deceive you into snore deadly bitter Sorrows. lio(faidl) go on, — goon — and give me to know it in the most terrifying manner, I am afraid I shall have Life to hear
you out: -- -- -- But go on ( continued /) no
Miseries can be greater than what I now feel. To which he reply’d, after some Pause, I dare
not.
not. -- -- -- And yet you must know it. — — ^
In short, with a reluctant Difficulty, he acquainted me, trembling whilst he related it, that that more than barbarous Man received his Discourse of me in a ludicrous manner, hinting as if I had bribed him by some extraordinary favour to become my Advocate; and that, as he never designed me other than for his Amusement, he thought he had done me a particular favour, in bringing me acquainted with a Gentleman, who seemed So inclined to Serve me: but I at sirft not understanding him, he had taken more proper Methods to be rid of me. And as for the Letter I pretended he had wrote, he was very indifferent what I thought of it; only this, he would affure me, I should never have it in my power to make the like pretence again. man mont added, that when he intimated to beuvile^ I talked as if too solemn Engagements had pafs’d between us to be broke, by ought but the vilest Perjury; he flew into a Scurrilous Rage, saying, At that rate, perhaps I mighi pretend I was married, which he would take care to punish with all the Severity of the Law, if I but dared to whisper it with the Softeft breath; retorting, all my Pretences ol that nature must be indeed Supported by a dam’nd Perjury. In that ( reply*d /, hardl] able to utter so muck) he has declared the Truth; But it is enough ( pursued I) I need no more. — I could proceed no further; a Giddinesi Seizing me, I thought I heard marimonps Voice a great distance off, and yet his Words Sounded on my Head like the incessant Strokes ol Hammers; I was insensible what more became
The 1 R u D E. 39
me of me, tho’ I learned afterwards, with ich difficulty they got me to Life, it being ove a Fortnight e’er I diftinguifh’d the bright : ams of Light from Darkness;; yet my : urning Senses were so cruel, to bring beu le first to my Remembrance, and all that he d done. But Youth and Nature assisting in ight of my insupportable Affliction, I at last zr come it. Tho’ it is certain, it was to ^arimonts Friendship I owed my Prefervationj 10 in that helpiess State took care to have 2 visited by the best Physicians, with other rticular Obligements, * which tho’ I took care return when I recover’d, would have been Act of excellent Generosity, had I not af rwards perceived it was not without the iew of being paid by a far too lavish Price, was perfectly well recover’d before he would : reafe my Afflictions by acquainting me with e death of my Son, who sicken’d of the lall pox immediately on the change of his urfe; and I suppose, for want of Care, was \; Heaven thinking sit to take his Innonce, and reserve me only for much Sorrow
d afflicting Misery- -- -- already to
! within the view of Want, in addition to all e rest, my Furniture and a few Jewels being. I had to support me, the dreadful Thoqghts what would become of me, often interpo* d amidst my Mournings for my lost, myfalfe^ jt my still loved beuvile.
In this forlorn wretched State, my only onfolation and Refuge was to beg the hea; nly Assistance for Patience; whose Mercy )t quite deserting me, soon pointed out a ay to preserve me from perishing under the
J
40 The prvbz.
meagre Gripe of Poverty, tho’ my other k; fortunes were to know no end. It happen I had a Relation lately married to a Merch: who was going to the Indies na conlidera Employment, and she paying me a Visit, take her leave before she went, luckily let fi she would be glad of a Gentlewoman, wh Conversation was agreeable, to go along w her, tho’on the Terms of providing fori I am certain it was not aimed at me, ye immediately took the Offer; then informing i how my Aunt had left me, adding a later L had reduced me to such Extremities, as make me think her Offer very providential, She would accept of me: Which she did w: a great deal of Pleasure, telling me I must p pare myself with all imaginable Speed, d being obliged to go to their Ship in less th a Week. Accordingly I sold my Furnitu: and discharged my Servants, without acquaii ing any one with my Design;; marmaa late Behaviour having disobliged me, tho’ happen’d to visit me the Morning before went out of Town, I only told him, th hoping the Air and some Company I had cho to go into the Country with, would divert m I had took this Opportunity to retrench n Expenses, intending to return in less than Month. He feem’d very much to oppose at blame what I had done, nor would he pa from me, till I had told him where to wri to me; omitting no proffers of his Friendfhl to invite my stay. But finding him troubl Some in his Importunity, I directed him write to me to the Town where the Shiplaj which being populous, prevented his havii
j.kfv X K U D JS.
any Thought of my intended Voyage. Thus I took leave of Marimont, and began my Journey, or rather Voyage, with my Cousin, difguising as much as possible the inward Anguish of my Soul. The inhuman Usage of beuvile, like a secret Gangrene, prey’d on my Mind so Severely, that I could not have any taste of Happiness, or even enjoy the common Comforts of Life. ’tis certain, beuvik would not have dared to act so arch a piece of trea chery, had Redress been within my power. But had I been inclined to break through my Solemn Promise to the contrary, yet my aunt’s Death, and his procuerment of the Clergyman, ^ whose very Name I was ignorant of. Love causing me then without any Suspicion entirely to confide in him; kept me from so doing. And indeed when I was thoroughly convinced of his unparallel’d Baseness, with Resentment great as my Injuries, I chose rather wandering to rely on Providence, than even be where his offensive Name might wound my Ears, and have him still triumph o’er me in his wickedness, bereft of every Means to right myself. Though I had not the power to leave him for ever, without sending him the following Lines, directed to his father’s, putting them into the Post, just as the Spreading Sails summon’d us on board.
E MEL I A to the Unjust, and greatly Barbarous BELL VIEE.
JO^EARLESS read these Lines, which are the lafi you will ever receive from the greatly wrong’d
Emelia; who was always too compliant to your P A R T II G De fires.
(Lit Am J K. U D i:,.
Dejires, not to affijl you in this last, of an eternai Separation, which ftoail be as far as distant Sem can sever us. '
Pho* / suppose you expeb I ftoould upbraid yom matchless Falsehood in au the bitter Perms our in jured Sex pour fonh the Anguish of their Souls,., will endeavour to suppress the tortured Anguish oj mine; and only tell you, your Contrivance was a. Mean, as Inhuman; first, to draw me out by C Letter, then in a succeeding one, feriouflj preteru me the Aggrejfor.
Nor am I insensible you have secret Fears that. fioould aloud proclaim 'my Right, and confront you though destitute of all Proof, but your faithless Selj But be not tormented with any Apprehensions on tha score, since I have lost the Heart that gave m bellviie’.y Hand, there is nought elfe worth m Value.
Tet thou wer t once dearer to me than any thin the World can give me in Recompense for thy Loji It was too hard, too severe, to rob me of a Hush an and a Son in one Day: Phe lovely little Bellvil might have been some Consolation to his afflibh Mother; / could oer him have mourned my Sorrows, his smiling Innocence would have eased I some Degrees the mighty Anguish of my Heart. Bt perhaps you thought it Wisdom to dispatch his ten der Infancy, whose growing Touth might often cat his injured Mother to your Remembrance, andhxi created uneasy Thoughts.
But be not too confident. Repentance may cm too late for atoning your Injuries, and Death tnc long before seize on the wretched
emeliil
. Th
The dispatching this Letter being the lait thing I did on Shore, we all hasted to the Ship, and began our Voyage; the Wind from the moil favourable Point filling our Sails, which, like expanded Wings, flew through the liquid Elements of Air and Water. But O! Bellamira, pursued that fair Unfortunate, what were, or how Shall 1 make you sensible of the inexpressible Anguish, Grief, and Misery which I endured, standing on the Deck! Tho’ I was the less minded, moll in the Ship being touch’d with Concern to leave their native Country, exposed to the Dangers of the inconstant Seas. But my Afflictions were of a deeper Strain than to have any sense of such Trifles; my false, barbarous, yet my still lov’d beuvile, only posi'efs’d my Thoughts : nor could I see the Shore behind me, without imagining it a Sepulchre, where all my Joys were buried. My little beuvile, on whose budding Charms my fond Hopes were fix’d, already, like the fhort'lived Rose, was mouldering into Dull | the Fathers baneful Perjury having blasted the Tree, and beauteous Blosibm : And whilst.. Tears in torrents flowed down, complaining thus to myself, I said. How hapless is my Fate! mufti then never more behold beuvile again! the only Delight of my .fond Heart: How cai>
I part from him and live! — — 'Then calling to mind his transcendent Baseness, Resentment for a moment would come to my aid; buc alas, in vain I The Softer Impression by which he had first bound me his, would still prevail o’er II my Efforts to drive the tortur’d Anguish
of Love and him from my Breast; Though I would
G s ofcets
4
often Say to myself, Whatever I Suffer, beuvik cannot know it; he cannot now triumph in my Misery, as he cruelly threaten’d. But then my wandering Thoughts still flying to what most had delighted them, when I fix’d my Eyes on the roaring Ocean, I would think, Is it possible that beuvile, the same generous beuvile, who, fearless of Dangers, dived into the bosom of the Deep to save Emelia, — should in so inhuman a way force her to wander on a more merciless one, to avoid being devoured by the meagre Hand of Poverty, which he has turned her loose to? — —
But this tedious Relation (pursued Emelia) having too much revived my past Sorrows, I will defer the rest till after Dinner; being certain we are not far from it; whilst Bellamira, whose Attention had hitherto hindered her, began to express her Detestation and Horror at her husband’s Usage, saying, his unparallel’d wickedness exceeded all that could be thought of unworthy or base in that Sex. But Emelia looking on her with a discontented Smile, said, You are but little acquainted with the Worlds to imagine beuvile*s faithless Treatment without Example; for were all the Wrongs of our hapless Sex to be publifb’d, the famous Alexandrian Library would be by far too narrow to contain the numberless Millions of our repeated Wrongs from Mankind, who Successively have laid hold of our great Credulity, to undo us. The young Beginnings of Love are ail agreeable, constant, tender, and Seemingly sincere; whilst the Conclusion ends in Neglect, Scorn, and too, too often Hatred; of. which my beuvile is a cruel Instance. His
i ' »
eager
HB •
eager Love pursued me sirft with endless blef sings, which being lelfen’d by easy polsession,
I soon became an Obstacle to his new Desires; Th is, join’d with the dread of his father’s Displeasure, caused him to look on me at length as the loath’d Object that opposed his Happiness;; having no Fears, but those which might arise from His too drouzy Conscience, you see how he Shook me oft without re morfe or Pity.
Emelia s Discourse was here interrupted by their arrival at the Inn, where their Dinner was prepared; which no sooner was over, but they pursuing their Journey, Seated as before, and Bellamira renewing her Solicitation, Emelia continued her Relation in these Words;
With prosperous Gales, Surpassing our Hopes, we had already reach’d the Bay of Bengal, and were almost within the ken of our intended Haven Pegu, whtn the faithless Elements changing into raging Storms, made us sensible of their Instability;; impetuous Winds, in spite of our Mariners Skill or Opposition, driving us athwart, above a hundred Leagues: The Rain, Thunder, and Lightning were So extreme, as hardly to distinguish the Day from the dark Hours allotted for Rest. The be wilder’d Sailors, thus deprived of Stars and Sun, their friendly Guides, at last perceived themselves drawn in by an Eddy, or Stream, So violently, as must soon inevitably dafti them bn a Rock, or Swallow them in ^ick fands; Hopeless, and past all other Redress, we endeavour’d to save our Lives in the Longboat; but finding we were not far from Land, sirft fired Guns as a signal of Distress 5 which
proved
4
JL rye X j u jli
proved So successful, that the Inhabitants made
from the Shore in their Canoes, which the) turning and winding Suitably to the Nature ol the Stream, providentially preferred us.
It was then, pursued Emelia, that I began ' to see what Death was, the terrors having ever since been infix’d in my Mind : For tho’ one would have thought my unparallel’d Misfortunes should have made me look with Contempt on the outrageous Winds and Sea, con spiring to devour me, the Effect was very different : In those Moments, all my Offences crowding with lively horror to my Remembrance, I trembled t the thought of so Speedy an Appearance before the divine Tribunal; yet that dread was not comparable to the fear which Would often intermix of Annihilation; that all the noble Faculties which now actuated this Frame, were to cease, and leave the then inanimated Clay to moulder into Duff: Never rnore to think, or be thought on, was more terrible to me, than'all the Miseries my Imagination could form, of Here or Hereafter; which makes me wonder, how Atheisis can be so fond of indulging and Spreading that empty Notion, so disagreeable to our very Natures.
But to return from this little Digression to my Story : We soon, by the Assisiance of th Inhabitants, gain’d the Shore, where Crowds Surrounded us, gazing with no less Admiration, than we on them. Their Features, Language, Complexion, Dress, and Turn of Limbs, were so very different from the Europeans, I could not help imagining but that I had already pafs’d through the cold iron Hand of Death; and was wafted o’er by the dreadful
Ferryr
jbm. f«^w Jkl« ilpw ^
ferry men, to the frightful Regions of another World. But tho’ their Looks, Gestures, and Garb, were less pleasing than those Custom had habited me to; yet with Humanity more agreeable they brought us Some of their choicest Food, which dire Necessity caused us to receive with rapturous Joy, tho’ no less strange, and barbarous, than themselves. The very next Day we were convey’d to the City the king’s chief Ministers resided in; on the way, we saw our Ship Split on a Rock, andl the Natives in their Canoes endeavour to gain as much of the Spoil, as the cruel Seas would render back : which melancholy Prospect caused the Joys our reprieved Lives had sill’d us with, to cease;; my Cousin and her Husband, whose All in that cruel Rack was devour’d. This made our Hunger and Want of Necesiaries, prey with greater Torments on our Minds j not knowing whether Fortune would allot us to Death, or Slavery : Yet in this helpless Condition, my Cousin had infinitely the Advantage of me; her tender huf band Supported her in all her Sorrows, while my forlorn Self feem’d abandon’d by all on Earth and Heaven.
We remain’d three Days after we were brought to the City (our Food and Lodging Severely hard) before we Saw the Governor ( who in that Language is styled Emer xemla } as being next in Dignity to the King of golcon da, on whose Territories we were 5 which bordering on the Empire of the Mogul, their Customs, Laws, and Religion are much the Same, only an inferior Monarchy. Yet the King and his Favourites are immensely rich.
Swallow
45 T r R U D E.
Swallowing up the Food, Liberty, and Happiness of the People: Millions of laborious Mortals contributing to make one luxuriousiy Great. The Habit of the Governor was as surprisingly grand, as the Peoples are meanly wretched; his Turbant and Robes Sparkling with Gold and Jewels radiantly bright: He relied on a fine Perjian Carpet, a Canopy of the richest Atlas umbrella falhion o’er spread ing him; whilst Several handsome Youths, with feather’d Sans, allay’d the Heat of the Air and Sun. He spoke to us by a Portuguese Interpreter, which my cousin’s Husband understanding i Emer zemla made a very particular Inquiry of what lately had happen’d of Importance in our Nation, which he feem’d to have more knowledge of, than could be expected from any one in such remote Parts; and indeed, methoughts, there was something in his Air and Looks, that did not altogether resemble the other Natives; when perceiving him, ( whilst my Cousin and the Interpreter were discoursing) to six his Eyes steadily on me, I was so frighten’d at it, tho’ I knew not why, that being already opprefs’d and faint with the Hardships I had undergone, I sunk down, and fell on the Floor without any signs of Life : Which caused those that were nighest me, to cry out, I was dead, ( mentioning me hy my Name)) The Governor compassionately taking notice of my Disorder, having sirft recommended my recovery to the care of his Attendants, began to ask several Questions concerning me, even so particular, as that of my Birth, Family, and present Condition; which having learned by the Interpreter, he
nrrlprprl
  49
©rdered the chief Pasiengers with my Cousins and Self to be lodg’d in the Same royal Palace he resided in; where, with great Respect, we were accommodated with all the choicest Varieties the Country could afford, presenting my Cousin and me with the richest Indian Silks and Chinees, for our Clothes.
In this uncertain State we continued a Fortnight, our Misfortunes being Somewhat allay’d by his generous Treatment; when one Morning my Cousin and the other Gentlemen were call’d before the Governor, who gave them to understand that having had Compassion their Misfortunes, he had interceded with the King not only to give them liberty to go where they pleased, but the third Part of what was saved from the Wreck should be restored to them, besides some Presents which Emer zemla in his Bounty said he would bestow on each of them; desiring only, in return, what they knew he could command, the leaving me behind. To which they all joyfully assented, except my Cousin, who, I believe, was a little touch’d at the Hardness of my Fate; which deftin’d me the Sacrifice by which they were to gain Freedom.
And indeed when he returnm to us, he
► I?
could not relate on what Terms they were to obtain their Liberty, without paying a few Tears to the Misfortunes, of her who feem’d allotted by adverse Fate alone to endure the
Burden of heaven’s offended Wrath. but,
added Emelia, how shall I paint to you my receiving this dismal News? Their departure being design’d that Afternoon, I gave vent to my Grief in so outrageous a inanner, that
TT ^ ._. H
50 Mhe FRUDE.
the whole Palace rang with my Complaints: Sometimes I would beg my Cousins to stab me to the Heart, rather than leave me with a barbarous People, so hopeless of Redress, as neither to understand them, or be understood. Then presumptuously would I inquire of Heaven, what were my Offences, alone to be singled out, and doom’d to such unheard of Miseries. But my Complaints being as fruitless as the Pity or Concern of my Cousins, and the rest; committed to the care of my Attendants, I saw them depart, expressing an inconsolable Grief at this cruel Separation; whilst I imagin’d I had now nothing elfe but Despair and Grief to end my Days.
In this desolate Condition I remain’d till Night, so much o’er come and prefs’d by my hapless Fate, that quite weary’d out with Woes, I thought Life would Soon leave its wretched Abode, and yield me up a Prey to the remorseless Arms of Death. beuvile and all the cruel Transactions of my Life revolved in my Mind, with matchless Horrors \ when I perceived the Door of my Apartment open, and Emer zemla enter alone. I was too much alarm’d before with the fear of my being detain’d there perhaps, from something he might like in my Perlbn; which this Midnight Visit confirming, I now expected with beating Heart, and cold convulsed Agonies, the completion of my irretrievable Miseries. When approaching : : nearer, to my great, but delightful Amazement,
be accosted me in my own Langiiage, saying, I see you shake and tremble, but don’t let one Fear perplex you; I come with balmy Comforts, to heal your afflicted Mind, great
as unexpected. Ah 1 Emelia) from what an Extreme of Sorrow to Joy did these Words change me 1 when, in addition to it, opening his Arms to embrace me, which with reluc tancel declined j he said. Fear not to receive, to fold in your Arms a Relation, a Parent; it’s your father’s Brother that embraces you, and will be to you a Friend, a future Father, all that you can with. I needed no more to ssing my Arms about his Neck, and in Tears
of new transported Joy, - — -- -- -- and incoherent
Words, expresied my Gratitude, to him, to Heaven; who, Avhilft I thought he was loading me with Miseries, had wonderfully turn’d them to Blessings. In those moments calling to my remembrance I had often heard mention \
made of a Brother younger than my Father, bred a Merchant, wssio went to the Indies, from whence he heard he was murdered, on some accident, by the Natives, who just before he went stood my god father; Heaven allotting him ( for it was indeed he) by his Tenderness and Generosity, to prove more than a Father, in Shielding me from fortune’s future Injuries.
The sirft Sallies of our Joys being a little
over, he began to inquire of his Relations and Friends, and what difafterous Fate had forced me to so remote a Climate. On which I acquainted him with my Fortune lost by my Aunty nor did I conceal from him any part of beuvile’s usage. The Torrent of Tears that flowed on this occasion, he strove to moderate by such gentle Advice, and so many endearing Asiurances of his Friendship, as gave my afflicted Soul greater Consolation than I had
H 2 known
I
known from the moment I was confirmed of Belhiles Falsehood; nor did we part, before he let me into the most remarkable Palfages of his Life, with the Disaster that occafion’d his deceiving his Friends with the cruel Belief that he was dead : which I shall slightly touch on, because you’ll, by it, the better understand' ' Series of my Relation.
Abdalla, the then King of Gokonda, held the Crown in right of his Queen, the youngest Daughter of Cotub jba the preceding King; who having no Son, was forced by a cruel wayi almost to the Destruction of his Kingdom, to consent to the Marriage of his eldest Daughter with Suid Munwood the Second Son of Oureng zebe, he hoping thereby to add the. Kingdom of Golconda to the Empire of Mogul. But Cotub jha, bearing him a mortal hatred, and being extremely fond of his youngest Daughter, the Princess Majhaka, resolved to six the Crown on her and her Heirs; and entirely devoting himself to Pleasures, left the management of Affairs to her : by which means, having greater Liberty than is usually allowed Ladies in those parts, her young Heart soon became captivated with the Charms oi Abdalla, yftho{q Father was an Arabian of a noble Family, but low in Fortune; and having a Soul above his. Circumstances, resolved to travel, and Seek Preferment in foreign parts. Being known to some persons of Quality when he came to Golconda, he was by them introduced to the King y who, pleased with his Person, and address, sirft gave him a small Government, in which he behaved himself so well, that he was soon advanced to the most considerable
Employments
I
employments in that Kingdom. In which, and lis prince’s favour, he continued kill hii^^ eath: but then all his great Riches being biz’d on by the King, who is the general leir of all his Nobles, none of the Subjects 1 those Countries having hereditary Estates j oung Ahdalla, his Son, was reduced to a ery mean condition. But having that which old not be taken from him, his Father’^ pirit. Beauty, and Wit, he entered himself into he king’s (or Guard) where that Princess
eeing and liking his Person 5 soon con rived a nearer View, by getting him admitted nto the Seraglio; where his Ingenuity and landfome address made an entire complc ion of his Conquest 5 Ihe from that moment imitting no opportuniy of feeing him, which vas almost every night.
* And it happening at this time, that my Uncle came to Golconda on Affairs of mctchan lize, he fell into an Intimacy With ah iaua, who being liberally educated by his Faker, had learn’d Several European Languages; this caused him to have a friendship for the mer ssiants who visited those parts; and particularly my Uncle, whom he made Ms Gonsidarit in this Intrigue with the Princess. He not having the Discretion to suppress the irregiilar Desires of stouth, prevailed on Ahdalla to take him with him in one of his midnight Visits to the sera guo, where it seems he made himself agreeable to a Mistress of the king’s. But both the Lovers at last being caught, the Tears and in treaties of the Princess sofar wrought on the indulgent Father, that he not only forgave, but married her immediately to proclaiming
him his Succesibr. Buc
But my ui2c//s Crime being of a deeper an blacker dye, and wanting so powerful an Inter cclsor, the Lady was that Instant put to death reserving his Execution for the Succeedini Morning, that they might inflict the more exquisite Torments. But Ahdalla^ not forgetting his Friend in his Advancement, persuaded th( the Crime had gone no further than Intention'; which sofar wrought on his mercy that the Sentence of Death was changed t( another Sort of Punishment, which qualifiec him, with.‘the Beauty .of his Person, and th( Interest of the now Prince Abdalla, to be i guiu*dian to the Fair; in which state, hf'^con tinued^pifl the death of the old : but thet
the. constant Friendship ^ of Ahdalla, who succeeded the mother. Soon raised him to the Titli of Emer zemla, the chief Minister in Power anc, Honour, next'the in which state he hac
continued, ever since.
I foun^/by my Ubc/(?, the Shame of this Misfortune oitete^ed the report of his death 5 h( contrivingrt that the Merchants who accom pianied Shim, to that Kingdom, should belien bc|wa^ n^u»rdered on the Spot. tho’heowna to me; he often had had Desires to return t(
X i t t
his; native Country; the Difficulty of ac cqmplishi'bg' which, rather increased the King friendship, and the confidence he had in h advice, 5 not inclining him to hearken to hi: dep^ture: Not but he now allured me, II Should be doubly his Care for my sake, whof< Looks ( when he sirft saw me, pu
him So much in mind of my Father, that h could not turn his Eyes off me : And understanding au that was Said, immediately on hear
0
^” 1
The rrube. 55
I
ng my Name mentioned, when I Swooned, he raagined me a Relation; which, on Inquiry,
Ending to be so nigh, caused him to lodge us, without distinction, in this Palace : tho’ he did lot think sit to make himself known, till after : he Departure of my Friends; fearing I should;; desire to go with them, or press their jeing detained, the last of which, might have •aifed a Jealousy in the King. However, he ventured to plead for the Liberty of his Country folks, with the Restoration of part )f their Goods 5 assuring me he had taken rare to have them conducted safe out of the s.ingdom; giving liberally to all, but particularly : o my Cousin and her Husband, so as to cause: : not much to deplore the Wreck : thd*
: o avoid the king’s Suspicion, he refrained Tom the pleasure of conversing with them.
In Discourses of this nature, we pafs’d the Slight, till the sun’s fiery Beams o’er fpreading IS, when he withdrew, I was left to a Sweeter flepose than I had long before been acquainted yvith. Now confiding in his Friendship, 1 lattered myself with returning home; and being Partaker of his immense Wealth, I thought beuvik would even repent his injurious Usage on the score of Interest: : these pleasing Hopes were often intermix’d with the fear of my Uncles dying, and leaving me again forlorn and helpless; which occasioned my repeated Entreaties to hasten our flight. Not that I wanted any Amusement a rural Life could yield; the Groves, Springs, Gardens and flowery Meads, incomparably Surpassing ours. And tho’ those of our Northern Climates complain of the extreme Heat, with the venomous Insects that
5^ trude.
infeft them; yet there are So many Reme dies for each, as hardly to be sensible of they Injuries. Yet the want of Conversation ren der’d it very tedious to me, in the absence C my Unde, who was too much employed II Affairs of State, to yield me much of his Cora pany. This Solitarinefs causing me to indulg my Grief for the Loss of my faithless Belhih to divert that Uneasiness, I studied the Languag of that Country, making myself perfect Miflrej of their Fables, in which their History is lost they being much fonder of Allegory, than th plain Simplicity of Truth. Thus were three Years wafted, still pressing him to contrive on Departure J being sensible he had siipt fevers opportunities by his over timidity; whicl was So great, that I believe he would neve have had Courage to accomplish it, had not fatal Incident drove him to it for a refuge.
For some of the Ministers envying my Uncli great Interest with the King, and it not beini in their power to charge him with Injuftic which had often intrap’d them; they too! hold of my being with him, and inform’d hi Majejiy, that an European Woman, of exquifit Beauty (for so they were pleased to style me the more to enforce their purpose) was hid b; Emer zemla, and by the respect which he pai( me, they imagined he had Some extraordinar inducement for it, which he had prefumptu oully concealed from his Majefiy. The amo rous King, whose Gallantry, in spite of hi obligation to the Queen, admitted of oath Miftresies, immediately sired with their De scription of my Charms, Sent an order to Enter
‘zemla to have me brqueht to Court.
- h/f
  5?
My Uncle no sooner refccived this afflibing Command, but he came to my Apartment,, ' not to consult what was to be done, but to tell me I must obey. Tho’ I was too much used to fortune’s severest Injuries, to wonder at anything; yet this sudden Shock, after so long a Calm, prevented me from being able to speak for sometime; whilst my Uncle placing himself over against me, I could perceive the Tears standing in his Eyes : And when he heard me complain of my hard Fate, that never was to leave persecuting me, he said, Oh! Emelia, your cruel Stars have now indeed determin’d you should know your helpless Lot, for nothing less than a Miracle can retrieve you. And why ( added he) was I born, to see so near a Relation, a Child I may call her, thus torn from me, without one assisting Power to relieve her, from this miserable buc ^ certain Doom! — •‘ ^when, after some Pause, he Said, Prepare, Emelia, prepare; for you must go; and as the least Cloud of Sorrow or discontented Look, will Sentence us / both to death, strive to disguise your inward Anguish with an outward Gaiety : Perhaps time may make it more Supportable, Destiny has left you but two Lots to draw; therefore strive tografp the best, which is gaining the king’s Affection.
If he looks on you with approving Love, the whole Nation will bow to you, the haughtiest. Minister will be your humble Slave; by which we may still find a means to escape.
But ( added he) lam too well acquainted with the Seraglio, not to tremble for you, should your luckless Chance be either to be neglected or Scorned. — — I know the Disgrace would too
.. i i.
58  ,
Soon overtake me, to be able to redress yotij whilst you’ll be turn’d to the outward Apartment of the Women, to be begg’d by Some Favourite, or elfe, in that iraprifoned state, waste a wretched Life, barely Supported with Necessaries; the Guardian Eunuchs Avarice robbing them of the royiz/ allowance in Such a shameful manner, that often" pinching Want opprelfe; them 5 they being too Sensible; those unhappy 'Women will never be admitted to the royui Ear, to pour forth their Wrongs;
I was too much supriz’d at what mj Uncle aid not to hear him withoht interruption till he had done; but then with Resentment and Grief, answering him, ilaid^vncfi I esteem my Misfortunes double,, since 1 sind there is a Probability of involving you in them; for which reason I would entreat, what ever I am to Suffer, you would guard your own Safety, and leave me to my fatcj who am resolved rather to die than Submit to this Tyrant: which, could I opiate my Conscience to an eternal Sheep, could not, even in this Life, yield me any recompensing Joys to atone for the Offence which I hope Heaven will give me fortitude to throw off with indisi ference, rather than continue it by so black a Course of Sin and Misery, My Uncle, already ashamed of his easy Compliance ( an extreme Timidity being his fault) began to expostulate with me, by saying, Life was not given us to part with when we pleased;; we had no remedy but submissive Patience to the divine
Will.
But these Discourses yielding no Relief, and the time ol mv Deoarture drawing nieh. de
♦ *
termining in what manner I would act, L comply’d with my uncle’s Advice, in being drefs’d with all the advantage of Ornament and Art, not confining myself exactly to the Forms of their Country, yet keeping so close to what Custom had made agreeable to them, as neither to appear strange, or ridiculous, ]But I will not, pursued Emelia, trouble you with my Anxieties on the way thither, nor the trifling Ceremonies of my Guardians when j arrived, till the approaching Lrening, in which I saw the Ring. They having sirft prepared me with a Bath and rich Odours, fet out with Gems and all the Ornaments of a Bride, I was by two of the principal Eunuchs led to an outward Apartment, only Separated from the by a Curtain of thin Muslin,
embroider’d with Gold and variety of slow r ers, on both sides perfectly alike; to which they advanced so close with me, as easily to perceive his Majesty through it lying on a Sort of Mattress, the Bed of that Country, raised three Steps higher than the rest of the Floor, with Ebony inlaid with Gold, Pearl, Agate, and other valuable Stones, and Wood; the Workmanship of which was So exquisitely sine, and the Lustre so extremely dazzling, (that tho’ my bewilder’d Senses were quite o’et come with Sorrow and Pain at So near an Approach to what I resolved to shun with Death,) yet I could not help gazing with Amazement on the beauteous Order and Art in vvhich the Birds, Trees, Beasts, and Serpents, were in trail’d, as naturally, as if the Originals had been present, Exactly between the Floor and ^rch’d Ceiling, by an invisible Hold, a large
I z ' c^iopy
‘ V 5
ijkj JL XX XI
Canopy o’er spread him, composed of an t)val fafhion round; on the out side of whichj were Images of Boys, whose large plumed Wings waving to and fro, created a cooling Breeze : A thousand crysialline Lamps addec a Lustre that furpasied the Day, and pain’c the Sight \ whilst on the lower Floor, Severa Basons received Water, which was rendered t( them, in murmuring Sounds, out of tb Mouths of Crocodiles, Dolphins, and oath: Creatures not only carv’d, but painted in ft lively a manner, that I beheld them with 1 secret Fear of their being what they only re presented. Nor was his tawny Majesty lef magnificently Set out, than his Apartment his Robes and Turbant being one entire Blaz of Diamonds and precious Stones. And in deed I cannot help owning, thus adorned there appeared a majestic Grandeur in his Look and Manner, that awed and terrified me, the in careless Ease he seem’d to yield himself Votary to Love. Harmonious Sounds conceri ed with the falling Waters, and all the ir chanting Graces of our Sex, with vocal Mt sick, added an unresifting Softness to h
Soul.': -- He lay like one intranced in Pk
Sure j the Songs no Sooner being ended, bt there appear’d six Women lightly habitec who danced so excellently fine, that none ever saw in Europe were comparable to there Their sprightly Airs, easy active Motion and speaking Eyes, were too forcibly skilled i all the Rhetoric of Love, to be resisted b any Heart that was not guarded with more tha human Fortitude. Still as they approach’c pr Surrounded the Throne, from large Jai
ftrewin
JL fj\0 X XV xj xi JL
strewing towards him rich Odours and Flowers, I could not help fancying they lookm like the Graces inspiring Mortals with new, but inimitable ways of creating and inviting Love. But tho’ they danced with a Swiftness beyond Thought, yet so consiantly were their Eyes fix’d on the King that on a slight Movement of his Hand, they all vanished in a Moment; and the Curtain being drawn the same instant, that was between us, the Eunuchs approach’d with me, to the foot of the Throne; which having kifs’d in humble Reverence, they withdrew backwards, leaving me on bent Knees there, where I quickly sunk down on the lower Floor, not to pay a Homage to it, but so extremely frighted, that quite deprived of my Senses, I remain’d motionless; till the King, prepared by all these Pleasures, perceiving Something in my Looks (tho’ pale and wild with Fear) that pleased him, by a con defcenlion not known before, advanced from his Throne, and raised me in his Savage Arms; styling me by the names of the sineft Fruits, and fairest Flowers : He told me, I Sprang from celestial Lilies and Roses, and was sweeter far than Jelfamine and all their fragrant Indian Odours, the delicious flavour of non parallel’d pineapple being on my Lips, which already he had made too near Approaches to. embolden’d by this Softness in his Behaviour, I rally’d up Courage enough to throw myself at his Feet, and addressing him in the most Suppliant manner, Said, Great; Sir, permit a wretched Slave to speak;; | am conscious, what J fh^ll declare will dr^w
imnisdiately your displeafure and Ministers of >
Death
Death oh me sthe latter I have taught m Soul with a thousand struggling Agonies t meet unconcern’d, rather than by a Deceit C Falsehood, justly merit your Indignation. H listening with a fix’d Attention, reply’d, t near as I can express the manner of their Lan guage in ours; Fearless speak on, for abdau Swears by himself, and all the sacred Deitie; that hover round and guard this Land, whip once like me they ruled, till Summoned b the first Mover to more blessed Abodes, Deal shall not sell this tall Cedar, (alluding to th height of my Person, which you know fur palses most Women) nor change the pearl Lilies with which Nature has covered rhei till thou goeft with me to the Fields of endlef Bliss, where each Moment strong Desire, am Love renewing, thou (halt be my chosen, ra;
Selected, my only beloved -- -- -- -- fairer than i
thou hadst already drank of the celeftia Spring of renewing Youth, and heighten’( Beauty: But till that Hour of Change comes let us here begin to take immortal Joys, it thy Arms. I am, said Emelia, more particular in relating what the King said, to give yoi an Idea of their manner of Courtship. Bui gathering more Courage from this solemn Declaration, to preserve me, I still continuing on my Knees, said, Dread Sir, be pleased tc hear, and then Summon all your Mercy witl the Remembrance of your royal and greatlj generous Vow, to save a helpless Unfortunate -- -- far unworthy of such Honours oi
your sacred Notice, my. humble Fate having cast me beneath all such ambitious Thoughts; my Vows and Person have long since been
givpt
  6}
given to an Inferior, by Ties too Solemn for ought but Death to fever. Here I hop’d, perceiving the Anger beginning to flash in his Eyes. He answering in a hasty Rage, Said, And Death Shall Sever you— — I will be deprived of such a store of immense Pleasures Name him quickly; thou foolish Woman, to fully the fair Idea I had received of thee, with the loathed Thought that another has posiefs^d thee: but quickly name him, left my retarded Vengeance should fall on you. — — Ah! answered, /, I expect; but for him, he is not within the reach „of your mighty Power — — but tho’ Millions of Waves divide us, yet my Faith, my Truth, and Love, must and Shall preserve me inviolably his. You ought to know, ( reply’d he, more enraged) this is not the Language of a Slave, who can preserve no Faith, no Oath, but as your Monarch pleases > if we Shall think sit to lose,, thought that your virgin Rose has been the Spoil of a wretched Inferior, with Gratitude and Submissive Joy you ought to meet by condefeending Love. But oh, reply’d I, by Education and Notions different, I am taught, that no Fear, no Slavery, Tortures, nor Death itself, will be an excuse for breaking through the bounds my Religion preferibes, where Adultery is in the foremost Rank of heinous deadly Crimes, Murder only excepted. I see, (said he, interrupting me, with an Air strangely severe you mock my easy Compliance; but silence your Complaints, or Death in all his frightful Forms siiall surround you, nor dare to damp my Joys with a Sigh, lest we ourfelvte (taking up a
ihorr Scvmiter that lav at the head nf his
64 X rude,
with Wrath Severe make this unftain’d We pon drunk with thy Blood. To which, sirn ly fix’d on my Purpose, and enraged at h Tyranny, I reply’d, I cannot help it, I wi not hold a Short precarious Life by a Criir So deadly, hourly rack’d with the slings i : Guilt, attended besides by a thousand resile Fears of Death, and you. And perceivin him ready to heave his Arm, and give th blow, encouraged by some extraordinary Pow
er, I went on, saying. Strike -- thou cam
but triumph o’er my inanimated Clay — whil I, swift as the sun’s refulgent Beams, fha
mount to celestial Happiness- -- exal
perated at the Boldness of these last Words — h struck the Dagger with Such force, that th
“bright Metal sparkled in my Eyes. -- -- Bt
Heaven still guarding and preserving me, oi dain’d it So, that the Weapon Hiding from m Breast, with all its force went into my rig! Arm, of which you have often Seen th Mark. — — He had no Sooner given this raf Blow, but repenting, with a stamp Summon’ his Attendants; and perceiving the Blood t flow from the Wound, with relenting Pit ftoop’d, and stopped it with his Hand; saying What hast thou made me do, thou rebellious but still lovely Fair? — And turning to hi people, order’d them to fly with their Swisie: Speed for the Physician; adding, he had de ftroy’d more Worth than his Kingdom coul recohipence. And perceiving me faint an yneafy at the dressing my Wound; all th while forcing me to rest by him, he strove t comfort Tne, y repeated alturances of neve tnprp giving mq any cause to fear the lik
Shep R U D E. 6$
Danger. And bidding my Uncle to be called, who came with me to the Court, he said to him, on his appearing. Where, and how, came you by this excellent Wonder of her Sex? See, with what Unconcern file dares Death, which you and I once trembled at the thoughts of, whilst her undaunted Soul braves him with all his Terrors : and yet every female
Grace sits triumphant in her Eyes. -- -- Ha 1
(pursued he) what an unequal Softness is there! how could my more than barbarous Rage hurt ^ Such unparailel’d Beauty? Then turning to my Uncle, he Said, Teach me, Emer zemla, instruct me how to warm that frozen Heart with Transports equal to those her Eyes inspire! Oh learn me all your nation’s Soothing Arts, by which they captivate the Fair; and in return. Rule and Empire shall be thine. Revenge and Death shall be in thy power, thou shalt be abdulla’s Self.
I heard all this, and Saw his Officer with active Diligence, equal to his unbounded Expression of Love, endeavour to restore my drooping Spirits, and heal my'wound; whilst my Uncle, who with anxious Soul had waited without, impatient to know the Event, obey’d the king’s Summons with pale Fear in his Looks; which being dispersed by what he said to him, he drew nearer the Throne with more confidence. After having paid the usual Homage, he began to address him in the following manner : -- -- -- Since your royal Goodness
has commanded me to Speak, I will presume to deliver with Modesty and Candour my humble Opinion; esteeming myself blessed, beyond Length of Days or Riches, if I am inspired
■ « _ TT V
56 Tue r Rv DE.
with ought that may add a happy Moment to
my dread Sovereign. -- Tho’ I could not help
smiling, with an amazed Contempt at this extreme Flattery in my Uncle; yet it was plain and artless, to what afterwards I perceived was tedresied to me, being so fortunately advanced, as they thought, to the king’s favour. But, having ended his long Preamble of Duty and profound Respect, he began to acquaint his Majefiy, I was his Niece, and by what means I was saved, and found to be such j Adding, that the Men of his Country,, being too indulgent to our sex’s Charms, the greatest amongst: them (the Monarch not excepted } Sought and obtained our Love only by Submissive means; which indeed had this happy effect, that our Hearts being Secured by those mild Indearments, it more bound our gentle Natures to strict Fidelity, than Guards, Watches, and Confinement : And more particularly as for myself, tho’ his impartial Eyes were unfensible of Love, yet he could not help confessing my Charms superior to most( ( great was his Flattery!) Not but the Women of his Nation surpass all Nature in the general esteem, a sweet harmonious Justness regulating their Features, with Complexions fair as the falling Snow, inliven’d with as beauteous a Tincture of Red, as the blushing Morn, ^ without that Separate fettled Fixedness of too often the fading Lily and languid Rose, less inviting in our neighbouring Nations: Adding, our sprightly Air and modest Mein, was inexpressibly agreeable, neither tainted with an affected Gaiety, nor demurely formal. It would have made any one less interested than myself'
'' ' ■
The Prude; <5^
Smile to See with what Gravity he uttered all this; as if it had been Some weighty advice^f* in which the Preservation of the Kingdom was concerned. However? the King, thus taught to Woo, by a thousand complaisant Arts, began ' to Sooth my Pride, the fatal Foible of our Sex And indeed so great was the Ingenuity and Passion of that Monarch, that I believe, had not my Soul been too strongly fix’d to my faithless inconstant beuvile, I could not have resisted all the tender Obligements of that Prince But when I was So happy, to find a certain Protection in my uncle’s Friendship; so great a Solitude rather increasing my Discontent for the injurious Usage of my Husband, I was so happy to make Devotion my Refuge: It was that (pursued Emelia J and that only, which inspired me with Fortitude to baffle the Terrors of Death, with So much Contempt, and resift; a not disagreeable monarch’s Addreft'es, with the Power and Honour that attended it.
The igng, being prevailed on to leave me to my repose, I was convey’d to the next Apartment; and Emer zemla staying with him, he renew’d his Solicitation, with extravagant Promises, if he could win me to a Compliance; not bmitting to insinuate Threats, if I continued obstinate;; my Uncle did not fail to enforce, with ail the dismal Disasters that must attend my still resisting. But unmoved, I told him,
I was resolved to wait and bear with Patience, whatever Heaven was pleased to allot; retorting so sharply oo him, his want of Courage, and Virtue, that vanquish’d with shame, he left pursuing me. Whilst my Wound mending but ftowly, I perpetually had the hings company
when Sleep, or the pretence of it, did not free me from him. And indeed in those Hout he fhow’d so excellent an Understanding, wist such a Nobleness of Mind, that I began, almost, to fear him as a dangerous Lover, mj Aversion now ceasing, which at sirft proved nc small Armour to the Resiftance I made. Bui in the mean time, all that had pafs’d flying t( the queen’s Ears, she was struck with such at implacable Jealousy, that Ihe resolved mj death; it being a very wrong Notion that we have, to imagine the Asian Ladles are so passive concerning their husband’s divided Love. — Its true, any Pleasure en pajjant with other Women of the Seraglio ( who pay the Wife th( Respect of a Mistress)) encourage, as W( would a female Friend to make a third ai Cards, or any other Amusement; but when onc( they imagine or apprehend they are like tc gain a superior Interest in the Hearts of theii Husbands, they feel as many lively Pangs, anc racking Tortures, outrageously opposing, o slily undermining, as the most exasperated Italian Revenge can invent; their Passions bein more violent than ours, take deeper root. Ol this Stamp was the Queen, who in her Youtl had been too busy in Politics, not to be tainted with a subtle ill Principle in most ol her Designs. The king’s high Spirit had curb’d her in all State matters, since the death of hei Father; yet he treated her with great Respect, as the Source from whence his Honours sprung; except in Love affairs, it seems he had often caused her to be violently uneasy, tho’ never. anything comparable to this Adventure of mine, which she determined to get rid of, by
poisoning
poifoningme. -- -- -- -- Having gained an Eunuch,
theeing assign’d to be one of my Attendants, to aid her in her Design, the Dill I drank Tea in, was poifon’d; when Providence so order’d it, that Cujhama by chance broke it, and my poor little Squirrel eating the Sugar out of the bottom, immediately grew sick and dizzy, and taking him in my Lap, he soon, falling into strong Convulsions, died. This so alarm’d my Uncle, that he immediately carried it to the King; who presently guefs’d from whence the Mischief came: tho’, to be certain, the Eunuch was threatened with the Rack; which to escape, he confefs’d it was done at the Queens Solicitation, — This waking the king’s care to preserve me for the future, most of his Officers were dismissed, *, those whom my Unde could best confide in, were placed about me in their stead. But my Wound mending apace, and the King growing more violent in his sol licitations, which my Uncle perceiving I intended to resift with my sirft unalter’d Resolution, he, in earnest began to think of our e fcape: and it fortunately happening that a Dutch Vesiel was going to leave the Port, laden for Europe, he ordered it so, as to agree for our Passage; tho’ he was too much a Politician to let him know he ran the danger of carrying away Emer zemla and myself, only making the Master of the Ship believe we were Merchants, who were afraid of being taken up about some Mismanagements in the Duties of Trade. He contrived that the Ship should fail in the Morning out of the Port, and dropping down about ten Leagues, they should lie by within one of the Palaces where the King then
resided.
Jl X Jtv U jlf
resided, and send their Boat to an unfrequented
part of (: hc Shore, to wait for us.
I thought, said Emelia, I Should have gone wild with Joy, when ray Unde brought me this pleasing News; charging me at the same time to soften my Behaviour to the King, to prevent Suspicion: which I did So artfully, that abdaua, charm’d with the Change, talk’d all in the Language of Raptures, staying with me So long, that I was forced to pretend a Fit of Illness to be rid of him. Tho’ I cannot help owning, when I reflected on the uncommon Generosity with which he treated me, considering the Tyranny which they exercise in those Parts over our wretched Sex, when thrown unfortunately in their power, that I could not See him leave me, as I imagin’d, for ever, without being touch’d with some Regret. — ■■ I immediately prepared for our Departure, my cautious Uncle not Suffering us to quit the Palace till he was sirft sure rhat the Longboat waited for us on the Shore; and then pretending some business of conse quence, I and Cufhama followed him in the Habit of inferior Eunuchs., that tend in lower Offices about the Court. We got off unsuspected, and swift as our Horses could carry us, made to the Boat j where a Christian, in whose Fidelity my Uncle knew he might conside, expected our coming, with most of our Treasure; and without difficulty getting to the Ship, with flying Sails we made from Shore.
Thus Providence allotted, when I least expected, my Deliverance; for who could have thought, that Emelia should in less than a Month be failing to her native Country, when she received that hau£?htv Command to be
  71
brought to the Seraglio, from whence nond e’er depart till Death has feal’d their fatal
Mandate? -- Or who could have imagin’d
that I should return laden home, miftress of immense Wealth, that saw me leave my native Country, forlorn, abandon’d, and destitute of Friends, or wherewithal to support me? Thus, whilst celestial Virtue is our Guide, let none distrust the all liberal Hand of Providence, whose Mercy descends to relieve the poor, the miserable offending Sinner.
When we lost sight of Golconda, the Fears which had so visibly posieffed my Uncle whilst he was active about his escaping, (that had not Love blinded the king’s Penetration, he might easily have observed the violent Agitation of his Soul through his Visage) dispersing as we drew towards Europe, he frankly owning his Weakness, took me into his Arms, and Said, My dearest Niece, I acknowledge it is to you I owe the now joyful Hope of feeing again my Country, join’d with the Happiness, that I have it in my power to recompense so near, so valuable a Relation, according to her Merit; who has fliow’d me the exalted difference between a steady perfe verance, when attack’d by imminent tempting Dangers, and only poorly wishing or desiring to do it: For even those who have no natural Turn or Impulse to Vice, often by an irresolute Indolence Submit, fondly flattering themselves, that the Force and Necessity will palliate the Crime. I mention this, said e melia, to Show you how much he approved of that very Constancy which his weak Fears would have shaken. Nor was he less generous
71
than his Promise; we no sooner arriving at Venice, than disposing of most of his Jewels to advantage, he divided his Wealth equally between us, from that moment ihaking me entire Mistress of half, independent of him. Nor did he forget the Christian Servant that assift ed in our Escape, or the Dutch Master;; him as liberally, as if he had known the Rifquc he had run of carrying from Golconda, Emer zemla and Emelia.
I will not trouble you, said this fair hifto rian, with the Names of the Countries, or the delightful Journeys which we made throughout most parts of Europe, till our Arrival in our dear native Country : Where we had not been long landed, before my Uncle entering into a serious Discourse on the Incidents of my past Life, said to me, Niece, tho’ I perceive you would disguise in silence the Anguish of your Soul, your perfidious Husband has still too great an ascendant o’er your Heart, for ' you to have any true Joy ip Life; which sills me with Fears that this one Weakness may destroy all the Happiness Providence has liberally pointed out to you. Confess (said he, perceiving the rising Blufloes guiltily acknowledging the Truth) are not your Secret Wishes for a Reconciliation? To which I answered, (confounded at his quick Perception of my Folly) I cannot well tell you how' my Heart is disposed toward him whom I violently Love and Hate at once; and fear, those opposite Passions, in spite of Resolution and Absence, will never cease tormenting the Repose I fain would sind by Indifference and Infensibility: But this. Sir, I affure you, (added I) I shall never
U m THUD E. 75
stoop to a thought of Reconciliation without (what, alas i is impossible) the finding him such as I at first imagin’d him, when Gratitude pleaded with all his other Charms for the surrender of my Heart. Not but I own I wish to triumph over him, by letting him see how much the injur’d abandon’d has been the
particular Care of Providence; which perhaps may make him dread the contrary Effect on his Perjuries. Ha! ( cry’d my Unde, on hearing this) you have touch’d the very Point; I fear and tremble for you : Your Curiosity, (pursued he) has already made you inquire whether he has yet disposed of himself to another, and now you know your Fortune may make him desire you on the score of Interest, and assert his Right, who before deny’d you, with so unparallel’d a Baseness, that I wonder how it’s possible a Woman of your Sense and Spirit can entertain a thought of remaining Love for the worst of Men; who work’d on your aum’s and your Weakness, to become a Prey to his Desires;; after having fully satiated, without any Sense of Justice or Honour, or one remorseful Thought of Pity, the last feeble Remain of Love, did an Action that ought to make you think of him only with Deteftar
tion and Horror. -- For what Happiness can
you ever expect, or what Confidence can you have in him, in whose most endearing Careftes ou fear Deceit j who when most he feem’d to love, was under hand striking the blows of deadly Hate, — and whose Principle you know bas dared to break through the most solemn ind sacred Ties on Earth. -- -- No, Emelia,
\ continued he) exert yourself, and by a noble
L Rerent
jtq xm X jx. u u SL,
Resentment, resolve to hate and think no mou of him; And as I believe you are safer whilf out of his Knowledge, change your Name and as your State is truly that of a Widow, weai the Title of one— — let us choose the mol pleasant Part of the Country, to pafs, I hope our happy Days. — — ■ The Court and City be ing the only Places beuvile can banifti yoi from, vanquish all Thoughts of appearitij
there: -- -- which, I take it, will be very eaf]
for you to do, whom I have found more in dined to be diverted with Reading than Con verfation. Nor put it any more in beuvile’, power to create you new Misfortunes, whicl by wilfully running into, you cannot hopi Providence will again appear so wonderful] in your behalf; having no excuse for lovipi him, who ought to be abhorr’d.
These Reasons, join’d with my uncle’s In treaties, caused me to subdue all Thoughts o feeing beuvile; and I retired with him, to thi Seat he had purchased, where I have evei since resided. And my Vncle, who at hii Death made me his Heir, more strongly laying the Same Injunction on me, has prevented more than my resentment, the fond Defin I have still of once more Seeing beuvile, an running perhaps into a second Ruin: For fuel is my Weakness, that neither Absence nor all my mighty Wrongs can rafe the first charming Idea from my Soul. This Folly I have fuffer’d to prevail So far on me, that learning he went abroad on public Affairs, I wrote a Letter as if residing in that Place j only telling him I was still living, and bidding him beware oi entering into another Marriage, to add to his
Crimes:
Crimes: For tho’ I had been so barbarously used by him, I had preferred myself, without retorting his Injuries, by any other way, but by being concealed eternally from him. This I did, not to have reproach on myself, should he be guilty of so great a Crime.
And in this perplex’d State I have continued ever linccj wishing to See him, and that he may find an excuse for all he has done; yet not daring to do it: Which is now more than ever increased, by Seeing that faithless Charmer, in the Drawing-room, when last we were there. But alas! how chang’d from the Young, the Gay, Inimitable beuvile! The enchanting Softness of his Eyes skilled no less than his Tongue in the perfuasive Arts of love, now sternly moved, regardless of the Fair j whilst his contracted Brows feem’d puzzled in hatching dark Schemes of State. Yet tho’ his Complexion was fallow’d, and his easy Air and sine turned Limbs grown into a heavy. Corpulency; still methoughts there appear’d
a noble Grandeur in his Mien. -- Ah! Heavens,
pursued Emelia, why have you given so many outward Excellencies, where there is So little Worth lodg’d within? And why am
I doom’d to love.. — to dote — wssiere all
Virtue is wanting, that should give approve ance to my fond Passion? But (proceeded that Lady) unable to bear the sight of him, with trembling Limbs I withdrew, complaining to you and Elifinda, that I was seiz’d with a Sudden Disorder. This, with what has since happen’d to you on lyfander’s Score, made me resolve to leave the Town, and .try, by retreating, to escape the Snares of Love? which
L 2 may
may again iiitrap me, and make you acquainted with Sorrows like those I have but poorly painted the least Part of.
Emelia had scarce sinifhed these words; when they perceived a Chariot with two Gentlemen and their Equipage in Mourning pafs by them, and stop at beugrand.s eoack But how different were the Passions of their Souls, tho’ both habited in the Weeds of Grief The one being Stanorius, lately freed from th galling Chains of Matrimony; and the other the generous enamoured Marcander, who wa: pierced with a Sorrow of a deeper Strain that outward Mourning could express.
and the Gentlemen knowing eacl
Other, and understanding they were to trave the same Road, tho’ Marcander and Stanorius’. Swift Horses fhow’d they intended to reach further length; yet they were etely persuade( to halt at bellgrand’s, and the Ladies intende Stage; especially Stanorius, whp by this ha learned from elifmdd.s longing Eyes — that pleasing Duty was expected from him by tha Fair, whose eager Soul was already contrivin a Means to possess Joys more solid, and fuitin better with her warm Nature, than fuchs her profefs’d Austerity admitted of: To ac compliffi which, they had no sooner entre the Inn, but her excellent Engine, Stanijfc took care to coiffult with him, in order t have their Chambers joinm; which being doni they waited not long before Supper w brought, some of beugrand’s People havin rode before, to get it prepared.
But now Fate began to turn the Scab e(lfinda, who was not much longer t
triump
i
triumph in her dissembled Hypocrisy and Wickedness;; the beauteous Bellamira, like the refulgent Sun, darkening all her feebler Rays, struck the amazed Stanorius with too many pointed Charms, not to yield himself her immediate Victim, whose nice Discernment of the sex’s Foibles, hitherto had prevented all Esteem. But here Reason, commonly the Foe of Love, join’d his united Force, in acknowledging her faultlelly fair, — who was indeed free from all the little affected Vanities of her Sex — as Toffingsof the Head, Shrugs, and
swimming indolent Airs, which oftener create Ridicule, than gain the sought for Admiration.
Whilst Bellamira, insensible of her own Perfection; made all her Charms appear the inimitable Work of Nature; and tho’ Stanorius found his amorous Soul lost in this delightful Labyrinth of Beauty, yet he did not fail to call his usual Assistant, ill natur’d Observation, to his aid j to find if the Mind inhabiting within, was worthy of so fair a Lodgement, which now feeble Art made all her Charms return with double force : A becoming Modesty, nicely placed between an extreme Bashfulness and alfuming Boldness, accompanying all her Actions and Words, which though few, exprefs’d her Thoughts so excellently just and pleasing, that he began as eagerly to desire' ' acquaintance with her Mind, as her outward Form.
But tho’ his ravifh’d Eyes wifli’d eternally ' to be fix’d on that lovely Object, yet he often turned their now satiated Glances on Elifinda; being not insensible how soon the Fiend, Jealousy, would enter a woman’s Breast.
But
1,
But Supper being ended, the difconfolai Marcander withdrew, — who, blind to Beaut and insensible to Joy, or the Pleasures of Con verfation, chooses, by retiring alone, to indulg Love, Grief and Despair, which had been h inseparable Companions, ever since the deat of the lovely Morenia; when it happened that Emelia calling her Eyes towards his Seat, an perceiving something glitter pointed to a Sei vant to reach it her; which being done, fh perceived it was a Picture in miniature, repre Seiitisig a Huntress, the Beauty of which, es tremely charming her, she said, as She furvey’ it. How justa Symmetry are in these Features How exactly proportioned are these fine turn Limbs — What a sprightly Sweetness is i
those Eyes !How many agreeable Smile
play about her Mouth i — Sure (purfuedfit the Original is an unequal’d Beauty; or el) the painter’s Imagination has excell’d all have yet beheld of Nature! — " stanorius, wh( knew the fair one this Piece but faintly repre Sertted, reply’d, he was convinced by whj Emelia had said, Ihe must be a Stranger to th amiable Original, who had all the varyin Charms of her whole Sex centred in herself each Action and changing Look, adding t( her Beauty, new and inimitable Graces j an^in chanting Softness often in her Eyes in a me ment would succeed the laughing Deities, tha before revfcl’d there in wanton Mirth : Yei when Anger had animated them, thefparklin Rays would flash around wrrh such a beauteou Majesty, as would awe and make you yiel( yourself the Offender, tho’ conscious the saul was her’s., — -- Nor was her Genius inferior
'the
tho’ less regular, than the Excellences of her Person j there being something in it too exalted, too daring, and too full of fire, for the Timidity, and almost dull Discretion, with which the " Fair ought to guard their Chastity.
Elijinda, stung at the Warmth with which Stanorius described all these Perfections, hastily reached her Hand to view the Picture; which She had no sooner done, but with a pleased Spite she said. If I mistake not, the Lady which this enchanting Piece represents, was Morenia, the Daughter of the Baron de ■■■' — and the adulterous divorc’d Wife of the injured Count Vilayne, whose Soul and Character is as abominably deformed, as her Person might be
esteemed otherwise- -- -- - — doubt but her
pious Abhorrence of that odious Vice — might have caused her to have run a greater length, had file not remember’d Stanorius was present; who taking her up, said. Madam, you have too rigidly trod the Paths of Honour and Virtue, to be a Judge of the offending Morenia, whom I would not pretend to excuse in this Company, tho’ I would a little soften her Faults, and put her in a light that might discover some sparks of Virtue; which, through the " black Cloud of criminal Love, might move your pity, at the same time that you blam’d the
Conduct of this guilty fair one.' — .To which
Emelia reply’d, I am already too much charm’d with this lovely Resemblance of the Lady, not to wish her Actions as amiable, who certainly must be attack’d with Temptations as much superior to what our Sex often, but feebly relict, as I think her Charms Surpafs all I have seen;; since (added she) you incline
So
V/V / M X. VJ XJ jlf
so favourably to mention her Faults, methinks]
would hear them from Stanorius. -- -- -- Bellgram
and the conquering Beliamira joining their re quefts with hers, Elifinda was forced to yield, and be the painful Hearer of Adventures Ihe approved of only in Action; Tho’ after sometime, fired with Thoughts more elevated than those of empty Conversation, she withdrew; chiding Stanorius with her Eyes, for employing the precious time in insipid Talk, while more pleasing Joys waited his Approach. But fc sickle is the Heart of Man, that he, who not many hours before hop’d the Course of his Journey, fummon’d by her Charms, now found more 'pleasure in bearly gazing on Bellamira than all her rifled Beauties could equal. Anc her Absence giving him greater Latitude tc enjoy that Happiness, he, to entertain the Company, began the Story of Morenia in th( following manner.
Ihe Hijiofy of the Marquis de Mon trovile, Morenia, and the Count vi layne.
1^ 0 RE NI a’s Father, the Baron de...
Seat lying within a Mile of the Marquis di montrevile’s Castle;; that will be revered in all Ages, for the great Actions of this young hero’s Grandfre, whose undaunted Courage, Fortitude and Loyalty, alone ftem’d and opposed, for a considerable while, the rebellious Torrent of Confusion and Anarchy, that o’er whelmed and devoured his bleeding Country 3
lonf
 ’
long supporting his royal mafteps sinking Cause, and with him greatly fall, laden, as he justly term’d it, with never dying Honours'. Who, pursued Stanorius, (sir’d with a worthy Emulation, on making this little Mention of the great, the glorious Montrovile) like him, would not rather nobly expire in the Service of their King and Country, than linger on the coward, cold, Deathbed of Nature?
But as Love, and not War, is to be my present Theme, the young Marquis de Monmvile and his Sisters being inseparably in the company of Morenia, by the intimacy of their two Families they had, even in their Infancy, Sotender a Friendship for each other, that their childifu Endearments were often repeated to divert the > Visitors of each Family. The Marquis, but two Years older than Morenia, never thought he had learn’d his Lesion, till he had sirft taught it that young Lady; and when he was ungovernable and obstinate, if she was called to their Assiftance, (he never fail’d to calm and bring him back to a serene Compliance with his Duty. Thus, before they understood the Name of Love, their Hearts were join’d in an innocent amiable Passion for each other; which their growing Years blowing to a more lively Flame, they thought to make it eternal, by the most binding Vows that Love and they could invent, without any dread of fortune’s opposition. The marquifs’s. Father having been long dead, they flatter’d themselves, from the smallness of morenia’s Fortune, that when Montrovile Should come of Age, he neeff but ask that lovely Lady of her Father, to obtain her.
gz
But time’s slow Wings not flying so fall as their Wishes, the Lover had scarce reach’d to the eighteenth Year of his Age, when the Dowager Marchioness de Monmvile, thinking it time for him to begin his Travels, had ail things prepared before she acquainted him with it; and then, in terms too arbitrary, let him know her Design, for him to think of ought but obeying her. Whatever reluctancy he had for being thus cruelly divided from the innocent Sweet Society of his adorable Morenia, whom ' he visited the next day with this unwelcome fatal News, I will not aid Stanorius) pretend to relate all the Conversation that had pafs’d between these Lovers at parting; tho’ I have heard most of it mentioned by both : The amorous Marquis, by ten thousand Oaths of eternal Fidelity, endeavoured to persuade Morenia in his Absence to persift in the like; telling her, that tho’ he was forced by the rigour of his guardian Mother then to a Separation, yet nothing should make him cease a moment to adore her; that her lovely Image was too strongly imprinted in his Soul, for ought but Death to efface. Which to consirm, he Showed Morenia her own Picture hanging at his Breast;; her, whilst absent, on that alone he’d gaze: And presenting her with his, desired it might Sometimes be look’d on, to put her in mind of her adoring Lover. Morenia, however, restrained by Modesty, no iess charmed than he, with having such a pleasing Resemblance of her enchanting Montrovile, received it; and Said, Tho’ the Manner of my Dress will not permit me to wear it, as you do
mine, yet till my Eyes are blefs’d in beholding
JL fj'y X XW W 1/
the Original, to this i’ll pay my morning and evening Visits, and do you remember the Hours I go to or rise from my Repose, to this Essigy, as to yourself, I will unload the full nefs of my Heart, my Faith, my eternal Constancy. — • Yes, (pursued she, speaking to it) do you tell my Monmvile, whilst he is faithful, no Force, no Violence, nor all the Charms of his conquering Sex, Shall create an inconstant Thought of ought but himself— — — tell him, pursued she, I will indeed preserve Morenia his, through every Difficulty. — — • — But Should he then ac last Be false— — Violence
with which Ihe utter’d these Words, causing the Blood to gush from her Nose, frighten’d with the Imagination that it was an ill O men, she said. See my Lord, I consirm my Truth, and Faith, with my Blood i and Montrovile, in spite of all his doubts of my Love, and his Vows of eternal Constancy, will be false— — the forlorn Morenia; who dwelling in Obscurity, amidst barren R, ocks and solitary Woods, will be neglected and forgotten. Ah I (pursued that amiable fair one) how can I expect the faint Image of Morenia Should guard your Heart against the Selected dazzling Charms of Courts? There some victorious happy one will Soon drive every Thought, every Idea of hapless me thence. ■' - But the lovely Marquis, by repeated Asiurances, difo persing her Fears, the Lovers having sirft contrived to write to each other without being difcover’d, were at last forced to Separate. He began his Journey, his Thoughts fully posiefs’d with the Charttts of that inimitably constant
M z Lady,
0^ 'me r R u D E.
Lady, who resolved to fall a Martyr to Love rather than be false to her Montrovile.
But whilst.. young Lady was fecurjj wrapped in the delightful Ideas of Love, and
'her engaging Lover; the Baron de._______.her
Father, having wafted his Estate considerablj in the late Civil Wars of the Empire, had fevi other hopes of advancing Morenia in Marriage Suitable to her Birth, but by her extraordinary Beauty: Which I believe, Ladies, (pursued,, you’re sensible is not au that is requisite in this Age, tho’ our sirft Parent thought it an Equivalent for the Empire of the Globe, with which he endowed his Confort: Nor would morenia’s Stars have been much less auspicious, had not Love, like the seducing Serpent, fatally wrought her Ruin. It happening that Villayne, who is efteem’d one qf the richest Counts of the Empire, was one Morning at the Diversion of Hawking; a la vourite one flying across the baron’s Grounds, and riot returning at the falconer’s Call, they imagin’d it was perched on a Tree, perhaps, in the Garden: which caused viuayne and his company to go to the baron’s, wssio Waited on thessi to the Garden, where they found the « Hawk perched on morenia’s Arm. viuayne charmed with the inexpressible Beauty of that young Lady, and surprised at the Accident of the Hawk, began fondly to imagine ( being superstitiously' Religious } that the Bird, directed by Providence, had pointed out to him Morenia for a Wife; tho’ afterwards he was convinced, this fancied auspicious Flight of the Hawk was to occasion none of that flatter’d Happiness * the extraordinary
^ m
Patience with which he sustained her Injuries, were to qualify him for a more elevated one hereafter. However, staying Dinner at the baron’s Entreaty, he did not depart thence till he had proposed the Marriage; which was too much for the advantage of Morenia, not / to be joyfully accepted by her Father, without once consulting whether his Daughter could love this future Husband; Which, alas! (he was So far from pretending, that with a Courage unusual in one of her Sex and Youth, she strove by Denials, Tears, and Entreaties, to move her obdurate Father from endeavouring this Match. But in vain; he spurn’d her from him weeping, and when (he persifted in refusing to wed viuayne, he Swore to turn her forth a wandering Vagabond. And sinding neither his stern Commands, nor her mother’s Softer Soothings, could work on her unhappy Constancy;; inexorable Baron— — from the tender Friendship of their Infancy, did not want to guess the too engaging Marquis the entire Cause of this Aversion to viuayne, took a most inhuman Resolution, of having her lock’d up without either Light or Food till Ihe was brought to consent. And though he formerly, by no signs of Dislike, fuffer’d Morenia by all manner of uncontrolled Opportunities to exert her Charms on Monmvile; yet now he refolv’d not to slip So vastly favourable, an Offer, as the count’s, only for the wavering hopes of youth’s inconstant Love.
Morenia three Days endured this painful Fast, but at length Nature each moment preying on her for Relief, she at last thought and fix’d on a strange Resolution, to ease her.
present
present intolerable Sufferings, and still preserve her Faith inviolable to her beloved mon trcvile.
No sooner had She determined what to do, but with Looks as cheerful as her Soul was otherwise, she Submitted to her Parents vliw; whilst the penetrating Father, surprised at her outward Gaiety and sudden Compliance, had her strictly watch’d till the Ceremonies were past, and the fair Maid by her virgin Companions carry’d to her Bridal bed. Where, Ladies, (pursued Stamxms) I am forced to make mention of a very Surprising Scene between her and the Count, tho’ nothing that will be offensive to your tender Ears— — — wretched Bride, or rather Victim, no sooner perceiving viuayne to make the approaches of an amovaixks Bridegroonty hvit throwing herself out of the Bed, fell at his Feet, which She i bedewing with her Tears, said. Oh my Lord, if you are not more than greatly Good, Morenia is the most detestable, perjured, and the miferableft of Women! Oh, pursued this lovely Hyprocrite, what Shall I do! instruct me all ye Powers, to move his virtuous Heart; and you great Patroness, whose Vengeance elfe must fall on my Perjuries, inspire him to have Mercy to save me from a Crime my Nature Shudders at and what I would fain by Death prevent. The Count, who is of a Disposition Soft as summer’s gentlest Winds, could not behold Morenia's moving Grief, without giving way to the compassionate Tenderness of his, Nature; bidding her proceed in Terms that made her think her Arts half successful: And that young Deceiver knowing viuayne^s Weakness
The  . 87
liefs lay (if I may call it Such) in being ex iremely bigoted to Religion, fly made him believe that in her Zeal to the Virgin, she had devoted sometime of Youth to that great Patroness by a Vow of Chastity, which was not yet expired. The pious Count, on hearing this, however pleased he was to sind he was like to be blefs’d with a Wise as religiously zealous as himself; could not forbear sighing when he asked, how long it would be e’er the Expiration of it: which that subtle fair one fix’d to the time of montrovile*s coming of Age. And thus, instead of bridal Joys, by morenid.s Tears, and the Face of Devotion, the Count complaisantly left the Bed, and Spent the Nights on the Floor, till he carry’d her home; where the Charms of her Wit and Disposition, with her pretended Piety, gained So great an ascendant over him, that she and her Family became entirely Mistress of his Estate: Nay, sofar did this lady’s Gaiety work on his easy Temper, that momhovile’s Health was often drank by the Title of the Lady in the Hack Box; She making him believe, she had there the Picture of one she knew he had a Respect for.
But to return to De Monmvile, neither the Charms of foreign Courts, nor yet the greater Foe to Love, Absence, had power hitherto to shake the Constancy of this Lover; who easily took the excuses She made, of her father’s cruel Violence and Force, together with how strangely she had prevail’d on viuayne’s Weakness— — that by repeated Letters, full of, the tenderest alturances of Love, he caused her to persift in her unalterable Faith, and the long
^ '

expected Time by each drawing nigh, t Husband no less wishing it, than the Love who was now arrived at his Castle, in order put his design in execution; where by; assisting Servant, who had formerly belong! to the Marquis, and ever since morenia’s Ma iiage had been her particular Favourite, it w agreed llie should fly from her Husband wi the Marquis to a distant Town, and there 1 a second Marriage and consummation, togetl with her Precontract with Montrovile, thi did not fear to baffle the Counts Pretences.
'Whilst, unfortunately for this wretched L
dy, a Letter from her, in which all this Scher was laid, being carelessly by the Marquis left an upper Pocket, his treacherous Valet four it, and carried it to the Dowager Marchionej who being a Lady of admirable Spirit and go( Sense, had so great an Authority in the Coui try, that she immediately confined the your Lover, and sent viuayne the Letter. Whi( not being found above an Hour before tl design’d Slight, the unhappy Husband d: not receive it till Morenia was fled : But lean ing from it what Road she took, he and h Friends soon pursued and came within sight ( her. Which when Morenia perceived, bein an excellent Horfe woman, she turned up Mountain So steep and narrow, as hardly to b palsable; whilst her faithful Servant, unfortunately for him, being before, and her Hui band’s Party hollowing to him, by Threats ani Entreaties to stop, which must have preventc( her going on; but her Request being mor powerful in begging him still to continue they
^ M \ X ^ 1^
true de; j59
bn the Spot, his horse and self So encumbering the Passage, that, unable to pafs further, this undaunted Lady was Seized by her Husband, and his Friends j where, before them all, with a Resolution unterrify’d, she declared herself the Wife of Montrovile; adding, how little in the three Years, he had deserved the Name of Husband. -- ■ The blushing Count could not deny the Truth of this Assertion, and the lern Baron, being present, resumed the au rhority of a Father, and forced her home, to prevent her going greater lengths on that un iiappy score;
The Marchioness being acquainted with all hat had happened, and understanding by vi 'ayne’s Confession, that Morenia was still a Virgin, and neither Ambition, nor the Manner )f this Marriage pleasing her, she took hold of his very Secret, to ruin that ill-fated Lady in ber son’s esteem;; in a grave Discourse vith him, insinuated as 'K Vilayne had affirmed lis Lady was then with ctiiloby him.. This wrought the Effect she wifh’d : The Marquis. ools in his Love, the Probability daggers his ^aith, the roving Desires of his Youth grow, meafy by his Confinement, and his arbitrary Viother resolves not to give him liberty, ’till le is Secured from that unhappy Lady, for ear he should find the Truth, and relapse to Love: In short, by her well enforced Reasons ind this Deceit, She So wrought on him, that n less than thirty days, he was married to a iery agreeable Lady, that soon was to drive mt the faint Remains of undone Morenia 5 pvho, all this while endured, unmoved, the Shock of her reproaching Parents and Friends,
JL X XV U U jcil
taunting Reflections, with Usage too Severe to be mentioned. And when with reiterated Spite, they still rung in her Ears, the dolefuj Nell to Morenia of his Marriage, She has often S vow’d she did not believe it, till confirmed bj
the neglectful Liberty they at length fufiered jber to take. The Count making no offers ol Reconciliation, and that wretched Lady, find ing by all her Inquiries the fatal Confirmation of the Truth j yet did she not suffer her great Spirit to bend to an absolute Despair: : onf day forlornly straying out alone, ihe perceived from the Field Ihe was in, the Marquis, onlj attended by his Domestics, riding along s Road that join’d to it; and making towards him, she called aloud to have him stop: which he obeying, Ihe said. My Lord, I am informed you are married, I want nothing but to be convinced from yourself— — before you speak, your Looks have Satisfied me of 5 they express a Secret Shame and Guilt for what you have done, which however the busy World may talk, Morenia can never feel on your score You know, my Lord, I did not give my Love unsought, and when I received your vowj and returned them, you See no misery could make me break through the first Engagemeiii of my Heart, — but you have done it— —
am now free, and will still be happy witl Vilayne^ without bellowing one Thought on the perjured Montrovile. The confusion of the Marquis, who by this had learn’d the Deceit of his Mother, with all that unhappy Lad) had Suffered, caused him, without interruption, to hear her out: but then it was too late to begin his weak Vindication, Mormia. turning
from

from him, fled too fast away for either his Calls or Pursuit to overtake her; so that at last the Marquis, like her, was forced to return home, and endeavour to drown the Remains of that Passion in a deep Despair.
Morenia, whose Soul was of a different turn to most of her unhappy Sex, who are generally found to pine after the sickle falfe one, when his Desire is pall’d and fled, kept her Word, and from that Moment, never bellowed a Sigh or Thought on the inconstant Marquis;; ail her Thoughts and Wit to retrieve vi lame back. In order to which, she wrote a Letter, informing him, that not being able to break through her Vows, she had indeed ira pofed on hirn; but whatever cause she had had to complain of m>«?ro‘z; i7e’s Ingratitude, yet to him alone, she must impute all her Miseries, whose fatal Love interposing, had occasioned her being abandon’d by alljthat was dear to her: and in moving distressful terms^ainting the Usage Ihe had received from her Parents, entreated him only to send her to a Monastery there to consume the remainder of her unhappy days.
But tho’ that fair subtle Lady wrote in this fhanner, she was too well acquainted with VI layne’s Disposition and unhappy Dotage, for her not to be sensible, he could no sooner hear of Moreniad's being in Grief and Distress, desiring his Aid, but Love and soft Compassion would drive away every uneasy resenting Thought. And as (he judged, the fond County on receiving the Letter, flew to her father’s, and entering her Chamber, let her know he came to give her her choice, either of a monastic Life, or if she could be happy with him
whole tender Love Ihe need not doubt, he would do all that was in his power to recompense the fatal Loss he had occasioned. more falling at his Feet, return’d him thanks; alfuring him, all the Friendship fly had had for Montrovile should now be changed into a just Regard for the more valuable Vilayne, since he was pleased so generously to pardon what was past. Thus they were reconciled, and in less than a Year, She made him a happy Father.
Stanorius at this making a full stop, Emelia taking up the Discourse, Said, I cannot perceive in ought that you have related concerning Morenia, but that she much more deserves our Pity than Blame; tho’ her excess of Love, pursued in So violent a manner, with the Cdnfequences that attended it. Shows us how fatal that Passion is always to be, when not approved of by Friends: But Stanorius, \yho had perceived Stanijfa enter the Room sometime before, and leaning behind emelia’s Chair, with reproaching Eyes chide his idle Loitering, whilst Elijinda and other sort of Joys waited -- replying to Said, Could
I here draw a'curtain, and conceal a blacker Scene that is still behind; She would much rather, in my Opinion, deserve immortal ap provance than any censure. -- -- But since, pursued
he, you’re inclined to have Compassion on this unhappy Lady, I will leave you tonight an your present favourable Thoughts, perceiving Sleep already begins to take his Seat on lovely bellamira’s Eyes, To which that young Lady answered, he had mistook, for she
had
The TRVDE. 9}
lad been all Attention; but Emelia and Belli rrand thinking Stanorius, tired by this tedious relation, was willing to defer it, took this Dccasion to invite him to make a Halt in his fourney, and pafs a Day or two at emelia’s :
Nhich, for several pleasing reasons, he accepted with a becoming Complaisance, know ng neither he nor Marcander had any extraor i
iinary Business to prevent that Happiness.
nd all withdrawing to Rest, what fell out ifter, isreserved to the Third Part.
Phe End of the Second Part.
*
/ • •
0
I
» I
f ' ^
C
# - r .■
*' •
• *
♦' '
* *
/
%

0
^ : ...
I
\
Lately puhufhed.
4. • • ' ' f
»
t.rt ihe MASQUERADERS : o
1 Fatal Curiosity. Being the Secret Hi! tory of a late Amour. The Third Editior
'( Price 15.)
V The FAT AL SECRET: or
flamy in Distress, The Second Edition.
( Price is.)
5. .The SURPRISE: or Constancy Re
warded. ( Price i j.),
• ft
4. The ARRAGONIAN Q, ueeb
A Secret History. The Second Edition.
. ( Price IS.)
• 4
es
'5. BATH intrigues: /«/»»!• Letter'
to a Friend in LONDON The Second Edi
tion. ( Price 1 s.)
1
/
* * ft
^ I
* -
: \
/ ■
V
%
^ ■ V '.
$
I
s
0
i
V t “♦ T * • *
T H E
§
► • • •"

»
• •
/.
J ‘. «
: •'. ■ A: ■-:
ft
k’ * • •
k
• • ft. .A ^. -*
V s Bm « ■II^K
^1 K HI Mt
PART III and Last
*
0
/
ft
(Price I r. 6d.)
r
fi
i
% ' *
•. \
* ft ’« •?
(
'/ '
1
* .-;
\
•,
I. ' -
i
Pujl puhlifi’d in two Parts, the Aph Edition of,
The M ASQUE R a D E RS, or fati
Curiosity : Being the Secret Hifto: of a Late Amour. k
What guards the Purity of melting Maids,
In Courtly Balls, and midnight Masquerades; sae from the treacherous Friend, and daring Spa stheglance hy Day, and livhifper in the Dark i When kind Occasion prompts their warm Desires; When Music softens, and when Dancing fires!
Pop
/ - •
Printed for J. Roberts, in Warwkk la Price 2 s. Where may be had the Third Editi of, Bath Intrigues. In Four Letters to fiend in London. Price i s.
0
9
%
I
I
Ik
the I I
^HT
 :
W I
■ '
A I
B
NOVEL.
^_______________________ a9
By a Young Lady. I
PART III and Last. I
BB
^ i
V
LONDON; I
Printed for J. Roberts, near the Oxford arms in pvarwick lane. m.dcc.xxv.
5^. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --, -*♦
...' i f
ft ^
?...
’ A i ’ ■ -, • ^
X .t w
^ f ■. ■■
: L 5 I •
A I -
* t \ /
*•* i ...is ^ '
-* L r "W - r t r - .' : .'
%? sr N par ■ - / •
T; f! ' ' %. ij \ - ■, : -"'. ■ -
i i <!>>Z,, V -
. ^ -•> — ' f y
>? \ ' ' /
’ %? 7;.
^ f - ' * •• I
lj V .*■;?. ••' »‘ cj. > *. •: • - : ■*• ' I
^ • .i
* •. -
> r - ' -... ^
I ■ - -
^ r ■ '
■ ^ ^ - ■ ■ ■
5 >■ II ■ V V - ' •, f ^
'^ ■■ - -
^9 ■, t'
I f i '■ ’ .■; ^?
.D. ^ ■■ '. VT r .0-
^ f w ■ ' '■ '■ ' ^ s. ‘
I, A * ^ ■; C • / - T .r ■
4 * * '’■■ :. ' ■
. « ^ ^ V ■ ■ '
i" "
■ ' : A ./ ....
'h ^ - -.'- ■ '
ft ' S • - ' f ^ ^
I i. ' ■ ' .‘/'l ■. i : :
'• - ' r •. • -. - ■
^ ^ i - : H:
. ■' - t C ^ ' • - ■ • ' • "' ' * ■
■? ' -■, '_■•. ■' '■ S -- ^ > - ^ - t4 ■ - -
FI ^ - T' te.,;
^ ■ ' -- .hyvkf "• '■ '
■.*' gar ■ - ■■ ^.,. ■ .•
.r.. • — —.. •' ^ '.;
. ..^. .n ^ — .' -- •, -
•. II DS L ^ \
■' ' ■ s •..• >
fy^vvt % ■> -- i;; ■ * :,.; .-, ..:..
WT ^ i : c.: Ncv
- r A. -..■■■. .^; - ■ A' ' .■■ --
■-’ ss N "■:, ' ■ -
- ■' t' ’.■-• • ■• .'»«-■ ^ ■ •« "
r V \. ‘ - -^ ■ L, -. ■ : ■
T -. ■ ■■■ ^ "■■' - ■: > ■ ..^ ' • - ■ ■. T.
i: N if:,, f; -■ V'
'e ' ■■■; - '■ ■' ^ ■ ^ t... ■ -
1 V ' ^ ' *
V • .i -.. -- V C ■*•
t; « V.., - ^
- ' ' - V -.* ■' ... V.. - J.. •
? ’ ^'.- -- wa • '
^ ^ T ^ V .- ' ^ ■■ '.
.? te A. ■ - ■ '
■ •/ : ' ' y
> i; ' - ‘ :. ^ ^
^ I : ' -
4 ^ \ ^ “-
2j '>■ “^ ' '
i,. * ^
V ^ %
^ ^ ' - - :
*
^ _ ft ' A - '. ■
- -', I ••' '
'*1 ■■• V' '
^- ‘. • : 'N '•
■ t; A ■ ‘ ' '.
■ - ' C - • •
VF =r i V * .•■>«• * y
■ " ^.. • ■.. L, ■.
1? » C ^ - N
■rft < -. • ■. ^ *
2 ■'"'. -
A » ■ ‘ ^ ^ ^. ^ - ^ ■'■ * ■ ■ ’ i ■
^ .' nv ^ ^ ^, C. ^ ■ > ■• - V -■ ^ V
- .-:, -- .AA « ^ ...
'" ■ • ■ V VI •.. '•
. C r • .- ^ T •
: ^. •■• /: V,, - -'.^ : > - ■ ' • ' "
( o
THE
 .
« f
t
PART III
A
0h E Company rising very early the
next Morning, met all at Breakfast, in which they took but little Time; it being agreed they ssiould reach Emelia s before they dined. The Intimacy between Bellgrand and Marcander, caused the sirft to mount with him in his Chariot; by which means Stanorius had the happiness to be placed by the lovely Bellamira; ssie, and Emelia, with Elifinda, silling up the Coach.
Where Emelia Soon made Stanorius Sensible, ssie was desirous to hear the rest of Morenia % Adventures; telling him, her Concern for that Lady, had employ’d her Thoughts most part of the Night, to find a Reason why a Love So
P A 1, .r TTT R Inn ku
Z The  .
valuable and constant, Should be So unfortunate; but I have remarked, pursued fie or ill-fated sex’s Fidelity Seldom meets with better Reward. I am afraid. Madam, an fjjepd Stanorius, you are going to attribut the Cause of their unhappiness, to a Crim we are all So generally tainted with, as wi need an infinite deal of Wit and Skill to vindicate. If you mean, resumed she, the Inconstancy of De montroviue, you are not muc mistaken; tho’ I should not have blamed hin if, after Morenia s Marriage, he had banifh’ all Thoughts of that agreeable Lady; yei methinks, when he had suffer’d her to go i great a Length, and make Such an Eclat on hi Score, it was as dissionourable a Retreat, a the withdrawing one’s Forces from the Sid we are ingag’d to, just when they are goiii; to begin the Battle with the Enemy. But, have always observed, continued Emelia, Me rather chuse by outrageous Anger, or Sulle Neglect, to make the Forsaken Sensible of he lost Interest, than with any Humanity endeavour to Soften the Disappointment, though i Should cost them but a few plausible Excufei The reason, anfwepd Stanorius, with a Gaiet] is' very obvious; for with how ill, how auk ward an Air, must a Lover look, after he ha been telling his miftress, in the Language o Transports, of her unequal, numberless Per Sections, and his eternal, passionate Adora tions; that all those chimerical Imagination those pleasing Ideas, are vanissi’d; and that with his recover’d senses, ssie appears now t( him, mere Woman 1 — You have, said Elisinda I think, given a much better reason for treat'
Jl fjkf X X U jum ^
ng our Credulity with Contempt, than any ve can find, to excuse the Folly of believ ig you. And as, pursued she, I look on all rho are called Lovers, to be tainted with vi ious Inclinations, So I think discourses on hat Subject, too near the Borders of Vice. Imelia, who was not without Suspicions of er being better acquainted with that amo ous Deity, than this Austerity seem’d to ad iit, answer’d her, Ihe could not yield, in the; aft, to her Opinion, who have, said fie, Jature and Religion against you in this 'oint; for, is not Love the great, the only lenient, between Husbands and Wives, Paints and Children > And how many misera le Marriages do we See, for want of that miable Passion, to unite the jarring Strifes, nd create a Harmony in their Actions, de ghtful to themselves and Friends > Not but acknowledge, where Virtue is wanting, riminal Inclination may as nigh resemble in ocent Love, as hypocrisy too often wears )evotion’s lovely Napie, (to Screen the base ess of their Wifties. '
Stanorius, imagining Emelia was piqued at '.lijlnda’s over aflum’d Modesty, turned the )iscourse, by saying, he was afraid the con lusion oimorenia’s Story would too much con xmelifinda in her auftereopinion, and frighten be fair Bellamira from every Thought of that assion. On which, that young Lady said. If e could insure her, it would have that Effect, le ssiould never cease importuning him, till le had heard it; being very desirous to pre: rve undifturb’d, the calm Content ssie now
njoy’d : and Emelia Seconding her Intrea
2 tiesg
"J
4 Ihe P RV D E.
ties, which Elifinda at last yielding to, he acquainted them with it in the foilowing Words.
# # % ^ 0 # # # ^ ^ ^ # #
/-
Cobitibmation ^moreniah Hijiory.
three Years had pafs’d, in which Morenia
made the Count a happy Father of two Sons, and a Daughter; the fond Husband, baniftiing all Thoughts of De montroviue, without Suspicion, or Discontent, enjoy’d a complete Happiness with his lovely Wife.
But, as you have been pleased to observe, said Stanorius, addrefjing himself to Emelia, the cduntess, not having Love like him, was un able’to return his boundless Flame; and vil lagne, being more charm’d with the amufe ment of the Country, than the gay Diversions of the City, Morenia was depriv’d by this means, of all that pleasure there is to be met with; which might have busied her idle Moments, and, perhaps, have preferv’d her from that fatal Passion; which, together with a nearer View of others Miseries on that Score, and the continual Scenes of Falssiood, Folly, Treachery, and Destruction that attend it, might have made her run to her doting husband’s Arms for Refuge.
But tho’ xhecound.s House and Table were never without Company, they were generally too low, too mean for her elevated Genius: In this State her Heart was vacant, and ready to receive the sirft; pleasing Impression, ■ when her ill-fated Stars brought the Chevalier D’avimont into that Country, with his Lady,
  5
dy, whom he had lately married for her vast Fortune, and intended to six at his Seat, whilst himself design’d to return, and enjoy the Pleasures of the Court, without having her too near a Spy on his Actions.
But those Thoughts were all dispers’d, from the Moment he sirft beheld the graceful more niofjvhoie unequal Charms sir’d him withdesire to make that lovely Beauty fall a Victim to his victorious Arts in Love; for none ever had gain’d greater Renown that way, than the Chevalier davimont. Many blasted Virgins lost their irretrievable Same, and were ruin’d by him; and Widows, also, had rais’d him Such Trophies, that he was styled the common Subduer of the Fair; who wanted no Charm that was requisite for those pleasing Conquests: : — agreeable, easy Air, Setting off his juft proportion’d Limbs, which rose to majestic Height; with Such a peculiar softness in his Eyes, as if the lovely Object, on which he gaz’d, had infpir’d him with all those amorous, tender Desires, which there seem’d Sweetly to tempt. Nor was his Tongue less skill’d than his Looks, in the Arts of Love— —
diverting Wit — a pleasing Insinuation • — with a Submissive Complaisance, and Admiration of their very Foibles as well as their Perfections; which sirft gaining their Esteem, too Soon grew to Love. — But tho’ he knew how to create the greatest Passion in the Breast: of the Fair, yet he was insensible of it himself. That Vanity, the Pride of Subduing the Haughty, the till then unconqer’d, was his only Aim; and like cruel Victors, he never fail’d to leave Such Marks of Melancholy,
as -
J JL rv X K U U Ei
ft
as might blaze around h’s success the innocent, and valuable, the conspicuous Merit, being the only ones he thought worthy to undo : He was of a Temper too covetous, to alfault the experienc’d, the cunning, mercenary Dames. I often have heard him bcaft, the Ruin of eminent Beauty, without any Expense; whilst others have been forc’d to la vissi largely, for Favours almost common. — • Nay, ill natur’d Same has not spar’d, in malicious whispers, to report, that he, by an over match’d Skill at Cards, often left their Estates in as despicable a Condition as, their Character.
Thus adorn’d with every Charm that could please the Eye, in Spite of Reason, Duty, and Virtue, Morenia did not long Suftain the aifault, before Ihe fell in Love, and the Chevalier was victorious. — Though I have heard him protest, he never used more l^iligence, found more Difficulty, nor employ’d So many subtilewiles, as in the obtaining this Conquest; tho’, alas! that Lady was too unskill’d and innocent, to imagine the Mask of Love could be worn by ought that did not feel his Power j whole too Sensible knowledge of her Charms, conspires against her : the mighty Influence they had on the Count, caus’d her to think that all Mankind was touch’d with the like; and the Chevalier s lovely, languid Eyes, thus gazing, on her with Pleasure, made her fondly imagine her excellent Form was strongly impress’d in his Mind; whilst his Sighs, his Silence, with his never to be repuls’d Importunities, Vows, and passionate Adoratfon, quite defeated the weiik Guards of her Virtue.
At
The  . 7
At sirft, with Fears they warily stole their pleasures; but, ' by degrees, growing more bold, and Madam D’avimont perceiving her husband’s Affections daily changing, from ' Neglect to Contempt, did not let her Jealousy reft, till ssie had found the Cause;; ssie reproaching him with in vainj and sinding neither her Rage, Tears, Threats, nor Complaints, of any effect; but still return’d with indignant Scorn, without one Spark of Affection, or Tenderness to ease her; which, unable to bear, ssie made worse, by struggling with it; and at last, hopeless of other re dress, ssie aloud complain’d to Viltagne, how much they were both wrong’d: Which he, alas! was So far from believing, that he treated her as a frantic, jealous, mad Woman, Spitefully envious at the Counteffs exquisitely Superior Charms. Though on acquainting his Lady with the ridiculous Jealousy of Madam jyavitnont (as he term’d it) the Chevalier withdraws his frequent Visits; and' to proceed with more Caution (as they vainly fancied) a Part of the garden wall was broke down, by Some pretended Accident, which he takes the advantage of, to enter at a Parlour window, and ascend up a pair of Stairs that came directly to morenia’s Chamber; who too often, on the Excuse of Illness, lying a part from the Countwhole Nights with d’.^ vimont: where, one Night, there happen’d a Passage, which I will repeat to you, because I believe it will more perfectly acquaint you with the countefs’s Temper, and undaunted Spirit, than my description can: For, d’a vimont havinsf been but late a drinking, and
8
visiting a/orc’izm instead of home, when they we: abed, she perceiving he had a Ring on h Finger, which in the sirft Ingagement of the Love, ssie had given him, in exchange of anther, which he had got made, of equal, if ni Superior Value, as ssie then thought; andui derftanding he had been in Company, Moren fear’d would know the Ring to have bet hers, and, perhaps, inform her Husband of i Having sirft upbraided his carelelfness, ssie ai tempted to get it from him, at the same tirr telling him, ssie only desir’d it for some tim' that if any unlucky Story ssiould be told ft Count, ssie might have it to ssiow him. Bi he valuing the rich Present at too high a rati to part with it, there arose a Quarrel be tween them; and at last, sinding neither he Reasons, nor Entreaties could prevail, unus’ to be repuls’d in her Desires, ssie began t protest, that if he would not give it her, ft would call her Husband in to them, whom a. that very Instant ssie heard coming up th Stairs. But the Chevalier, defpising So will a Threat, persifted in his refusal, which mor inraging. her, ssie rose, and opening the Door desired her Husband to enter; and at the Sami time. Screaming out with the violent Pain o her Head, ssie begs him to Send the Light away, pretending they added inexpreflibl Torture to her Pains; which he immediate!; complying to, ssie returns to her Bed, (thi Curtains closely drawn) and desires him to fii by it; when, after some faint Groans, anc other well dilfembled Agonies, as if ssie wa: extremely indisposed, ssie laying hold of da vimont’s left hand, on which the Ring was.
ru
tif   q
with her Right, She tells her Husband it was So swell’d, ssie could not get it off, and begging his assiftance, gives him the chevalier’s Finger to pull it off, (ac the Same time covering with her Hand his.) The Ring yielding immediately to Villagnes Force, ssie gave it him to keep, till ssie could wear it; and still continuing to complain how very ill ssie was, in treats her Husband he would See himsels Some of the Servants haften’d to fetch a Physician. The doting Husband dreading the Effects of her dissembled Sickness, needed no further Solicitations to go, and hurry his People. He left her as soon as ssie had desir’d it; and, you may believe the Chevalier did not stay long after, who heard him chide Morenia for letting her Women lie at Such a distance from her; at the same time promising to return in a few Moments. And so Sensible was ssie that he would not be long away, that ssie made D’avmont fly downstairs, whilst ssie flung btm" his Clothes out of Window; and then having nothing to do but to dissemble Illness enough not to be suspected, ssie thought herself victorious over her Lover, for daring to dispute with her : Tho’ it is certain the Chevalier took this Trick so ill, that it cost her Some Trouble to be reconciled to him. Unhappy Lady, pursued Stanorius, had you then ceased, and broke oft your criminal Correspondence, you might hate still been the countess of viuagne, still belov’d by your fond Husband, and none then would have dared to have tax’d your Fame, who after insulted you as the most lost, the most abandon’d of Women, But, continued he, when
10 The Prude;
Once begun, when once enter d, how Seldom do the Guilty retire from Vice, and return to Virtue, till Ruin and endless miseries too late make them Senfibie of what then is not to be retrieved 1 This was morenia’s unhappy Cafe, who pursued this criminal Intrigue with D’avimont, till the whole Country was Sensible of her insamy, her Husband only excepted. But at length. Some Friends of Madam D’avimont, having rous’d him to a Suspicion, a Plan was laid to catch them; \ ‘ and watchful Spies being Set round the house,
'' without any Friend to warn her of the Danger, they did not wait many Nights, before they Saw D’avimont entering after the accuftom’d S manner to her Chamber. He had not long been
there, before the Count, accompanied by his Friends, also enter’d the same Way; and drawing the Curtains, > found the guilty Pair abed together — from which Sight turning his Eyes, he went to a Table, where two of d’avimonis Pistols lay, and taking one of them up, Morenia immediately throwing herself out of the Bed at; his Feet, begg’d him to spare and not killlier, in the fullness of Crimes unrepented of; wnigh caus’d him, a .Dw.moments, to look on her without speaking; and at last giving the Pistols to his Friends, (who perhaps were touch’d wfth a little Pity for what before they had en dedyour’d to expose, arid ruin to all Eternity) with Shame, and with a deep Groan, as if his Heart was broke, he bid her put on her Clothes, and that Instant depart his House, which never more Should let her in. At the same time turning to D’avimont, he told him he was Safe, and might, if he pleas’d, take his
^ JT •
  i r
nftress with him. But the Chevalier, hur iing on his Clothes, returned home, without Thought of what would become of her; id in less than three Hours receiving a chal nge from the Count, to meet him the nejct 'ay, he accordingly went to answer it: But hatever alturances (our Ancestors had, of ghting injur’d Ladies Honours, Perjuries, id all sorts of concealed Wrongs, by Justice 11 liding with the victor’s Sword, here vi gne was worsted, and ow’d his Life tp ^’avimont, who did not want Sense to be ive himself handsomely on that Occasion.
In the meanwhile, the wretched, undone ountess, obeying her husband’s stern com and, was obliged to depart, tho’ Ihe knew )t whither to go, or what compassionate ouse would receive Such a Load of Infamy : o Servant of the Count follow’d to assift, or •mfort her in this Distress;; was the ore extreme by the Season, a hoary Frost vering the Ground, the cold bleak Winds erced her to the Heart. Thus be imb’d with Cold, and ftuim’d with her mis rtune, Ihe wander’d the tedious Night, till ay appear’d; and then the.dread of being en, made her rally up Courage enough to ek for Shelter in Some wretched Hut. All : r husband’s meanest Tenants were Sorbid > receive, or take the least Notice of this mi rable Lady; and So great was the general •eteftation of all the Country against Morenia, •r injuring So good a Husband, that not one : any Rank or Distinction, vouchsafed to ke any Notice, or give her the common elief, which Compassion demands from us
jz Frudz.
for the meanest, the vilest of Criminals, wh Sufferings were equal to hers. But now, al; ihe whose Frown was dreaded, and wh Pity was fought in the most suppliant m; ner, is reviled and ridicul’d by the lowi ' the most abject People of the Country.
The first News Ihe heard after her dep ture from the count’s, was of the Duel I tween him and D’avimont, to whom shes to desire to see him; but instead of comply with her Request, he told the Bearer, that began to be sensible of his Folly, and intenc to give over all future Thoughts of it; dring he would tell Morenia, that he intenc not to be prefs’d any more on that score.
Tho’, continuedstaxiofms, I will not prete to describe her Grief, or Resentment, to f herself ruin’d by fatally loving one So lit worthy of it; yet a few days after, m fully to be convinc’d of her Misery, Ihe ag; Sent to desire he would only supply her w as much Money, as would carry her to By fels : But all the Answer she got, was, tl he did not question but a Lady of her go Sense had taken care to provide against fu a Misfortune as had happen’d, which, ^ cording to the manner of her Conduct, 1 must needs expect. This Reproach, at an there time, would have made Morenia do Some desperate thing to him; but now i was in a condition to have her Anger much fcorn’d, as her Afflictions were unp tied. Her Husband was so obdurate, th he would not be prevail’d on to give her tl least Relief; and Suing out a Divorce again her, defir’d all her Friends, that hp migi
urn 13
not hear her mention’d any more than if Ihe never had a Being : Which Morenia being soon made sensible of, resolved by Some means to get to Brujfels, having a Relation there, whose Fortune ftie had raised. But, good God! how surpriz’d was Ihe, when endeavouring to Sell the Ring D’avimont had presented her with, which Ihe carried from the count’s on her Finger, to find it was indeed like himself, a false glittering Pebble, on which (he could not raise two Pistoles!!
Ihe at length got to bruffeu, where the Malice of her Stars treating her with the same Severity they had begun to do in her native Country, that Friend, that Relation from whom she expected some aflift ance, and who to her Generosity ow’d his Rise, and all that he had, instead of affording her that friendly Relief she expected, shut his Door against her, proclaiming her Infamy through the City; so that she was gaz’d on by all as a Mark of Contempt and Scorn; being reduced to such Extremities, that at last, to support Life, (in the destitute Habit of a Beggar) she haunted about an hospital for the musty Victuals that were left by the Sick.
Ah! fd.d Emelia, here interrupting Stanorius, how has this lady’s deep and bitter Affliction, in a moment, turn’d my Indignation into Pity! And sure, pursued she, the most severe Virtue could not help affording her some Relief, — • tho’ her Ingratitude to so tender a Husband, extremely heightens her Offences. — Not but, methinks, he is now too inexorable : It would have been a small
matter to have allow’d her Some little Pen
\

1^4 P R UDE.
(ion, to have saved her from starving, and prevented her from having an excuse to continue the Same guilty course. Your Opinion, anfwed.d Stanorius, is not only merciful, but just;; Ido not question, added he, but if Morenia had fallen within the View of yom Compassion, Ihe would have been preserv’d from returning back to that unhappy State which then her Distresses forc’d her to.
For a Gentleman belonging to the mar quiss de montroviue, happening to go to Sei a wounded Friend in the Infirmary, Saw am knew Morenia, waiting for Food in that ab Ject State I have represented; and beini touch’d with Compassion for So uncommo: an Object of diftress, the next Morning, i his Attendance on the marquiss, took car to acquaint him with it, Marcander and myself being present. De montroviue consulte with us how to relieve this Lady, without let ting her know her Benefactor; he justly ima giningher haughty Soul must feel a thoufan uneasy Pangs, to be forcm to receive a Fc your from him of that kind. On which May hander, who was of the same Country, an had heard such lavish Praises of her Beaut) undertook to carry her de montroviue’s Pre Sent, and conceal from her the generous Dc nor.
But neither her Vtents, nor Grief, bein
able to destroy all that vast Stock pf Beauu
'her patient Sorrow, and her flowing Tear:
adding a distressful Softness to her Eyes, f
greatly pleaded her Afflictions to Marcande
that from feeling all the Power of Pity, fc
soon became acquainted with love’s Forc<
«
1
  15
I So violent a manner, that even in the Grave le still keeps the Same tender Impressions her leauty and misery first made on his Soul, Iorenia, on beholding the Hundred Pieces e brought, (a mighty Sum to her penurious )iftrefles!) tho’ not long besore she had osten irown away as much on a Trifle, or idle lumour. Said, Is it possible, that any one has D much Compassion for the lost, the despised Iorenta! — I cannot believe it, pursued fie, ’s but a deluding, pleasing Dream — and I, las! shall too Soon be waked again to Want, nd all the Terrors with which she haunts northeast. — And then more fully viewing the mo ey, and returning Marcander Thanks for his; enerous condescenfion (as she styled it) in vi iting one So wretched, she Said, continuing ler discourse, Who is it that has been So; reatly good, to beftov/ a pitying Thought m the miserable Morenia? Oh, added fie, I : now it can be no other but the too much wronged viuagne, that would do a Deed So nercisul as this; he was deftind to load northeast with Blessings, whilst my accurs’d Folly las repaid his wond’rous goodness, with sought but the blackest Ingratitude. But when Marcander had aflur’d her it was not rom the Count, her disappointed Hope of his Pity fill’d her with So violent a Grief, that : urning her Eyes to Heaven, she said. Oh let northeast die, before I again endure the torment ng Pains of Hunger, that now prey on my iiital Spirits! This Money will Soon be wafted, and the generous Giver will grow weary af such repeated Favours, and I must again feel all those exquisite Miseries, that now
f
i6
have almost deftroy’d ’me — quite, I hope. I pronouncing the last Word, Ihe fwoon’d a way, and with much difficulty Marcander gc her recover’d; who immediately had her re moved, and provided with Servants, and a other things suiting her Quality. Her Beau ty being restored by Plenty, and a more con tented State of Mind, he became the Admiration of the Place where ftie had lately bee: treated with such Contempt and after Mar canders Friendship to her, was visited by Per Sons of distinction.
It was then, pursued Stanorius, that I hac the honour to be acquainted with her, anc learned from herself several Particulars I havf related; who always, by accusing herself, vindicated the Count her husband’s usage ol her.
But Soon a deep Consumption seiz’d her thought to be occafion’d by her past Severe Hardships; with, perhaps, a Secret fear that if Marcander should desert her, she might a gain fall into the Same unfufferable Misfortunes, the very Thought of which was So terrible to her, that often on the mention of them, she has been ready to Swoon. And indeed, So extremely had her Afflictions ruffled and bow’d her Spirit, from the gay, the extravagant pleasures she once pursued, that she receiv’d her approaching Death with a calm sedateness; employing the short Time, to obtain a more effectual Mercy, than that which the barbarous World refused to her Offences and Sufferings; Marcander
that he would let her Husband know, her last Breath was employ’d in desiring his and Hea
  ij
But had you seen, said Stanorius, the afflicted Marcander, in the latter part of her Illness, all your Concern for her would have been oft, in endeavouring to console him, whole Grief m.d. Care was so extreme, that he daily importuned the Physicians to exert their Skill in striving to Save her; and hardly could he )e drawn from her, to preserve himself by sleep, or Food; and so insupportable was his sorrow for her Death, that he saw not the iun for above a Month. But Time, and his Friends Care, at length prevail’d on him; he uffer’d himself to be led into Company; tho’ fill so deep a Melancholy is fix’d in his Soul, hat all his Joys and Happiness seem buried n her Grave, He did not fail fto have mo enid.s last Request carry’d to viuagne; but bat incensed Husband, now hating with a Violence as extreme as his former Love, ihow’d 10 other Concern for her Death, or Repen: ance, than being'married in a few days to in agreeable Lady, whole Virtues made limas happy, as he had been the contrary kvith Morenia.
Stanorius having finifli’d the History of mo 'enia, the Ladies made Remarks on the fe i^eral Paftages, according to their different Fempers. Elifinda approved viuagne’s rigid Conduct on the discovery of her Crime; erne 'ia blamed d’avimont’s unworthy Passion, and Usage;; Bellamira pitied the disconsolate Grief of Marcander : In which Discourse, most of the Time was wafted, till they arriv’d at emelia’s : Where Stanorius and Mar ■ander were Surprised at the neatness of the
i8
Building, with the well chofen Prospect, whicl being seated on the Side of a Hill, the Front (only intercepted by a few pleasant Pastures over look’d a River, the breadth of which was not so great, as to prevent the diftani Shore from yielding a delightful Landscape t( the Eye. The rising Hills, Ihiriing with golder Corn, caus’d the verdant Vales, and fcattesc Trees, by a confused Variety, at once to entertain them with nature’s chiefeft Works.
But if they were charm’d with this delightful View, which seem’d rather owing tc Chance, than a nice Judgement, how infinitely more were they, when entering the House, they found in Miniature, most of the many difterent Arts and Ways of Building, Statuary, and Painting, that not only Europe, but the World affords. They were from a large Hall led into Several Apartments, the Adornment of which were So different from each other, that whilst they were diverted with the exquisite Painting, the majestic Order, and noble Grandeur of a Roman Model, they were insenfibly led to the rustic Simplicity of i Got hick one, where Fancy appear’d agreeably confus’d with lefsseemmg Art. Nor was Emelia so little pleas’d with her Indian Voyage, as not to have in her House a pattern of their ingenious contriv’d Baths, which, after their manner, were adorn’d with high priz’d. Cabinets, beauteous China Jars, and their gay Pictures.
The Gentlemen took but a slight View of the House, before they understood Dinner was ready, where they found all things order’d, with a decent Elegance, suitable to whatever
  io
* »
Dinner being ended, ssie brought them in: o an Apartment, where, amongst other curious Pictures, was one that represented a beauteous Lady, just yielded up a Prey to ill devouring Death, Surrounded by the weep ng Graces, and every female Virtue expres ing inconsolable Grief for her loss, whose L ife had been strictly guided by their Rules; ind the God of Love appearing nigher the j^ront, in deep despair, had broken his Bow, hrown away his Arrows, whilst with folded trms, and heaving Breasts, his swol’n Eyes vere fix’d on a Tablet, on which was writ, ^aftora is m more.
Marcander, who was pleas’d with every hing that footh’d his Melancholy for the loss if the lovely Morenia, being wonderfully truck with this Piece, prais’d the just pro >riety, with the painter’s excellent Skill and "ancy. Bellgrand said, the last indeed was ncomparable, tho’ he could not bear to Ipok in it, it being but a stiff Copy of a very va uable Original which he had. And yet, /j» werd Emelia, when 1 borrow’d it to have his Copy drawn, and they both had lain bme time, yo^i could not discover the diffe ence, till you examin’d the wrong Side, and bund it by the antiquity of your own Canvas. The' Company smil’d at bellgrand.s fanned Nicety and Skill, So justly exploded by Imelia.
But whilst they were thus amusing them elves in a general Conversation, there being L Piece which represented the Queen of Beauty, ^
lolding in her Hand one of her son’s mifchie uus Weapon?, where ssie feem’d to be conti
o Allfiner
10 Lhe
Suiting with him, in order to have him strike the God of War with the keenest, (who tho’ he lay sieeping, was closely arm’d, as readily prepar’d for an expected Alfault) Stamrm perceiving Bellamira to fix her Eyes on it, (addressing his discourse to her) said. Madam, you See, tho’ that dreadful God can alarm the whole World, with his tremendous Power, with how Secure, how triumphant a Smile, the Goddess and her Son exult over a Hero too Secure of her more victorious Charms. Now, I rather think, reply’d Bellamira, that pleased, that Satisfied Air, which appears in both their Looks, is owing to the finding him asleep, whose fternness would certainly fright them away, were he awake. Were he, as sensible of your beauty’s Power, refum’d sta moriiis, as that fam’d Deity is, you would know, that tho’ he with outrageous Destruction made whole Nations groan, yet to your enchanting Form, and celestial Perfections, he would bow with pleased Submission, and no more employ his Arms, but to guard and protect you. Methinks, dnfwer’d Bellamira, I would willingly owe my Security to something less, who, perhaps, in his Anger, might without distinction destroy me too. — I perceive, said Stanorius, with a difeontented Look, the Soldier, the esteemed Favourite of the Fair, has something in him too terrible to please the delicacy of yourdisposition. You mistake, refum’d fie; for I both esteem and admire them, when they turn their Force, and undaunted Valour, only against their country’s Foes; tho’ even then, methinks, I would have
them, when the remorseless Fury of the Sight
is
The Frude. Zl
is past, let Mercy reassume her Empire, not only to spare the Captive, but endeavour to lighten their Afflictions, by Ossi ces of Humanity. I hope. Madam, answer’d he with an Air of Gallantrythat Mercy you prescribe to the Conquerors in War, you’ll exercise to the wretched Slaves your victorious Beauty has bound in the never to be broken Chains of Love. Nfere I mistress, replied fie, of those Perfections your Flattery would insinuate, you have justly observ’d I am too ignorant of its Power, to be able to judge what to do with my imaginary Slaves. — Do not believe, said Stanorius, zvith a more serious Look, but your numberless unequal’d Charms, too much excel all Description to admit of Flattery; they dart so dangerouoy bright, that the senses grow wild with pleasure, and the o’erwhelm’d Soul is lost amidst their attracting Lustre— — discourse is beyond my Comprehension, said Bellamira; at the Same time rising from her Seat, and joining with the Company, whilst an angry Blussi, that o’erfpread her Face, mado Stanorius Sensible her Heart was not like to prove an easy Prey.
Elifinda, all the time of their Discourse, observing them, and too plainly perceiving each Look and Action of his confess the Lo >; Jealousy, with all her Train of restless Torments, in a moment seiz’d her : her haughty Soul could not bear to sind herself neglected, and a present Beauty triumphing o’er her novv despised Charms. Pride, Envy, and the Desire to be reveng’d, in an instant, railed such an Uproar in her Soul, that unable tp contain, or command the struggling pas
Zl The r R u D e.
fions, he immediately withdrew, to give them vent, and with her Confidant meditate Revenge.
When it was told Emelia, that Eugenia pas sing by her House, and hearing ssie was return’d, came to pay her a Visit; the friend ssiip ssie had for that Lady, caus’d Emelia to receive her with open Arms : But how surpriz’d was ssie, to See Lugenia habited in the forlorn Weeds of Widowhood! who, when ssie left the Country, had scarce lost the Name of Bride: Which Emelia expressing by an amazing Concern, the other, from the full An? guissi of Soul, answer’d her in Tears; and her Grief being too violent to be stifled, ssie utr ter’d her Sorrows in disconsolate Complaints, contrary to the well-bred Silence observed on Such Occasions. But Marcander, touch’d with her Plaints, and pitying Afflictions, that had So nighly resembled his own. Seconded her Sadness, by Saying, No Misfortune could equal the loss of a dearly lov’d Friend by Death; for if they were inconstant or false, a resenting Anger generally prov’d a Corrosive to cure the Disappointment; but from Death there was no Retrieve, no friendly Hope, nothing but Despair, and heart wounding Anguissi. — ■ To which the fair Widow joining in Expressions full of Grief, began to tell how happy ssie had been, how very much belov’d, and now how more than miserable his Loss had made her : Aiid this melancholy Talk now suiting better with Marcander, than the gayer Conversation of those who were not touch’d with Sorrows like wssiat he and the difconfojate Lugenia suftain’d; they soon from
the
  Zj
the affinity of their Woes, began to cultivate a great Esteem for each other.
The Weather being extremely hot, Emelia led the Company into an open summerhouse, which being built on the highest Eminence of the Garden, at once difcover’d to their View, the Country River, and a Park, that joined to the Garden, where they could behold the neat limb’d Deer, Sporting in careless Delight, now fearless of the Hunter, and his voracious Train. Marcander was ivivpix’ized and charm’d at the beauteous Prospect, with the Order, and Variety that appear’d thro’ all the Garden : And though Stanorius was better acquainted with it, and saw, and knew the once delightful Window, through which, by the help of a corded Ladder, he pafs’d to the fair Elifinda; yet, on those Occasions, he had taken such slight Views, that his Wonder was little less than Marcander s.
This well chofen spot of Ground had formerly been a Wood, on the fide of a moderately rising Hill, thro’ which ran a Brook, which now helped by Art, in several Turnings winding about the whole Garden, towards the Bottom united its Separated Streams into one great one, which in a delightsul caf cade descended into a Canal where Statues of Nereids and Sea nymphs were placed; others bathing or Sporting on the Banks, combing their green Locks; around which grew ail Sorts of choice Flowers, as confusedly fcat ter’d, as if it had only been done by the wild Hand of Nature. — Green Walks ascending on each fide of the Cascade, were lined with the climbing Jelfamine, and the well-known
14
rose, that everywhere diffus’d its Sweets; — which at length fell into others, ssiaded over head by several Ways, and meeting here and there, at once entertain’d the Eye with beauteous Parterres, Flowers, Fountains, and green Arbours; whilst the Ears were charm’d with a
\ Chorus of almost all the winged Songfters.
^ But that Wonder ceas’d, when advancing
farther into the woodieft part of the Garden, an Aviary was difcover’d, which Emelia had So artfully contriv’d, to preserve her imprison’d Musicianers, that by removing the Covers, they had all the Advantage of the Sun, and Air, without Suffering anything from Storms, and the most inclement seasons.
But tho’ the general Conversation was on the delightful Beauties of the Garden, yet Marcander, and the lovely Widow, (whom Emelia prevail’d on to stay a few days at her House) by their mournful Talk, So sooth’d their Grief, that at length, amidst their Discourse on the Perfections of the Dead, they began to be Sensibly touch’d with each other’s, especially Marcander.
But Night, and the time of Repose advancing, Elijinda, (who in Spite of stanijfd.s Per suasion, that ssie might be mistaken) endured all the infufterable Torments of Jealousy;; too skilful Discernment easily perceiving the cold Neglect of one day’s changed Love; and the innocent Object being so nigh, added a treble Vexation, by feeing the Complaisance, the indearing Civilities, and Adorations paid to another, which once were hers. stantjfa’s Observation, how'' unsuccessful his Addresses would prove, had no effect to assiiage her
  15
Resentment: It was enough ssie had Charms, and he a Heart susceptible of them, for her to resolve to pirrsue them both, with the deadliest Revenge, though her experienc’d Confidant did not fail to enforce, that Stanorius was of i Spirit too haughty to bear it, without severely retorting it, by blasting her Fame, with ill the fatal consequences that naturally must mfue; telling her, ssie was too sensible it was easier to gain a hundred new, than to recall >ack one deserted Heart. Which wrought It last So far on her, as to fuller Stanijfa to JO and expostulate with him, and by that means : ither to be freed from the torment of fuspcct ng, or certainly to be convinc’d.
St ani [fa obeying her Order, (as soon as sta torius was retired to his Chamber) visited lim; who at sirft but faintly denying the Charge, [uickly owned the Revolt of his Heart: nd so great was the Power of his Eloquence, m.d. Gold, that Stanijfa too revolts, is false to "riendssiip, and unmindful of her extreme ob igations to Elifinda; now assisting his new ’assion, acquainting him with all the Foibles, ind Secrets of that Family, with Instructions low most artfully to wind himself into their Cempers : Nor does ssie omit to inform him, hat ssie fears the agreeable Lysander had ouch’d bellamira’sheart, withemelia’s friend hip for him; and how Elifinda, and ssie, got he Letter heretofore mention’d; adding, ssie uspected Emelia Secretly favour’d him, tho’ he was certain her nice Honour would not iiffer her to press in his behalf, unless For: une ssiould advance him to a higher Rank han there was yet any probability of: That
2(5 Shes S.VIOE.
i
Ihe indeed' had the most Power over beliami ias Inclinations, but that her Fortune was So entirely in her brother’s power, that unless ssie married with his consent, Ihe had no Pretences to any; and tho’ he was very much in; Bneiwed by. Elifinda, yet ssie was pertain the Knowledge he had of stanvrim’s great into rest at Court, with the Hopes that So near an Alliance might introduce him into the Ministry, would over balance all persuasions gainst it. Stanijfa also aftur’d Stanorius, ssie was confident Bellgrand had so passionate a Desire to be a statesman, as to be certain t(iat one Foible in Courage, would make him invulnerable to eufindps resentment, or per fuasions; from whom ssie advised him to conceal his Love, till he had sirft wrought on the Brother to consent. Nor did ssie omit to inst

timate, that if Emelia was to be drawn to hh Interest, it must be by nicely insinuating an Admiration of her Conduct, and Compassion, with what an agreeable easiness ssie trod the rugged Paths of Virtue. Nor did Stanijfa fail to promise Stanorius, that ssie would amuse elifinda)s Suspicions with all her Skill.
Stanorius having thus got the Clue to wind himself into all their Tempers, and bellgrand.s Affections, did not fail as artfully to put it into practice. It was pleasant to see with what Address he persuaded Bellgrand a peculiar Gravity in his Air would become the Statesman; that he was certain his Notions were so fitly adapted to the Spirit of the French, that once enter’d into Business, he did not question but he would equal Mazarines Solidity of Tudgment, quick Penetration, and
The Prude ly
subtle Schemes : Which so exactly answer’d stanijjd.s Advice, that he immediately grows Trave, Sententious, and mysterious; all his Shoughts bessig now employ’d how to become i complete Politician. And So transported is le with Stanorius, that without giving him the rouble to ask, he tells him he wissies la could be prevail’d on to marry, whose for une was considerable; but if he would ac; ept of Beliamira, to have the Happiness of his Alliance, he would double the Portion her fa her had left her. To which the pleased sta \orius answer’d, by telling him, his obliging hoposal had only prevented his requesting t: and for fear of Elijinda, he did not leave 3ellgrand till he had gain’d from him a solemn
h'omife, that no Solicitations should make
lim revoke it.
But, alas! how differently was this intend d Marriage received by the Ladies! Emelia 5- troubled and concern’d; ssie pities lyfan ler, and tho’ ssie owns Stanorius the sine gen leman, and of unquestionable Birth and for une, yet ssie thinks his Morals too loose to nake Bellamira a good Husband, any longer han his Passion lasts, which ssie is not insen ible may too Soon be worn out; Whilst bella lira, by declaring her Hatred to Stanorius, ind this Match, avows her tenderness for yfander* She weeps, ssie begs Emelia to in ercede with her Brother, owning ssie had ra,, with an humble Fortune be happy with 'jyfander, than amidst the dazzling Grandeur ia Court, wretched with Stanorius.
When Elifinda first from her Brother Iearn’4 his distracting News, ssie flew into Such an
2.0 jltjtt r K.D D EF
outrageous Passion, that he imagin’d ssie was beside her Wits, * who making stanorm’s lewdness her excusc, in bitter Terms exclaims against him, and repeats all his Intrigues and Faults; adding. Was Such a one fit for her innocent Sister? But beugrand, who by this time was grown too great a Politician, to mind a woman’s Railings, only laughs at all ssie could enforce, against Stanorius; telling her, he had reasons above her weak Discernment, and that trifling Women were not to be consulted in Affairs of Consequence;; her to mind her Devotions, and leave him to act as he ssiould judge proper. This prove / king her beyond all Patience, ssie did not omit in her fatyrical Anger to let him know llie, could not think it was the Excess of his Wisdom that had caused him to make this Match. And sinding him in a Humour so little inclined to hearken to reason, ssie at last left him; when passing thro’a Gallery to her own Apartment, ssie met Stanorius, wssio, before ssie Spoke, perceiv’d by the Anger that flassi’d in her Eyes, ssie was acquainted with the designed Marriage : whilst ssie advancing hastily to him, Said, Do not imagine, though you have obtain’d my brother’s consent, that I will ever Suffer this criminal Marriage; base Man, cry’d fie, is it not enough, that you have wrought upon my easy Nature, but you must affront me in So near a Relation? A Sister 1 — ’ Good God, said fie, continuing her Discourse, can it be pos fible that Such wickedness ssiould enter the Heart of Man? ■ — What, can your black Soul be Satisfied with nothing less than the horrid, the abominable Crime of Incest? ^ Are you
not
  19
lot afraid the Fiends and Furies will haunt hour guilty Soul, and drag you quick to in tenal perdition, for even the very Desire of t? On which Stanorius looking on her with i scornful Smile, said. Had not your Ladyssiip : alk’d in So pious a Strain, I should have imagin’d your Anger had bedn real; but. Madam, lurfued he, you are Sensible you and I are too well acquainted with each other’s Opinion on : hat Point, for you to imagine I Should have my apprehension or fers of Sprites and gob ins : And, added he, I will only presume to : ell you, I can no more now resist adoring ihe amiable beuamira, than I once could the Fair Elifinda; tho’ with this difference, as my Passion is infinitely more violent, and, I believe, more lasting, I would not advise you to op pose it, lest in my disappointed Anger, I should happen to discover the reasons that induce you to So great a Cruelty.
these last shocking Words, so extremely increas’d her already high wrought Rage, that (he could only express it by broken Speeches, and stamping; and had certainly done Some extravagant Outrage, had not Stanijfa then enter’d the Gallery, and with a wild Concern in her Looks, desir’d to Speak with her. At which Stanorius, with a low Bow, withdrew, leaving that Confidant to inform her Phomafo was return’d from his Voyage, and had had the Assurance to follow her to emelia’s, where he had made So insolent a noise amongst the Servants to See her, as to cause them, said Staniffa, to call me to him; whom he treated with Such a Surly .Impudence, that I fear he intends to be very audacious, unless you See him, and fully Satisfy his Demands, Floods
; 6 Shep R U D E.
Floods of Water thrown on raging Fires, could not more effectually stifle the impetuous Flames, than this News in a moment did Elifinda s Anger : Cold Fear, with a thousand jntangled Thoughts, now distract her, so that Ihe knows not what to do : See him she muff Stanijfa having convinc’d her, he was come with a design to affront her, unless she comply’d with his Request. Nor was Ihe mistaken, for Phomafo having spent the Money Elifinda gave him, and boasted of her Favours was, by his lewd drunken Companions, persuaded to return home, and threaten her if Ihe would not support his Extravagance : And not finding her in Town, he took the opportunity of following her to emelia’s, in the Same vile Company, who Were obliged to bring their Sloop into that Part of the Country, to delix^er out some Goods not above two Miles from thence. — Thus was forced
to see him, and strive, by a Soothing Compliance, join’d with her Money, to bribe his Silence : When after Some discourse about his return, and understanding the Vestel he went in, had brought him So nigh to emdia’s, fly dismiss’d him with an Appointment to meet her that Night at eleven a clock, under the garden wall, where Ihe would come to him.
But tho’ Love and Stamrms perplex’d the beauteous beuamira, and tormented Elifinda, he began to exercise his Power in a more pleasing manner on the Heart of Marcander; for the lovely weeping Widow had nigh difpelsd the Remembrance of Morenia; her pa thetick Sorrow for the Dead, So exactly fyni “pathiz’d with his own, that from compaffio
  5
hating, he grows tender; his own Afflictions are forgot in being uneasy at those Ihe endures. Her three Days stay with Emelia, wrought so great a Change in him, that at her departure, it seem’d as is his Life and Senses too were departed; and often Sorcing a Discourse of her to Emelia, that Lady at length entertain’d him with Some Palfages of lugenias Life in these Words.
Ihe History of Lugenia.
».
Th off aid Emelia, Lugenia is now the only
Child of the Chevalier de blanvtue, who has a very considerable Estate, yet not three Years since, he had two Sons that caused him and Madam de Blanvilk to look on lu genia as an Encumbrance on their Estate;; they resoiving not much to lelsen by giving her too large a Fortune, this was, I am confident, Jh/j Emelia, the real reason that they encourag’d the Addresses of a young Gentleman named Philamont, who was infinitely more obliged to Nature for the Accomplishments of his Mind, than to the Liberalities of Fortune. However, his Love to Lugenia causing him not to mind the parsimonious Offers of her Parents, the Day of their Marriage was fix’d; when de blanviue received a Letter from the University, whither he had Sent his Sons to study, in which was the afflicting News that one of them was already dead oath Smallpox, and the other in So dangerous a way, a
to cause them to desoair of his Recovers
Ti The  .
This being a just excuse to delay the Marriage for lome time, Philamont Soon perceiv’d by the change of de blamiue’s and his lady’s Behaviour, that all his Hopes of having that young Lady, depended on the Life of her Brother i which silling him with a grief equal to his Love, he complain’d of it to Lugenia', who, ignorant of her Parents Sentiments, persuaded him his Fears were vain; and that their Coldness proceeded only from the extremity of their Grief, which had too much ftunn’d them, to be capable of that Complaisance they usually paid their Friends: Tho’, to calm his uneasy Doubts, ssie afl'ur d him (if her Parents ssiould prove so cruel) neither their persuasion, nor Force, ssiould have any Effect on her Heart, which ssie vow’d to preserve inviolably his.
But tho’ the amorous Philamont was for the present pacified to sind Lugenia s Faith and Love unalterable, the News of their Second son’s Death caused de blanviue and his Lady, after they had sirft acquainted Lugenia with their Mind, publicly to declare to Philamont, they thought him not now a sit Match for their Daughter; and at the same time making him sensible his Departure was desired, they would not Suffer him to take Leave of that Lady, whom they had confined to her Chamber.
The abrupt and disobliging Manner in which they exprefs’d their Mind to him, caused Philamont to quit their house with a resentment great as his Grief; who immediately coming to me, express’d his Concern for that amiable lady’s Lost in such moving
Shep R U D E.
Lerms, that I thought him truly worthy of Pity. But tho’ he painted their usage in a nanner that fhow’d his resentment was deep, ' pet Love being predominant, he Soon began to jeg my Frlendlhip, (knowing there was a ^reat familiarity between that Family and lie) to try what my persuasion could do in lis behalf. I promis a him to employ all my [ntereft, tho’ I defpair’d of succeeding; when fi the midst of our Discourse, his Man, who laid behind to pack up his Linen, brought lima Letter, which he Said Lugenia had hrown him out of a Window : Philamont )pening it, found in it these Words.
The Unhappy Lugenia to Philamont.
T Know not how my Father has dealt with you but fear., by his late Conversation with me, le has not scrupled to acquaint you with the in mman Resolution he has taken, to part us for ver. — Phe very Phought is more bitter to me han Death would be; mr do I believe phila nont can bear it with much more Fortitude,
How cruel a Monfier is Ambition! and how loes it break all Bands of Friendfiip, Love, and ven paternal Pity! For, it’s not a Month fence le commanded me to receive, to regard, and love ou as a Husband; and how readily did I obey hat delightfid Command! and how did it cause northeast to indulge a Passion I before would not permit ny self to think on! I told my Father this, when he forbid me ever to see you again, and charged northeast to forget ym; but that, alas! I neither can tor will do, so long as Philamont has any Regard for the wretched Lugenia. ips true, I owe my
Ihe
Parents such refpeb and Duty, as not to many till their Consent is again obtain’d; which if they continue to deny, helieve me, no ill usage jhau force me to be another’s, if I cannot he yours, who frft lov’d me without any View of Interest— — - shall fortune’s fickle changing, ever alter me, so long as I find you faithful to youy
ltfgekla.
If you can contrive to write td Yhe whilb I am tonfirid, I will look every Night out of the Window, and find means to draw up whatever Philamont sends.
The Lover, a little confblated with this Letter, refolv’d to wait till their Grief was abated, and then tty What the Intercession of Friends could do; relying on lugenia’s Constancy, with whom he took care to keep a Correspondence by Letters, as ssie had directed.
The Parents continuing obstinate against him, especially Madam de Elanville, who never had a Value for her Daughter equal to that ssie had for her deceased Sons, they Suddenly remov’d with Lugenia to Town, and carrying that young Lady to Court, her Beauty, Such as you see (not but her Grief has made Some disadvantageous Changes in her person) join’d to her other Perfections, and great Fortune, gained a Crowd of Adorers; among which, her Father declar’d in favour of a Nobleman somewhat advanc’d in Years. And Lugenia finding neither her Tears, norliitrea ties could prevail ou her Parents, ssie at last refolv’d, to acquaint her designed Husband,
 ' j5
that her Heart and Vows were another’s, and that unsess Heaven and her Parents permitted her to be philamont’s, Ihe ssiould esteem herself the miserableft of Women. Her Entreaties and Reasons prevail’d on this Lover to delift from his Pretensions; which when her Father difcover’d her to have been the Cause of, irritated by his Lady, he rassily commanded her to leave his house, and never tp appear ain in his sight; telling her, ssie had vainly flatter’d herself, that her being an only Child ssiould cause them to indulge her in So ridiculous afoliy. Poor Lugenia is forced to obey them; but tho’, said Emelia, ssie still held a Correspondence with Philamont, yet ssie had the discretion, instead of going to him, to come directly into the Country tb me, and desire my Protection, till her Parents were appeasm. I very much approving her Conduct, klfur’d her ssie was welcome; and being Sensible of her Afflictions, did all I could to divert her. sbut tho’ I was not without Suspicions, that Philamont and ssie often wrote to each other, yet ssie never desir’d to see him at my house, knowing it did not agree with my Sentiments, to encourage Lovers against their Parents Approbation; not that I did not vpry much blame hers, for their ungenerous Behaviour to Philamont, joinm with their Cruelty to so valuable a Child.
But whatever my Sentiments were, said Emelia, Madam de blanviues Vanity being extremely mortified to find her Daughter so obstinately refuse to become a Peeress, together with her Grief for the death of her Scms, the youngest of which was her Favourite
^0 r R U p E,
that IB less than six Months ssie died, without ever desiring to be reconciled to Lugenia. And de blanviue, exasperated, by the loss of his ' Lady, against Lugenia, complaiffd Ihe had
broke her mother’s Heart; adding, that rather than he would Suffer Philamont to inherit his Estate, he would marry, and beget a new Race. That Gentleman being told of this, it occasion’d his writing a Letter to Luge ^ nia on thatsubject; when the Servant that was usually entrusted to carry his Letters to her, by some means being intoxicated with Liquor, and staying in Company that pleas’d him, desired a Neighbour to deliver it, who by Mistake, or Design, went with it to de blanvillh House; and he knowing it to be Philamonth
Hand, open’d it, and read the following Lines.
*
Philamont to Lugenia.
0’ your Complaints are only against Fortunes •I Cruelty, yet Fortune and Lugenia roo conspire to make me miserable;; how little should / that blind deity’s Favours, could I persuade you from your toofieady Obedience to the cruellefl of
Fathers I — Alas! he has abandon’d that little,
1
and his Cruelty has freed you from all filial Duty, or Regard to hin, who is so very insensible of what belongs to a Parent, as to use the befl of Children with a Barbarity unparallel’d: Has he ever dif cover’d one Spark of Love, Tenderness, or even Pity in the midst of his inhuman treatment; and would not he suffer you to want the common Supports oj Life, were it not for the admirable Emelia? And so great is his Aver fion, that tho’ he is sensible Madam deblanville never had such a Regard for you,
as
Tm X H U D E. 37
as to have any Concern for your Happiness, yet he charges you with breaking her Heart, vowing in revenge to marry, tho’ one would imagine, his Age and Infirmities would rather make him think on these that should attend his Qbfequies, than hy men’r Porch.
Dear Lugenia, do not chide, but think on the Reafonahlenefs of these severe Pruths: think, though you affure me your Heart is mine, how very wretched I must be, so long as my Happiness depends on the inexorable de Blanville, who, I am too certain, will refuse the adored Lugenia with, his last Breath., to her passionate Admirer.,
philamont.
%
Pho* Philamont is thought unworthy ^luge nia, / am told your''mother*s Woman is the happy Person whose Children are to inherit de blan ville’r Estate: buh^how little would that trouble me, could I prevail on your obstinate Virtue to become mine.
it’s impossible, said Emelia, to represent what a Rage the reading of this Letter put de Blanville in; ordering his Chariot to be made ready, he came immediately to my House: : ver y much Surprised to See him, I was thinking in what manner I ssiould receive him, (because, ever since Lugenia had been with me, tho’ I had wrote both to him and his Lady, yet ndther of them answer’d my Letters, or visited me. He began sirft to entertain me with his Anger and resentment, (occasion’d by philamont’s Letter) what I found most • him, was the Scandalising him about his Maid, and ridiculing his Intentious to marry
After.
35  '
After he had Ihown me the Letter, in Words that express d the violence of his Passion, he appeal’d to me, whether Lugenia was not very much to be blamed, for continuing to love a Man that had Such disrefpectful Notions of her Father : But I was So far from being of his Opinion, as to tell him mysentiments were, that he had drawn this on himself, by the Severity of his Usage ^ that I thought from Philamont he ought to take nothing ill, if he would but consider how very unliappy he had riiade that Lover, by disappointing the fulness of his Hopes; whose sirft Pretension to his Daughter was on equal Terms, and that their Affection for each other, was too solemnly confirm’d by his consent and Approbation, not to be a Crime to part them now. And sinding he was violently offended at Philamont for raising that Report about his Maid, I alter’d him it was the Talk of the whole Country; which, together with my representing Lugemcis unalterable Duty and Regard for him, in spite of her lover’s continual Solicitations to the contrary, sofar pacified him, that before he parted from me, he Saw and was reconciled to his Daughter, and in less than a Month, by the continual Solicitations of philamont’s Friends, he was brought to give his Consent to their Marriage : And I believe, said Emelia, they would have been perfectly happy in each other, had Providence thought sit to have preferv’d the lov’d Philamont to his dear Lugenia, who own’d her strict Obedience, and steady Perseverance increasm his Esteem and Admiration, at the Same time that
it sill’d him with all the uneasy Pangs of a
desne
  39
desperate despair; which, Emelia, lam of Opinion was So extreme, as to occasion that ill Disposition of Health, that so soon after their Marriage put a period tb lugenid.s Happiness by his Death.
Scarce had Emelia finissi’d thesewords, when it was told her the Chevalier de Blanville was come to visit and congratulate her return into the Country; vvho happening to sind So much good Company at emelia’s, staid the whole Day, inviting the Gentlemen the next morning to a hunting match that was to be in his Park. They all readily accepted the obliging Invitation, especially Marcander, who, by that means, was in hopes again to See the amiable Widow: and the Gentlemen being intent en their morning’s Diversion, all the Company retired Sooner than usual to their Rest, that they might the earlier rise to their Sport.
This gave Elijinda an opportunity with less difficulty to meet Phomafo, whom Ihe design’d the Engine that should execute her horrid Revenge, for stanorius’s insults: In vain did her Considant advise her, by peaceably Submitting to the Marriage, still to keep him her Friend; who, said Ihe, Ido not question but thus obliged, will readily assift you in getting rid for ever of the impudently troublesome Phomafo, by having him prefs’d for a Soldier, and sent to the Frontiers. But sofar was she from hearkening to her, that ssie raved, ftamp’d, and all her Features were distorted with the violence of her Passion, vowing either to be reveng’d, or perissi in the at temot: and to Stanilfa hints her heli contri
40 Lhe Fr u I) E.
ved Design; but sinding she starts at the horrid Wickedness of it, Ihe remembers her always a Friend to Stanorius, and pretends to decline it. But when Ihe met Phomafo, full of the infernal Mischief, she having learned from him in the Morning that he came up the River in a Vestel, and inquiring the Strength of it, and whether his Companions durft be bold, and venture a little Hazard, to make their own, and his ¥ovt\me, Phomafo promis’d largely for himself and them, assiiring Elifinda, by the help of her ladystiip’s Gold, he can influence them to do everything ssie desired; though he tells her, it must be Speedily put in execution, because they were obliged to return with the Vestel in less than two days. Whereupon ssie order’d him to lie at Anchor about a Mile up the River, and conceal himself with the rest; only letting two of them appear, as if a sissiing, and she would take care to bring them their Prey : adding a Charge to Phomajo to ravissi her, as Soon as he had got her a board, and telling him ssie was certain that by that means lost and ruin’d, ssie would be brought to marry him, and her Fortune was large enough to raise him above any fear of future Wants.
This more than devilissi Contrivance being thus laid, with other particular Instructions, too tedious here to be inserted, they parted; and the pious Elifinda, who had so nice a care of her Reputation, as not to admit of innocent Pleasures, for fear of being thought guilty of too much Levity, now, as if bereft of her Senses, is acting the basest of Crimes, with mean Villains, that had neither the Skill to manage,
r\or that sense of Renutafion fhar rnnld in
  41
uce them to a Desire of Concealment : So reat. So intolerable a Fiend is jealousy, and isappointed Love in a woman’s Breast, efpe ally one So lost to all Virtue 1 But night’s humid Shades being dispersed f the morning’s rosy Beams, the gentle len went to their Sport, and Emelia was less at day crowded with Visitors than Ihe had : en since her return; and after Dinner Ihc ceived a Packet of Letters, which Ihe open g to read, beuamira (who only was present Tceiving as ssie perus’d it, her Colour often • change from a glowing Red, to a deadly lie, concern’d at her Disorder, began to en lire the occasion. On which that Lady an rer’d. it’s a Letter from Lysander;; Some irt of it has so nigh a relation to the cause all my Misfortunes, that the reading of it s again revived my past Afflictions with fressi Supportable Torments. -- — — These Words, ' gether with the loved Name of Lysander, ised so great a Curiosity in beuamira, that, ving gained emelia’s Permission, ssie imme
ately began to read the following Lines.
-
Lysander to the Generous Emelia.
Afn certain, could you he fenjible how great a Relief I find in that excellent Goodness which has rmitted me to speak the Angtiifl) of my Soul, you ver would repent the generous Condefcenfon.
Tethoxv infinitely great would the additional blef g be, would you vouchsafe to honour me with the owiedge that yours, and bellamira’.y Health and dppinefs, has been the peculiar Care of Heaven; and 'ery protebim Power, (who sure are pleas’d with
4z T^^
their Charge) might gaze on her faultless Beauty,
'admiring perfeslions that have so nigh a Resemblance
io their own Excellency : And how happy, hoia blefs’d Was I, in beholding that matchless Charmer t And hold very miserable am I now, banifpd from that delightful View! lorturing Racks are trifling Miseries to the Pangs the ivhetch endures, that loves, adores, and yet despairs. Why was I made with a Soul to be fenjible of such perfeslions, to know no Happiness, but in obtaining, who am deprived even in Hope? But I must check the. Reins of my Passion, for fear 1 offend; tho’ 1 would endeavour, by a faint Description of my infupportahk Pains, to move your Pity. I know too wed my pre fumpnious Folly, without being able to finda Cure; the pleasing, but fatal Passion, already begins U prey on the Springs of Life, since Bella mira’r de parture, calm Sleep, and needful Appetite are fled; and soon, J hope, my Death will convince that lovely Lady, Lysander deferv’d her Pity, thd Fortune was his Enemyand cause thedompaffionate Emelia to excufethis Presumption.
But tho’ Reason forbids the Hope, yet so extreme a.fiattercr is Love, that I cannot help informing the generous Emelia, that since she has been pleased to own a Friendship for me, the propitious Powers have seconded it beyond myfondeji leiftyes : For the truly noble Count Claronville, volo, from my Infancy, favour d me with his particular Notice, which as I grew increas’d, has oj late, by condefeending to a more familiar Intimacy, exprefs’d Jo great, so unequal’d a Friendftoip, that I want tvords to declare its value. He this very Morning, (as he said) observing my late difcen content, and endeavottring to knozu the Cause, (though in vain) at lennh told me, nothin^; in his power

Should he wanting to complete my Happinefsajfu ytng me on Iois Honour, within a few Weeks my Fortune Should be so vastly advanced, as to satisfy the Ambition of any subjeb. Phis, only as it may make me worthy (infome degree) to think of Bellamira, has fill’d me with inexpressible foi; for au the Count claronvilla Promises are sacred; heneer decav’d with flattering Hopes, his lafl Encouragement is certain Success todhe anxious Suitor; Volumes might be writ on his peculiar Virtues to the admiring World, whose nice Honour., well judgd Resolution, and steady Courage, never were corrupted by Ambition, changed by Interest, or iha ken by Fear.
But I am on tins pleasing subjesl too tedious, and perhaps may tyre the excellent emelia’s tience. Phis one Hope encouraging me to beg u would still continue the same favourable sen uments to me, and entreat the lovely Bellamira not to resent this Presumption, if Fortune, and the more steady Claronville, fioould declare in favour of her unhappy, but eternal Adorer,
LYSANDER.
Bellamira haying read the Letter, transported at the extraordinary Change that .was like to be in lyfander’s Fortune, said, I See his Perfections are too conspicuous not to be sfteem’d and valued by the Ingenious, and the Virtuous; for you know, Madam, pursued fioe, : he Count Claronville is the ssiining Pattern of all that’s truly great and noble. I know, said Emelia, with a wild diftrabion in her Looks, le is quite the reverse, the Cruelty of hung ry Eygers are in his Nature — — lie cannot do a
jenerous thing — it’s all Artifice — he has b
44* rrude.
habituated himself to deceive, it’s now become natural — you’ll see these extraordinary Caresses are to delude that unfortunate Gentleman into bitter Ruin; and yet, pursued that heart grieved Lady, how many fair engaging Virtues seem to direct his Actions 1 Just So bright an Appearance betraying Angels put on, when they would corrupt the Innocent.
Emelia had doubtless farther explain’d the Cause of her Indignation to the aftonissi’d Bellamira, had not Elijinda that moment enter’d the Room; and after some slight Talk, looking towards the River, she began to praise the sineness of the Evening, the clearness (f the Air, with the Smoothness of the Water t' And at length Saying, Ihe had a mind to divert herself on the River, Ihe ask’d Bellamira to accompany her; which ssie being willing to do, the pleasure boat was made ready, tho’ they went with fewer Servants than usual, because most of the Men waited on Bellgrand to the Hunting. Just as the Sisters were going, the heart boding Emelia told them ssie had so great a Heaviness on her Spirits, that ssie would go with them, to try if the Air would disperse it. But tho’ this happen’d to be very disagreeable to Elifinda, yet resolving it ssiould not prevent her Design, and pretending to like that part of the River best, where the Vesiel lay, the Men wtre order’d to row towards it; but when they came in view of the fissier men, who feem’d busy in catching their Fissi, how wondeifully did Elifinda Seem taken with them! She prais’d their Industry, and pitied the hard Labour by which they got their Bread, and provided for themselves and Families S
The 1^ R U D E. 4.5
imilies; and being desirous to advance more close, and observe them at their Business, with what Astonishment are Emelia and Bellamira seiz’d to hear themselves treated in a Language unsit for the tender Ears of their Sex I But Emelia immediately ordering the Men to row back. Fear and Horror were join’d to their Aftonissiment, to perceive four or five conceal’d Men Suddenly appear, and calling their Hooks to the Boat, begin to drag Bellamira into the Vesiel. emelia’s true Love and Value for that young Lady, was on this Occasion seen; who folding her in her Arms, said. You shall not part us, kill us both together, for I will not be Separated from her. On which one of the Monsters Said, Come then, (at the Same time, giving her a pull up after Bellamira) the more we have, the merrier we ssiall be. Elijinda being left behind, by her Screams and Cries pretended mightily to deplore their Loss;; one of emelia’s Servants being struck down in her’s and Bellamirds defence, ftie bid the other row away for fear of herself; and the Vesiel parting from the Boat, began first to Saji up the River, but when they were hid by the black Shades of Night, with all their Sail they made down the River.
Where we must leave them, and the di ftress’d Lady, and return to Lysander, who ever since the Marriage of Honorius, had had so deep a Melancholy imprinted on his Soul, as visibly discover’d itself not only in his Looks, but ail his Actions; and Olarius, whose tender Friendsiiip quickly caus’d him to perceive the alteration, with a Concern great as his Love, began to inquire into the Occasion. But Ly
fauder
J Shep R U D E.'
fander difguizing the truly anxious Pains of his despairing Love, feigns he is difeontented at his forlorn State, his vast unbounded Obligation to olarius, with being forced still to receive such unequal Favours, without a Hope to express his highly grateful Sense, by ought but Words. This makes Olarius think Am
*
bition disquiets him, that he is troubled with an emulous discontent for being placed so much beneath, in Birth and Fortune, the high Rank fie always oblig’d him to converse with : And, without hesitation, acquainting Count Claronr vitle with it, the Employment he heretofore mention’d to Emelia, was immediately got him. But how surprised are they both, to find, instead of this imagin’d Cure, his discontents arc so visibly increas’d, as to prey on his very Health! This made the Count, who valued lyfandevno less than Olarius, tho’ not So familiarly acquainted with him, resolve to take him into the Country with him, about the lame time that Emelia, with the beauteous cause of his Grief, and their Concern for ir, quits the Town. •
The inimitable Accomplissiments of that young Gentleman gain’d so great an ascendant on Claronville, that from esteeming, he grows passionately fond of him; nay, so transported is he, that he does nothing but talk of him to Olarius, wonders at the vast Stock of Learning in one So young, yet untouch’d with Pedantry > admires the Justness of his Notions, the soli r dity of his Judgement, with the pleasing vivar city, and Sprightly turns of his Wit. Hal said Claronville to Olarius, what an enchanting Manner he has, how graceful an Utterance,
  47
bow.modeft, yet how very forcible are hisrea ibnings in everything i How perfectly sine, how accomplissi’d a Gentleman does he appear! Oh I Olarius, cry d the transported Claronville, you are sit to breed a Son for the greatest Monarch the Globe contains!
But this Admiration still causing a nearer, a : enderer Concern for that inimitable Youth, le resolv’d to press him close, till he had earn’d the cause, and by that means a cer: ain Cure; And understanding he was then one into the Garden, either to amuse or indulge his discontent without Olarius, he fol ovvs the Lover, whom he found lying on a Bank deeply musing, and he hears not claron oille’s approach. He lean’d on his Arm, with lis Eyes fix’d to the Ground. The Count' fops, attentively viewing the Youth; when It last he perceives the furrowing Sighs break, brth, followed by these Expressions: Oh why, luft Heaven, have you given me Such ambi ious Desires, without being bless’d with one Hope towards obtaining them? ■
This convinces Claronville, that restless Ami? jition tortures the aspiring Youth, and his Partial Love attributes it to the greatness of lis Spirit. He immediately advances to take ssie disconsolate Lysander in his Arms, and strives to disperse his Grief with Such tender and Solemn alturances, that within a few days he ssiall feel no more uneasiness on ssie Score of Fortune; that tho’ Lysander wonders and thinks Such unheard of Generosity improbable, if not impossible, yet it So Sooths his Passion, that what he wissies he is willing believe : and thfi first mnmpnf he can rlric
48
engage from that admirable Friend, he writes to Emelia the pleasing Promises, as is afore msntion’d. Whilst Claronville ruminating in his careful Breast, how to settle an Affair of the greatest Consequence, determin’d to go to a more retir’d Seat of his, about twenty Miles up the River, only accompanied by Olarius, Lysander, a few Servants, and six Men to row the Barge, The pleasantness of the Season caused them rather to choose this Short Voyage, than travel by Land : They fet out late; and this being the Night which was to bring strange things to pass to the adoring Lysander, and the then diftress’d, almoft loft Bellamira; they had not gone far before their melodious Strains were interrupted by terrible Cries and loud Screams of persons that feem’d diftress’d : On which, the Music ceasing, they quickly perceived the out cries to come from a Velfel, which came sailing towards them. But how Surprised were they all, when more attentively listening and diftinguilhing ’em to be women’s Voices, Lysander like one distracted rising from his Seat, cries out, ’tis Bellamira I - — — — — ’tis Bellamira and Emc, lia! I am certain ’tis they. — - — And then drawing his Sword vith eagerness' ' to claronvilv on bent Knees, For heaven’s Sake, my Lord, if you have any pity for Virtue in distress, or would preserve zy fander from eternal Ruin, command the Barge
this moment to their relief, to Save more
Worth than the World contains besides And being more convinced, as the Sloop and their Cries drew nearer, he would stamp and
The r R u D E. 49
sky. That — - that is indeed Bellamira! Ha I now poor Emelia Screams! What shall I do? Instruct me. Heaven, to preserve them. And having obtain’d Claronville s consent, who naturally pitying the diftress’d, could not refuse his pressing Entreaties, turning to the Bargemen, he bids them to exert their Strength and Speed, promising to their swift haste. Rewards like a Monarch; charging them, as Soon as they had fix’d their Boat to the Velfel, for half the Men to follow him, whilst the others staying in the Barge, might reach them their Oars; by which means they could annoy the Enemy, and defend themselves from all but firearms.
But there needed none of that Care, for •deteftedly base Phomafo, and his wicked Crew, were so intent on Elifindas wickeder Command, that they did not mind the barge’s approach, till Lysander had closed it to the Sloop; who then, quick as Thought, catching hold of a Rope that belong’d to the Tackle Swung himself into the Velfel, where the sirft Object that presented itself to his view, was a villainous Russian dragging Emelia, by the Hair on the Deck. With one Leap, Lysander reaching to him, struck him across the Face with all his force, saying, Monster of Cruelty, behold thy Reward! On which the Fellow ftunn’d, let go his barbarous hold i whilst the count’s Men following thick, hinder the rest of the Russians from revenging their Companion; and Emelia looking on her Deliverer, whom knowing, ssie Said, Haste, generous Lysander, Sure Heaven has sent you to save beuamira. who else this momenr is Inst.
50 Am rrude. ^
undone, ruin’d by Ravishers. He no sooner heard that dear Name, but he isiew to the Cabin, and sinding the Door ssiut, his Rage adding unusual Force, with the Second Stroke of his Foot, he burst it open; where he found that innocent, terrified Lady on the Floor, with her Nails defending herself against: the brutal Phomafo, whom Lysander luade Sensible of his presumptuous Villainy, by running his Sword into his Breast: : then turning to the frighted beuamira, whom by raising from the Ground, he had the happiness to fold in his Arms, his extreme Joy was more exprefs’d by Actions than Words; and in those moments tenderly embracing her. Said, Am I So bless’d, So gloriously happy, to Save my heart’s dearest, only Love; together with the greatly valuable Emelia! — But scarce had the unfortunate Youth sinifti’d these Words, when one of the russian Crew flying from claron ville’s Men, then entering the Cabin, and feeing Phomafo welt’ring in his Blood, takes up lyfandeps too Soon quitted Sword, and stabs him in the Back. Emelia following the Fellow at the Door, Seeing the Stroke given, with a great Scream cry’d out, Lysander s ftabb’d! ij[/h»jer’s murder’d 1 The Words going thro’ the Sloop, quickly reach’d claronville’s and olarim’s Ears, who were till then in the Boat; but on this unhappy News, getting into the Vesiel, with beating Hearts make their Approaches to him; where the Count finds z.y fander wounded, and senselefs, between the two Ladies. Emelia tearing her Linen to stop his faft flowing Blood, endeavour’d by her Prayers to bribe Heaven to save him; and
Be/m
  5t
Bellamira, with streaming Tears, wissies ssie could, by letting out Sluices of her own Blood, stay his. — This Sad, and heart wounding Spectacle, filling Claronville with Rage and Grief, he Said, Unhappy Youth! what a Fate is this! to lose thy Life defending worthless Women in the company of Russians; - andi kneeling down to take, he thought, the dying Lysander in his Arms, said. Oh, m’y Child, my Son, mufti then lose my only Hope, my bel
•uille?.. Here the father’s Laments were
interrupted by Emelia, who' falling backwards, with a Shriek so loud and strong, as though her Soul had gone from her with her Words repeats. My Belville I The known, tho’ long absent Accent of her Voice,, struck Clarouvilld.$ Ears; and turning his Eyes on the Swdotiing Lady, if not in a moment, yet he fool dis^ cover’d there the Lineaments and every Feature of Emelia. What Skill can describe the Emotions of Claronville s or belville’s Heart 1 for they are the same at this time; despair for a dying Son, and Amazement to find a lun|^
lost W ife -- - — — at once Seizing his Soul, he
was motionless as a Statue, and folie remain’d a long Ipace, But, oh I as Soon as he can recover his Faculties, and Utterance, he flies to the fainting Emelia, td.k.qs her in his Arms with eagerness, saying, ’tis indeed my Emelia, my long ioft Lovel Then pressing her close to his throbbing Heart, he Said, Oh my
soul’s delight 1 revive bless thy Husband —
thy Belville with one kind Look- -- - —
finding her still fenfeless with Grief, and heart torn Agonies, he turns to his People, begging them to help her.
52r The  .
And, indeed, in this distracted Scene, the precious and dearly priz’d Life o Lysander had been lost, had not Olarius, with less confusion of Mind, bent all his Care to assift that lovely Youth; and one of my lord’s Gentlemen understanding Surgery, he was immediately remov’d out of the Cabin, to have his Wound search’d and drefs’d; the grieved Bellamira pursuing him with her drowned Eyes, whilst her unskill’d Care was employ’d in recovering Emelia.
But Olarius, thoroughly acquainted with the meaning of all this strange Perplexity and Astonishment, as Soon as lyjander’s Blood was ftaunch’d, and Life reviv’d, forbidding any.
made of what had pafs’d, took him into the Barge, intending with some of the Men to carry him back to the count’s House, that more skilful Surgeons might be had; charging the rest (who had secur’d the Villain with Cords) to follow with the Velfel atlome distance.
When the grieved Claronville, and the afflicted Bellamira, with all their Care, had a little recover’d Emelia; ssie, hearing the count’s passionate Expressions, sirft turnm her Eyes on him, but when ssie look’d on the bloody ground, and found Lysander gone, with a weak Voice, at the same time endeavouring to raise her feeble Limbs, ssie cry’d. where’s my Son? O let me go to him, and die by him! The Couct strove to comfort her with Some Hopes; told her he was only removed, to be preserv’d; but ssie minded him not. Groans, Sighs, and Sobs, hinder her from speaking a long time, when at last, with incoherent Words, ssie exprefs’d
 . 52
ber Anguissi, by Saying, Let me go to my Bel.. Oh, my Child, would I had died Jor chee 1 How hard, how barbarous is my Fate, to know his Worth, to know Lysander is my Child, only to be Sensible of exquisite misery in his loss. ” — Then continuing silent a few. Moments, as if by reflecting her Woes in: reas’d, ssie Said, renewing her distracted Talk,
[ am certain he is my Child, I know it by many Reasons. Then looking on Claronville, ssie Said, Cruel Belville, how has thy faithless [nconftancy, in a moment, deftroy’d thy Son and me! To which the passionate Husband hastily answer’d, My dear, and only Love, do not charge me with Crimes So very distant from my Nature; it’s true, I have wrong’d youj and have been basely wrong’d — yet by th Powers Divine I Swear, my faithful Heart has never ceas’d a moment to love you, nor has your long Absence caus’d one changing Thought. Ah 1 reply’d Emelia, could you convince me of this, I might still be happy, too happy for a Mortal; But no Such Blessings, purjuedjhe, are in store form— — are still to be my Portion — Millions of Tears thy Falssiood has cost me — and now they still must flow for my dear Son. — Too many, continued [he, I paid his imaginary Death, to be forced to weep them o’er again for my Lysander. I hope, jh/i Claronville, Heaven will be. more merciful to us both, — but my Falssiood was as imaginary as his Death; nor have my Sorrows been less than yours. Oh, Emelia! pursued he, when I have unfolded the black Scene of Treachery, that has made us both miserable, I am fuse you’ll^ity your wretched Hus
Kor>/^
5^4, The P R 0 0 E.
band, however your Heart is estranged from Love. I fedr, fd.td Emelia,, should you not be able to jusiiify yourself my fl^^rt would own its Weakness, and confess how friuch I still have lov’d, amidst Sufferings; and rather than think yoti could use me So very ill, believe anything., You heed not fear, continued he, embracing her,
, but without strain Q Fallacies I can clear myself.
We both were betray’d; the truth of which, on my Honour, you Soon 'shall be convinc’d of: But till then, rest Secure, and do not rob me of a moment’s Love, by an unedsy Doubt; our Joys being already too much perplex’d, in our Fears idr Lysander. t66, too much, said t.me lia; but whilst we, by an equal Sense of our Affliction, find some Relief in this Fellowssiip of misery, that Lady, continued she, (pointing to Bellamira, who when she was releas’d from her Care about Emelia, having Seated herself, by a Flood of Tears ikowed how Sensible ly fander^ shquvia had touch’d her very Soul) whose Grief for our Son is not less than ours, has none to confolate her: The dear absent Youth, in whom all her Joys and Happiness are lodg’d, perhaps this moment breathes his
stabbing Thought! — Sure Bellamira, purjued show cannot outlive it. I hope, anfwekd that a.ffldeied Lady, I Shall not; for the very fear of it has struck me with a most terrible Pain. A few moments Emelia forgot her own Grief, to moderate hers; and told Claronville how passionately Lysander lov’4 her, with how little less Tenderness ssie return’d it — extoll’d her woi'th, and at the same time lamented their generfi Misfortune in hi? Danger.
The r R u d £, 55
In which Sad Employment the time was spent, till they landed, which Olarius took care ssiould not be before Lysander was sirft carried to the count’s house; where, according to his expectations, this diftrefs’d Mother begg’d to Sec her Son; which he opposed by Entreaties, and too justly enforced reasons not to conquer her tenderly passionate Desires, he alturing ir: that nothing but composure could Save him, ■ that the least disorder’d pas sion, occasion’d either by Joy or Grief, would infallibly Set his Wound bleeding a fressi. This admirable Friend inform’d her. That as soon as he was recover’d, his sirft Question was to know if ssie and Bellamira were out of danger; and that having learn’d from him they were both under claronville’s Care, and doming with him to his House, that News So transported Lysander, that the Surgeon fear’d it would have been fatal. Judge then. Madam, said Olarius, whether the more delightful knowledge of your being his Mother, and by
that means the certainty of obtaining this ami' ' Ladyj whom I sind he passionately loves, will not raise in him a Joy too exquisite for him to support, and in a moment destroy what you and all of us So eagerly, so earnestly desire to save. Emelia yielding, waited with Bellamira, both tormented with a thousand heartbreaking Fears, to hear their Doom from the surgeon’s mouth. How do they tremble, and how do their Hearts throb, when he appears, before he tells them, the Wound indeed is very dangerous, but they hope not mortal, if right Care be taken I And how do their Hearts leap with Joy at the delightful
Words,
5<5 Shep R u D E.
Words, they hope mt mortal! Claronville\ Mind too is rejoic’d, and all his Thoughts are now employ’d on Love, aid his dear Emelia.
Care being taken to Secure the Villains in the outhouses, whom for Some reason they do not think fit to Send to prison; the Ladies, with Olarius, and the now happy Husband, by a Short Repast, having a little refressi’d their harass’d Spirits; the Count, desirous to Satisfy emelia*s Doubts, and complete the Happiness of sinding her, begins his Vindication in the following manner.
I must, my dear Emelia, said he, be forced to go back as far as my bringing you acquainted with Marimont; who dying, own’d that he being charm’d with your Beauty at the Play, began with me the Argument about Wit, believing your rare and exquisite Form had in ipir’d me with those favourable Sentiments I always had for your Sex. You know, pursued he, how his Wile prevail’d on my Weakness; and having thus obtain’d the happiness to converse with my Emelia, his Desires increas’d : And if Love could enter into aheartfo wicked. Surely you inspir’d him with the most violent one that could posiess the Soul of Man, tho’ at the Same time he found on your bare sufpect ing of it, that you with a Discretion and Virtue never enough to be extoll’d, ftiunn’d it and him, by refusing his Visits: Which convincing him there was no way to gain your Love but bythaking a Breach between us two, he at sirft try’d every artful Insinuation to poffess me with an ill Opinion of you, and thatlike w.ise proving ineffectual, he at length formed
  57
in his mischievous Brain a Scheme that accomplissi’d his cruel Purpose. Having by Bribes, gained on your Maid to steal the Key of youf Cabinet, by which means feeing all my Letters, he difcover’d the Cypher we intended ssiould be known to none but ourselves; which being what he wanted, (who, amongst other Ingenuities, could counterfeit any one’s Hand) he begins to put in practice his Design, by telling a Coxcomb I had a Mistress I was extremely fond and jealous of, and that it would make excellent Sport, if one Night he would tease me on that Subject; Which the unthink ‘ ing Fool giving in to, according to marimont’s direction, he sirft began to hint, and then express it, in So plain Terms, that sired with his insoience, I treated him in a manner that must have proved fatal to one of us, had not mari r mont pretended to interpose; who urged, though it was very weak in him to boast, yet before I ought to express Such a desperate Resentment, he would have me Sure Emelia was worthy of it, by Seeing whether you would come at his Appointment. The Spark, instructed by him, pretended a great Surprise at my doubting it, vow’d he thought you had been too free of your Favours to have them efteem’d Such, for to his certain knowledge, you frequently met gay fly at a house that was maintain’d by accommodating Such Sort of Lovers.
It Seems, said Claronville, that Marimoiu would not Suffer this Fool to See you; he being too Sensible of your beauty’s Power, fear’d it might influence him to unravel the Secret; and the Spark urging, he was Sure vou would
58 The P RUDE'.
\
See gay fly, with whom you were more intimate than himself, at last by his confident Af severation,; join’d with Marimonfs suspicious Manner, whom I .more relied on, I agreed, as they Said, to be convinced. This was the occasion, pursued the Count, of my coming home in such a strange Humour; and had I not been infatuated, certainly. wssiat you said on that occasion ought to have made me distrust all the World, rather than Emelia. I thought I had enough warned you of any Contrivance, by begging you on no occasion to go out that day j. which Marirnom learning from your Maid, he wrote that counterfeit Letter, which brought my Emelia to that abominable Place, and caused his barbarous Plot to Succeed. With how great a Horror was I Seized, when I Saw you fenter the house, and inquire for gay fly! I had that moment kill’d you, had they not with held me with all their force. Then, said Emelia, interrupting him., I was not deceiv’d, when I fancied I heard your Voice; you Saying, Let me go, for I this moment will stab her perfidious Heart. But I was So far from earing k, contintted/he, that I endeavour’d with all my strength to open the Door between us; when a Person coming, into the Room, desired me to walk upstairs, Saying, you would follow me. I know it all, purjuednhe Count, with your Treatment pf gay fly; who, ignorant of your very Name, was brought thither by a love letter Marimont writ him; and the Usage he met from you on that occasion, has often help’d to heighten their barbarous Mirth. But yoxkwere, said Claronville, pursuing his Discourse, no sooner removed from my sight, than I bei

  59
gan to think all that was past a terrifying Dream; and imagining some. Fiend had ta ken your Form to perplex and torture me, I ran like one distracted to your House;; mont following me, (tho’ ssis accompanying me was hid from you by the Maid, as he since told me.) Not but you, doubtless, heard in how wild a manner I behaved myself when I found you absent, my Rage being so great, that he wbuld not trust me for four days by myself. I then endeavour’d, by hard drinking, to drown my senses, and with ’em the tormenting Fangs your imagin’d Inconstancy had caused; that cruel Fiend owning, in those moments, he often repented his Villainy, but having enter’d, he must now go through with it. By me he was commission’d to visit you, and See in whar manner you would behave yourself, I then withdrew to my father’s, to try there, if possible, to compose my afflicted Mind; burwith what increase. was my Soul sill’d, when he came there to me, and inform’d me you were sofar from regretting what you had donoj or being concern’d at my.knowledge of it, that now with a harden’d Confidence, you permitted gay fly openly to visit you, whilst all your Words and Actions express’d a scornful Hatred of me? Sure, cried Erhelia, on hearing this, Marimont could not be Ib inhumanly base, for he and Heaven only were witness of what I fuffer’d; and certainly my Afflictions would have pierc’d a marble Heart: Words cannot express what my Sorrows were — nor Imagination Scarce form an Idea of them, I believe, answer’d Claronville, your Husband only could have an adequate Sense of what you fuffeivi,
6o P RD D E.
* A
by' the greatness of his own; who like the stricken Deer, ranging round the Countries, Sought every Diversion to Sooth the Pain : (but how ineffectual !>) it would not allow a' moment’s ease. HW often have I wilh’d you present, only to’revenge my exquisite Tortures, by murdering you I But certainly, in the midst of all these (as I thought) Confirmations ..of your Falsehood, powerful Love had brought me to you before you undertook that cruel Voyage, had not rny Mother fell sick; and her extreme Tenderness not Suftering her to part from me the few days of her remaining Life,
I was detain’d by her Death; and the Night the Ceremony of her Funeral was performed,
I received the Letter you sent me, of your fatal ■ departure. What Aftonissiment and Doubts did it sill me with! and how difterent was it from the Idea I then had of you! your Resentment being exprefs’d fb natural, with Such a self asiured Innocence, that I then began not to fear, but hope Some deceitful Artifice! But,
■ alas! what Satisfaction had I in that hope, when there was no. recovering you back! I came immediately on it to Town, and went directly to your House;; I flew to ma vimont with your Letter, who still carrying on his base Deceit, persuaded me you were only withdrawn with Some Spark into the Country. In which uncertainty I remain’d almost two Years, when one Night it happen’d, that being out late, I was forced to return home afoot, and the Moon giving a pleasant Light,
, J heard the elassiing of Swords, and distance Saw two Men engaged; when immediately one of them falling, I perceived the
tlwprjude. 6l
other making off ais fast as he coiild: and Humanity obliging me to go up to the wounded Person, I was very much surprised to find it Marimont; who knowing me, with a deep Sigh, Said, Belville, you are the only'person I ought to be afraid of : Seeing, in. this last moment of Life, yet I am glad Heaven .has given me this opportunity to clear they Innocent and to beg Forgiveness for a Crimeiwhichmy Conscience has more ssiarply reproach’d me with, than all my other Offences. Oh? which, said Ciaronville, be began to tell nie part or what I have already related; when his Agonies hindering him from proceeding, I got him removed to a house,. where his Wounds being found mortal, he had just Life enough to sinilh his Sad Tale, and signed his cqnfes sion, which I got writ by one present;; 'resolving, if ever I Should have the happiness of sinding you, by that means fully to convince you, by how base an Artifice I was drawn to wrong my dear Etnelia. ^
At these Words the Count taking out of a Cabinet the Paper, fhew’d it to Etnelia; riwho having view’d it, express’d her Satisfaction, to find, whatever her Suftbrings had been, it was not either owing to the Cruelty or Falfliood of her Belville. And he proceeding in his Relation, Said, Marimont ftiowed So sincere a Concern for having been the Author of all your Misfortunes, and painted your innocent Sufferings in such lively Terms, that tho’ my resentments were extreme, yet in those moments they were a little soften’d by Pity at his own Sense of Shame and Repentance; he informing me of all your Distractions, your 111-
6z Shep Ru LI E.
ness, and his unsuccessful Attempts, * and added, is he had known your design to leave the Kingdom, he would have prevented it, though with the confession of his Crime. But he Said, that happening to be a few days out of Town, he had not Intelligence from your Maid till the day of your departure; and then you prevented his having any suspicion of your Design, by telling him you only went for a little time into the Country, for the benefit of the Air. He pleaded theviolence of his Love, for the carrying on this long diflembled Villainy, adding, that to the last of your Stay, he had hopes that your Necessities in time would bring you to a compliance with his Desires. But, said Claronville, however wretched he has made us both. Heaven and your Virtue prevented his Mischiefs from being crown’d by Success;; he died in less than three hours after his Confession; and by it, left me the miferableft of Men living. I once thought the Tortures of jealousy too exquisite to be parallel’d; but here I found they were far surpass’d. How did I curse my too credulous easy Belief! As to my own Sufferings, (however great they were) I thought my Folly justly merited them. — But for you, my Soul daily felt Sorrows to think how many miseries your helpless Innocence must' Suffer for my inhuman Folly; — I
feared your destitute Fortune being insulted by those you went with, your enduring strange,
, Misfortunes in a foreign Country; to which was joined, with no Small anguissi of mind, what hard Sentiments you must have of me. Nor were you deceiv’d, answer d Emelia, Heaven knows the thoughts of your cruel
Shep R V 0 E. <sj
usage alone made me miserable; whilst Fortune was lavissi in beftowihg oti me her Favours. But, pursued the now fully convinc’d Emelia, you have So fully clear’d yourself, and So pathetically described your Sufferings, that I know not how to excuse my long Concealment; which, perhaps, added she, with Pears in her Eyes, may be Severely punissi’d by the loss of our Son, of whom you have yet made no mention. No, replied he, I forgot to acquaint you, that knowing how fondly you loved him, when I was enraged against you, I had him remov’d on purpose to torment you: Where, as Marimont Said, he did indeed sicken of the smallpox > Providence preferv’d him to be my only gonsolation, who, by your loss, was doubly dear to me. He was in his Infancy so very like you, that whilst I hugg’d the dearresemblance, it still brought back to my mind, the stabbing thoughts of your loss; tho’ I often wonder’d what you meant by that Passage in your Letter, where you with Hinging Reproaches complain of his death, till Marimont explain’d it; who said your Affection hung So much after him, that fearing it might be an occasion of our meeting hereafter, he told you he was dead. But, my dear Emelia, said Claronville, looking at the same time on Olarius, this admirable Friend, whom I sind you have forgot, though he join’d our Hands, knowing my Sad Story, and Supporting me with his Advice, ever since he was three years^old, undertook the care of educating our Belville, who from that time was call’d Lysander, I not thinking it proper to own him
till mv father’s death; and then a Letter I 0 ^,
6£ The P R tj D E.
receiv’d .Stem you, giving me .hopes I Should one time or other sind you, I delay’d it, and' join’d with the persuasion of o/^ri«r, who extremely charm’d with his extraordinary Inclination to Learning, Was afraid the knowledge of his Birth might make hiin grow indolent, and not mind what he might, perhaps, think
he ssiould not want.
* /
Here Claronville went on to inform Emelia of their late Concern for his Melancholy; with the Passage in the Garden between him. and - Lysander. On which that Lady smiling. Said,
ssie believ’d ssie could best explain the Meaning of those uneasy ambitious Desires : And then ssiowing Claronville the Letter ssie had that day received from Lysander, on reading it, the Father was Surprised, to find what Friendssiip this Mother and Son had contracted for each other; with the odd Chance, that wssiilft the Son was striving to plead his own Cause in Love, he ssiould So wonderfully enforce it: and looking on Emelia with Eyes that ex' prefs’d the pleased Satisfaction of his Soul, he said, Who that ever was bless’d with the Name of Parent, would not think all their Cares fully recompensed, to sind a Child have such noble. Such exalted Thoughts of theih, as Lysander here exprelfes! But, pursued the Father, it’s not the Name of Parent, or aii’ austere Assuming, that can gain our Children tb iefteem, love, and revere us; it must be, added he, by such fair Examples of Virtue, as those of my Emelia, join’d with Tenderness, and a generous Preference of their
Hap
  6$
happiness, to our own, by which that filial Love, and respectsul Friendship must be obtained, that So delightfully repays all our paternal Blessing, "i' ' indeed, pursued he, flattering myself I ssiould find lysander such, who in all his Words and Actions has express’d So grateful a Sense of olarius*s Friend ^ ssiip to him, together with the late sudden discontent that Seized him; I resolved no longer to continue the Concealment of his Birth from him: And fearing Some Difficulties would attend my owning him, from the next Succeeding Heirs to my Title, and Estate, I had determined to withdraw from the hurry of Visitors to a more private Sear; where I might with him consult on the easieft Methods of doing it; intending to acquaint him with all my Misfortunes, and your Loss. We had begun our little Voyage with this Design, when Heaven, propitious to Us; has wonderfully brought you to assift and complete, I hope, the happy Discovery.
Emelia, Seconded by Olarius and beuamira, implored Heaven to make it Such, by she preservation of Lysander; nor was claronville’s Eyes So faftend on Erkelia s still angel like Form, as not to pay a just regard to Bellamira*^ matchless Beauty : Her Birth, arid excellent Worth being told, knd dfescribed by Emelia^ the fond Father, on that occasion. Said a thousand obliging things, by which he ssiewed how much he not only Approved, but admired hiis son’s Choice. Nor did Emelia forget, in a most engaging iuanner, to express her Obligation to Olarius, for his extraordinary. friend ssiioi knd tender Care in the Education of
oo Mm r R U D E.
Lysander;; he answer’d with Congratulations on her and claronville’s Surprising meeting; nor did he omit agreeably to compliment Bellamira, as the entire occasion of lyfander*s> late Melancholy, with the Pain they had been in about it. But in spite of the Pleasure this happy Pair found in unfolding their Souls to each other, after so long an Absence, Nature, and their late surprising Fatigues, putting them in mind Rest was needful, Emelia was led by the Count to his Apartment j and by that means Bellamira alone by herself, pafs’d the restless Night, agitated with a thousand perplexing Fears for lyfander’s Life: tho’ at the same time she was charm’d with the thoughts, that now no Objection could be made against her yielding up her Heart entirely to the engaging Perfections of that enchanting Youth.
The next Morning all their Joys were increased, with the hopes the Surgeon gave them of Lyfandefs recovery. All their Thoughts were now turned on the Surprising manner of their being forced away, with what could induce the Villains to So bold an Attempt; yet how much greater was their Surprise, to nnd a Sister capable of such an inhuman Deed i when Olarius going wdth the Surgeons to See phomafo’s Wound drefs’d, he confess’d, in hopes of favour, Elijinda s whole Contrivance, with every particular Passage of their long Intrigue. With how much difficulty are they brought to believe it I till ihomafo gives them but too convincing Proofs of the Truth; and though the Ladies were silled with Horror on hearing the Relation, yet the count’s and Olarius*3 Aftonissiment was not much less, the
F ame
  6y
Fame of her imequal’d Piety having reach’d their Ears. Claronville detesting Such an hi human Wickedness, according to the Severity of his Principles, vow’d to make her a public Example; but Emelia., with reluctant Pity, fears the exposing may harden her in her Offences : and Olarius joining in her Opinion, he yielded to their persuasion and Bellamira s Tears, who feels a greater Shame for her abandon’d Sister, than that Lady could be sensible of, for all her monstrous Crimes.
Elijinda returning back (as ssie imagin’4) from the accornplissiment of her detestable Crime, with a pretended Concern alarms the whole Country with their loss;; Virtues causing hem generally to be lamented. But Bellgrand, and the enamour’d Stanorius, being shore Sensibly touch’d, especially the Lover, >vho at the Same time he i ftufying how to recover them, rages and vows Revenge on the Author; not being entirely free from fuspect jng the fair Dame herself. But ssie, with Arts superior, joining her counterfeit Grief to their real, pretends ssie had some Fears that they were carried away by their own consent i especially Emelia, whose readiness to follow Bellamira, ssie, by giving it another turn, caused them indeed to believe it; having insinuated, that ssie supposed Lysander was at the bottom of it. By which, with a thousand other invented Circumstances, ssie So fully poifess’d them, with that Opinion, as to make them resolve that very Night to go: in pursuit of Lysander and the Ladies.
But Marcander ^ Health having suffer’d tqp much bv his late discontent. to endure the
d8
fatigue of their Speedy Search, he staid, at his Request, with the Chevalier de Blanville, where he, and the lovely Lugenia, in each other find a Sovereign Remedy for their inconsolable Grief.
The Lover and the Brother, eager in their Search of the Ladies, reach’d the Town; and having learn’d from olarius*s Domestics, that Lysander was gone with him to the count’s, they determin’d to make that Nobleman a Visit, {stanorius and he being very well acquainted) to sind if Lysander is really wdth him, or had only order’d it to be given out, to dis guife his absence with the Ladies.
But how Surprised are they, and how confirmed in their Opinion, and Elifindcis feigned ■ Suspicion, when, on their making som^enquiry, they sind the Country People full of a confused Story, that a Velfel was Seized, and six Men brought bound to the count’s, with two Ladies, whose description exactly answer’d those they are in pursuit of! On which they did not much consult, before they went directly to the count’s, and asked for the Ladies by their Names.
Emelia, and her dear Claronville, were by themselves entertaining each other with past Transactions, when they were told of the gentlemen’s pressing to See her and the Count. On hearing their Names, Emelia immediately order’d them to be brought up, and receiv’d them with all the transports osjoy that Such a happy Delivery could occasion : Tho’, after the siril Ceremonies were over, perceiving by brillgrand’s Behaviour, his Suspicions, ssie began CO acquaint them with all that had past;; pressing her Sister to take, the Air on
.■u
The P R u D Ei 6^
the Water that Evening, and how ssie, to divert an unusual Melancholy, chose to accompany them j with their being feiz’d and dragg’d into the Velfel, and lock’d up in a little dirty Cabin, where (to prevent their Cries) their Mouths were flopp’d till it grew dark, and they had gone some Leagues down the River; and that then two ill looking Russians approaching with Lights, by their Behaviour, made them fear the worst Misfortune : She farther inform’d the Gentlemen, that being So much in the Villains power, ssie offer’d them very considerable Rewards, to release her and Bellamira; at the Same time intimating to them, what Punissiments they must expect, if they proceeded in their base Design : And how that Phomafo, a little startled, began to relent, till the Russian (that dragg’d or help’d her into the Vesiel after Bellamira^ and was the Person that ftabb’d Lyfandery plainly told her, he was too well acquainted with both their Circumstances, to part with either of them, till he and Phomafo became Masters of their Persons, and by that means of their Wealth. She then described what Danger they were in, till the happy moment Lysander came to their relief, and how fatal it Was like to have prov’d to him.
Claronville then taking up the Dissiourfe, told the Gentlemen, all the persons belonging to the Vesiel were under confinement, desiring them to hear from the Villains themselves the female Machiavellian that had contrived and fet those Wretches on to act in that manner. Which Words of the count’s not only recall’d to Stanorius^ mind, all his past suspicions of
yd Shep R u D £
'Elifinda, but polsess’d him with a thousand new ones : Tho’ had Bellgrand been a person of deeper Penetration, he had too Settled an Opinion of her Virtue, to have a Thought that way,
b\ix.atamrius, impatient to bef^itisfied in his Doubts, immediately accepting claronvilh’t offer to See Phomafi and the rest, with Olarius, they were passing through a Gallery to go to them, when an Accident happen’d tha& a Second time alarm’d them with terrible Fears for Lyfander’% Life : For Bellamira, who was fenlible siow much his happy Parents were pleased to enjoy a few hours undifturb’d in the dear Society of each other, often took occasion to leave them alone, and by it give a greater Loose to her own Thoughts and passion;; by her late Obligation to Lysander, join’d with the knowledge of his Birth, was increased to a height not to be described : In those Contemplations, how little does ssie fear her brother’s forcing her to marry Stanorius /. * and what a flood of Joy over power’d her Soul, when ssie heard he was out of danger 1 and how often did ssie bid the lazy Moments fly, to bring the happy one, in which ssie may call Lysander her own! and in what a Series of uninterrupted Delights,. does ssie
hope to pafs her days! -- -- -- - Not but these
charming Thoughts were often damp’d With intruding Doubts, that adverse Fortune may still raise Some unexpected liifficulty, to sever them : Nay, ssie often trembled with the thoughts, that he, perhaps, like his inconstant Sex, may change; and fear’d the knowledge of his Birth might cause him to cease that re
The P Kv D E. Jl
fpectful Tenderness which had made so strong in Impression on his Heart.
In these pleasing, and Sometimes perplexing rhoughts, as ssie was wandering thro’feveral a partments, ssie was at length infensibly led to svards lyfander’s, who had not yet been so ftess’d as to see her; though the Count and Olarius, by degrees, had taken care to encourage him with the hopes of obtaining that Lady; which did more than all the physici ins Art towards his Cure.
Bellamira sinding herself at his chamber loor, (which stood half open and perceiving all silent, ventures sirft to look in, and £eing no body in the Room, but the Curtains Irawn close, tho’ ssie trembled at the thought ds what ssie was doing, yet Love made her idvance, and often slopping to listen, ssie [bmetimes fancied ssie heard him breathe as if ifleep; but her Ears not continually keeping the Sound, ssie is immediately alarm’dwith the Frightful Thought, that perhaps he is dead. Long ssie could not bear it, e’er ssie gather’d ssie Courage to approach to his bedside, and gently putting by the Curtains, there beholds iiim lying on the Bed fast asleep. How delightful was this View to Bellamira! and how many new Charms does ssie discover in that en gagingyouth! His paleness calling to her mind her late extreme Obligations to him, sills her Soul with a thousand tender transports im describable. — But this fair Gazer was not long thus employ’d, e’er the Glare of Light, that struck full in his Face, by the moving of the Curtains, wakes him : which ssie perceiving, attempted to fly away, had not Lysander
ftopo’d
72;
flopp’d her, and by a thousand Entreaties prevailed on her to stay a few moments But tho’ ssie could not tell how to refuse his Request, so Suitable to her own Inclination, yet in Confusion often looking towards the Door, as if afraid of being catch’din her innocent Visit, ssie said, I owe Lysander too much, to refuse him Such a trifle as my Company, did I not fear Emelia ssiould know it, ssie would never forgive me. Which words Lysander taking in a sense as if that Lady was become his Enemy, said, (looking on her with a dejected Air) Then how deceitful are all Pretences of Friendssiip, since Emelia is So cruel as you represent! Or what inhuman Fiend, continued he, has so lately changed those favourable Sentiments ssie was pleased this very Morning to express for me : She then encourag’d me with Such glorious Hopes, as Monarchs might only desire to aspire to. Do not doubt, answer d Bellamira, perceiving his mistake, but Emelia esteems and loves you far beyond all that you can think or hope. Alas 1 replied he, still dejebed, how little will it avail, and how very miserable am I, if ssie refuses to assift me in the only thing that can cause me to entertain a Thought, a Wissi of Happiness?? not Sear, or talk of miseries, resumed she, for I dare warrant you. Fortune waits to bestow on you her Favours in So lavissi a manner, that I believe neither your Hopes, nor Wissies, can reach at a more extensive happiness than is ordain’d for Lysander. The Serious manner with which ssie deliver’d this, causing him to look on her with Amazement, ssie proceeded to Say, You would not question the truth of this, did you know

with what difficulty I restrain from telling you things that would make your Wonder great as your Joy; but then, purfuedbeware of being too ambitious, and remember Bellamira only efteem’d Lysander for his Virtues. — ■ The Blussies accompanying her Words, making the transported Lover to judge them still more to his advantage, throwing himself at her Feet, he said. Divinely excellent Bellamira, do not imagine I ever entertain’d an ambitiousthought but where you were concern’d : No, added he, the Powers above are my witness, that all my Hopes and exrtavagant Desires are center’d in you alone : — I could wissi, I had the command of Empires, to convince you how much I prize you above them; and if I am so bless’d, to obtain your Esteem, I ssiall think myself far happier than the greatest Monarch the Earth contains. In a few days, Bellamira, (at the same time obliging him to risej I ssiall see how Lysander esteems me, and ssiall be convinc’d whether you’ll prefer me to those whose Merit, perhaps, as well as Fortunes, are extremely superior to mine. But the passionate Lover answering her with Protestations that exprefs’d the Sincerity of his Passion, her Doubts were Satisfied; and now believing how infinitely he loves, which increasing her tenderness, ssie is unable longer to contain the fatal Secret: and looking on him with Eyes that ' ssiow’d how much ssie participated in his Happiness, ssie Said, Methinks, Lysander, I am too much indebted to you, not to wissi to be the person that ssiould tell you the delightful News that Emelia is your Mother. — — On which the aftonissi’d Youth often repeating Emelia,
74
Emelia my Mother I without being able to utter
more -- -- -- -- Yes, said Bellamira, pursuing het
Discourse, Ihe difcover’d you for her Son, when you lay wounded in the Vesiel; and had you then, added she, been Sensible, or could have seen her extreme Grief, how she wrung her Hands, and how fast the Tears flowed, you must have own’d So great. So uncommon a Concern could have proceeded from nothing
less than maternal tenderness. -- -- -- -- - Oh,
Heavens! cry’d Lysander( ( what Ihe Said, beginning to believe it) is it possible that the
excellent Emelia ssiould be my Mother! -- -- --
Oh! give me leave, added he, transported beyond himself, give me leave, my soul’s Joy, to throw myself at her Feet, and hear the confirmation.
Emelia and the Gentlemen happening just then to pafs by the Chamber to go to Phomafo, he staid not for Bellamirds refusing or granting his Request, but immediately running to Emeiia, and kneeling at her Feet, he Said, If I am your Son, give me leave thus to pay my Duty— — “somewhat aftonissi’d,
Emelia throwing her Arms about his Neck, said. Yes, Lysander, you are my Son— — — Child— — did she hold him in her Arms; the excess of both their Joys Suppressing Speech, vented itself in a Flood of Tears. The Count looking on them with the same transported Delight, waited, as Soon as Emelia had released him, to receive him in his Arms: When the Youth first broke the silence; Is then the generous Emelia my Mother? Am
1 So bless’d: -- -- Oh! how excellently kind
Wcte you ever to me 1 and how did my Soul
  75
revere you, though ignorant of the Cause?? how, answer’d she, are all those bitter Tears recompensed, which I ssied for your imagin’d Death, to find my dear, my only Child, the valuable Lysander!! — But, pursued Emelia, (having a little recover’d herself, and sirft looking on Claronville, and then on Lysander) you are my Child, and as the greatest Blessing a Mother can bestow, I here present to you a Father, whose Worth you are too well acquainted with, not to make your Happiness complete. — — — Claronville at the same time open’d his Arms to receive him. But the Youth being too much over power’d by this additional Blessing, only said. My Lord, r my Lord 1 — and fell in a Swoon at his feet.y. — On which, all their exquisite Joy, in a moment, is turned into dreadful Fears; his distracted Parents immediately had him conveym back to his Bed; nor was Bellamira less grieved, being present at all that pafs’d; and fcnsibly touch’d with her indiscreet Discovery, by her paleness and trembling ssiows a deeper Concern than
any Sorrow could express- -- -- -- --
Stanorius observing, together with the knowledge of lyfander’s Birth, he is silled with Despair— — ' - though he loved his
pleasures, and was no strict pbferver of Morals, yet there was a Generosity in his Temper, that caus’d him to be sensibly touch’d with this Scene pf paternal Love; and tho’ his Rival, the Virtues of his Parents, and the Accomplissiments of that Youth, made him interest himself in his Recovery; which was
L ^ So
I
7<5 Prudev
So long before they attain’d the hope of, that Despair began to spread through the Company.
who preserved his Temper, when he saw him wounded, now giving him for lost, deplores the Misfortune, with bitter Invectives against the Person that had So unadvisedly acquainted him with it; which sticks so deep to beuamira % Heart, that she Swoons away; in which condition she is carried to her Chamber before Lysander is recoverm, whom they are forced to bleed, (tho’so lately wounded) e’er any signs of Life appear. rr — But as soon as his senses are a little return’d, Olarius and his Parents are forced to entreat, and beg he would moderate his Joy, which was too extreme to be contain’d within bounds; he, with a thousand Protestations, altering the, Count his Father, he would endeavour to make himself worthy of the Honour, (since he was his Son;) nor did he omit, by a thousand grateful Expressions, to affure Olarius, he should still esteem him as a Father. To Emelia he said a thousand tender things of his past, regardful Love, and Admiration of her Virtues, and how secure a Confidence he always had in her Friendihip. Nor did he forget, amidst these filial Endearments, to put her in mind, his soul’s Happiness was center’d in Bellamira, which he now hoped her Interest in Claronvilfi, and that Family, may prevail on each to gain him that lovely Lady. And at the Same time looking on Bellgrand, he Said, he now had hopes they would not reject him with scorn, on the score of his Birth. On which that Gentleman took occasion to intimate
^ A A
Ftie   77
timate to those next him, what Symptoms he had always observ’d in lyfandeps Behaviour and Manner, of a person of Quality.
But the violent Emotions and transports of his Soul, having So disorder’d Lysander, that the Physicians fear’d a Fever might ensue, the Company withdrew, and left him to Rest : Where, after some discourse on this Accident, by which means Belgrand and Stanorius heard most that had happen’d at the meeting of cla vmville, and his dear Emelia, they both went with him to See Phomafo; who fully repeating all he before had confess’d of its being elifindd.s Contrivance, with their long Intimacy, Stanorius is fliock’d, tho’ he too well knew her, to doubt the truth. But Belgrand, who really lov’d and efteem’d her for her admirable Virtues, in spite of the Probability, cannot entertain a Thought of what he heard, and rather suspected it to be an artisicial Combination to blast her untainted Same; nor did he Spare to express his Doubts in Terms that certainly had occasion’d a Quarrel between him and the Count, had not Stanorius put an end to it, by thinking on a Way either infallibly to clear her Innocence, or more plainly convince her Brother of her Guilt. To which they both yielding, Stanorius obliged Thomafo to write to Elifinda a Letter, wherein he tells her. That his Companions proving treacherous to him, they had forc’d him aftiore, almost wounded to death, whilst they were fled out of the Kingdom with their rich Prize; and at the Same time complaining of his destitute Condition, |: else her, he was obliged to send this to intreac
fier Relief, and desire to know her further
i V; I
7§
Commands; believing he might confide in the Bearer, who had been very kind to him in that deplorable Circumstance.
Stanorius took care to have this Letter sent by a Servant of his, whom Elifinda was unacquainted with, and in whose Integrity he could confide : And after some Instructions, he was difpatch’d away that very Night, that he and Belgrand might the sooner be Satisfied by the manner of her Answer.
In the mean time, they accepted Claronville s Invitation to stay at his House, till the return of the Melfenger: The different Cares that per? plex’d each, made the Time tediously pafs a way, especially the uneasy Brother, and the despairing Stanorius, who plainly discover’d Bella > mircls violent Passion by her extreme Grief; which, together with the knowledge of lyfander’s Birth, and the Temper of Claronville, made him believe it impossible now to obtain her : Nor did he question but belgrand’s Ambition would soon incline him to consent— — ’ finding Resiftance would be in vain, he begins to reflect how little Happiness could be expected in a Wife, whose Heart is another’s; all which joining together, tho’ the Struggle is severe, Reason at last gains the Victory, and he resolves, as soon as the Melfenger returns from Elifinda, to free that noble Family from all Perplexities, by generously resigning her to Lysander.
But if Stanorius endur’d many Tortures in endeavouring to free himself from the Charms of Bellamira, that Lady was a thousand times more tormented, when fly was recover’d from her faintness, and began to reflect on the mis
The  .' 79
chief ssie had occasion’d. Olarius*& Reproaches (though he was ignorant of the fair Offender) made her think herself guilty of a Crime unpardonable : With what Horror was ssie feiz’d, on the bare Fear that it might prove fatal to Lysander!! could not ssipport it, and had abandon’d herself to the most violent Grief; wh.ex\emelia came into theroom, and sinding her So extremely disconsolate, that admirable Lady embracing her with tenderness. Said, My dear. Child, let me dry your Tears with the pleasing News that Lysander is reviv’d, and will, I hope, live to recompense this dear Concern for him. -- -- -- -- — - To which that amiable
Lady reply’d, still in Tears, Tho’ I interest myself in everything that contributes to yours, or lyfander*s happiness, yet, alas'! what hopes have I? My cruel Brother is come, and will insift on my marrying Stanorius; and perhaps, when he finds me relolv’d against it, will refuse me my Fortune; and can I then expect or think the Count will be so indulgent to his son’s Passion (ssiould Lysander still esteem me) as to accept me without one? Emelia Smiling at her Fears, told her, ssie need not be in any Perplexity on that score, for ssie was too well acquainted with c/<3ro; z^'^7/^'’s Mind, not to be sensible that he would not suffer her to be any other’s but Lysander s; who, said Emelia, I as sure you, already esteems you as a Child, and has often Said, he thought it no Small addition to the happiness of finding me, that Heaven ssiould appoint the Education of lyfander’s Wife to my care. By which obliging dis course, Emelia having freed that lovely Lady
from every uneasy Fear, ssie then own’d all
8o
that had pass’d between her and Lysander, and how Ihe acquainted him with the pleasing News of his Birth, being envious that any one’ elfe Should have the Happiness to inform him. of it.
But the next morning early, the impatient Emelia going to see her Son, found him extremely disorder’d for want of Rest; the violent Emotions of the Mind, occasion’d by his extravagant Joy, too often proving as prejudicial as those of extreme Grief. And tho’ Olarius, who had never ftirr’d from his Bedside, had inform’d him of most that heretofore has been mention’d concerning his Parents, yet he prevails on Emelia again to acquaint him with Several Palfages, particularly those in which Bellamira was concern’d: and that fond Mother neither conceals from him that lady’s equal Passion for him, elijinda’s Contrivance, nor stamrius’s being his Rival; and closing her discourse wih Alfurances, that neither the Brother nor Lover ssiould hinder his obtaining the enchanting Bellamira; and to consirm her Promises, ssie alfures him the Count his father’s resolutions are the same. This had so great an effect on Lysander, that his Joys thus complete, the restless Agitations of his Mind ceasing, and Sleep that had been long absent, now bringing her balmy Assiftance to his aid, confines him in her refressiing bands. When he waked, he finds himself almost perfectly recover’d; which as Soon as Emelia is inform’d of, ssie taking beuamira with her, goes to him; But I ssiall not pretend to describe the delightful Conversation that pass’d between the happy Mothers, and the no less happy Lovers, who.
The Prube. Si
doubtless, thought they were too Soon interrupted by Claronville, who brought with him Belgrand and Stamrms : And those Gentlemen, in very obliging Terms, congratulating Lysander on the happy turn in his Fortune, with the other Incidents that had happen’d, which he answering with Expressions equally complai sant, abundance of agreeable, gallant things were said on all sides. When stanorius*s Man brought back an Answer from Elijinda, which being given to her Brother to open and read, he scarce look’d it over, but in a rage he flung it on the ground with violent Invectives, not only against Elifinda, but the whole Sex, accusing them all of Deceit, Hypocrisy, and Impudence. In the meanwhile, Stanorius took the
Letter, and read tsiefe Words;
Elisinda ^othomaso.
Dear Thom alb,
Vince you have escaped, and are like to do well,
• 1 am not much grieved at what has happen’d j
a gaol lvind to them! or rather, may angry Waves and pempejluous Storms combine to Jink them in
the Deep- -- -- -- -- -/ sent you as much
Money as I believe you’ll want, till you are recover’d; then cone to me: tho’ for fear you should be known by the Servants, I would have you send the Person novo entrusted to fetch a Key of the Garden, where my dear thomaso shall find his Maranda, and be convinced no Delights are to her equal to that of folding him in her Arms. Tours,
MARANDA.
Part TTT. Or
Sj;, The P R tj DE;
Or any body’s elfe, cry’d Stanorius, fwheiii he read the Letter:) But it’s impossible to represent all that was. Said against that abandon’d Lady on that occasion. Stamrms, perhaps, %
little piqued at discovering So despicable a Rival, resolving to be reveng’d, more inflames tier Brother against her, by acquainting him, he was not ignorant of other Practises of the same nature : nor did Lysander Spare to inform the Company of the Adventure of the mafque rade, which incensed Belgrand to So high a. degree, that with a Rage he vows her Death? And, alas! how Soon will that unhappy Lady pay too dearly for her mean Pleasures! and how little will her hypocrisy avail, to Screen her from the all feeing Judge! Her cruel Envy, and implacable Revenge, join’d to her other Crimes, has already condemmd her; and who can See her very Lovers, the partakers of her past Pleasures, now become the Instruments of her Destruction, without trembling at Divine Anger? For the unpitying Stanmus having persuaded them, that nothing but the confronting her to her Face, can make her own her Guilt, and lay aside her long worn Hypocrisies, he contrived that ihomafo, who in a few days was recover’d enough to undertake Such a Journey, ssiould meet her jn the Garden, as ssie had directed; whilst her Brother, with the rest, ssiould be planted in Places to hear ^11 that pass’d between ’em. And accordingly stanorlus’s Man, being sirft Sent to fetch the Key of the Garden, and all this Company setting out with Phomajo, sly design rcsojving not t0 arrive a.temelid.% till it was dark: and
1 ^ i
then Lysander with the Ladies sirft enter d the
I ro
The r R V 0 fe
Garden. — -- -- -- -- The Gentlemen Surrounding
Phomajoy follow him till they per**’ ceived from a summer houle, a Light that easily tvcesttmthomafo'tdelifinda: who throwing her Arms about his Neck, received and welcom’d him with a thousand ftisiing Kisses, and the kindest Expressions of Love and Joy But fatal would they have proved to aho majoy had not that Company prevented a still • Design, if any can be, beyond that ssie practised on her innocent Sister; who, as soon as they Saw the endearing Welcome ssie gave him, wanting no farther Proof to confound her, they all immediately enter’d upon
her at several Doors. — -- - Belgrand was the
sirft that spoke to her, whose resentment ani Anger was so extreme, that Olarius and Lysander were forced to step between the incensed Brother, and that guilty Lady, for fear he ssiould do her some fatal Mischief— — • that could be said on her ssiamelefs Vices, her pretended Piety, and alfuming Virtues,
whilst her blacker Heart was practising
unheard of Crimes, was utter’d by the enraged Belgrand on this cccasion.* — — Nor did Stanorius forget to reproach her with bis Rival info contemptuous.a manner,; asalone was enough to drive her mad. Lysander too, let her understand, he was afraid, this Discovery would vex her worse, than his disappointing her at the Masquerade. Nothing could equal the Severity of their Reproaches, and
Ridicule, -- -- -- tho’ the Ladies and Otarius,
in suspense between Anger and Pity, stood dumb. — Whilst without Speaking, c^ft
m2 an
6 4 The prttdfi.
on each a wild furious Look. -- -- - And indeed,
her haughty Soul being posiefs’d with jdefpair to sind to sind herself disappointed
in her Design : Unable to support it, ssie [immediately (from a Table, on which there stood a Deliert with Wine prepar’d for Phomafo) pour’d into a Glass a large Draught, which drinking down, ssie Said to them with Fury, I am now past insults; and then with a violence breaking from them, ssie went directly to her Chamber. But her words amazing them all, they began to examine the Bottle from whence me took it; and sinding the Wine in it of a darker Colour, and infinitely thicker than the rest, they began to fear ssie had done herself some desperate mischieff tho’ they could not guess on what occasion So deadly a Potion ssiould be mix’d with the rest of the ' Wine.
But, alas! they were too soon inform’d; for that cruel vvoman believing what pho mafo had wrote her, determin’d to silence him for ever with a Dole of Opiate; imagining (as ssie afterwards own’d) that when ssie was free from him, if the Ladies by any means ssiould be found, they could not charge, or Sufpect her; telling them, ssie design’d, after ssie had given it to Phomafoy first to get her Letter from him, and then send him away, e’er it had cast him into an eternal Sleep.
Their Suspicion of what ssie had done, soon made all the Company follow her to her Chamber, the Door of which they were forced to break open, before they could enter : which so exasperated that desperate Woman, that now, in the most abandon’d Language, ssie falls on
them
  05
them, and ridicules their Simplicity, in reproaching her Actions, telling them they are all Such, tho’ yet undiscover’d, or elfe insipid Idiots; adding, if they had that Compassion and Humanity they pretended to, the only Favour they now could do her, was to leave
her undifturb’d. -- But I know, continued
fhcy with Fury in her Looks, you are come to preach Repentance, and beg me with unfeign ednefs to take care of my Soul: but I, purjued Jhe, disdaining such Nonsense, ssiall disappoint you, who always acted according to my Opinion. — Many horrid Blasphemies ssie then utter’d, unfit to be repeated; till at last, Olarius persuading the rest to leave her, began to discourfe her, and urg’d her Repentance in So. pathetic a manner, mixing his Reproaches with So much gentleness, and So tender a Concern for her future happiness, that though at sirft ssie seem’d not to heed him, but reftlefty toss, and turn about, raging like one mad; that excellent man’s Diligence, at last brought her to a sense of her Crimes, with the horrid Reflection, how soon ssie was going to answer, where there was no Reprieve, that ssie began to have a Sense of them, and with bitter Tears and Sorrows, to lament all ssie had done. Then owning the Poison ssie had drank ssie design’d for Thomafo, how did ssie wissi for Life in those moments, to repent and expiate her past Offences, by real Examples of Virtue, Piety, and Charity? — Which, alas! was now in vain, — her generous Friends, when they knew of what ssie had done, no Care nor Medicine was wanting; which at sirft ssie Sullenly
^6 The P R u ^ E.
lenly refusing, sat last came too late to expel the Poison that had reach’d her Brain.
Emelia and the rest took care, as much as possible, to conceal her black Story, and the manner ofherdeath, from the world. Her Fortune fell equally between and her Brother, who
bad her buried privately; and Stanijfa, who was difcover’d by her to have been her consi dunt in her Adventures, was immediately discarded from their Friendssiip or Acquaintance. — As for the rest of the Villains, they were difcharg’d without any Punissiment; tho’ indeed Phomafo, not caring to trust to their mercy, took the opportunity of their Surprise about Elijinda in the Garden, to escape away.
But whatever Confusion that Family might be in concerning Elijinda, yet the Respect all the neighbouring Gentry had iov Emelia and Bellamira, could not prevent their being visited and congratulated on their Delivery, and the other happy Events. Amongst the rest, were the Chevalier deblanville and his fair Daughter, with Marcander, Who in this time had prevail’d on the lovely Widow, to join with him in Wedlock.
And Stanorius having, by an obliging Resignation of put the happy Lover out
of all pain, Olarius join’d their Hands. Nor were thrir Parents less happy than themselves; Emelia s long Sufferings being fully recompensed by glaronvtlle’s tender Love; who daily made her sensible, how much he regretted his too credulous Belief, andvassi jealousy, whilst the Perfections oi Lysander, and the fair Bellamira, made them the happiest of Parents : The Unity, and the regardful Duty with which
rv
  87
Lysander return’d their Tenderness, made them the Admiration of all that knew thena. That excellent youth’s grateful Behaviour to Olarius^ so charm’d that Prelate, that at his Death he left Lysander an Estate So considerable, that it feem’d as if propitious Fortune was pleas’d to be auspicious to them.
FINIS.
m
\
0
T - ■■; ■^ ' A S -- Vi.... - ... ii.. -, '. " ■^ ■
: ■ ■ '■" \ f V •> ■ •- •■ C '■ ’’ -; ' "• •''>; .■ '' •' ’ •■ * ■'''^
• •' ■ ‘tk^ *.; - W ............•, 1^
: '' "■■■■ V ■' i, > •'
1-5*; > w ' •; • ' V
-. - ■ -.,.. * ■■ ■ - 'A *ry ' f.
, 1...,; .n‘ •• ^. '■'-
» ' •* .... •»‘. -. '
■. '.. ' ■ T, •■ : ^ ■
- ^ -. : - •> - ' ■
. .r^sj) ■ - ■' -- - ■■->■■.'' ■ *
^ r.. •*»-■■ ■ '■• -.; t ' '
'C Tte - .* b • • - C ■ • ^ - ■
s ■''', * ' ^ ^ ‘
^ ■ .vc ■ ', cl;;, -■
i' S .'^ ^ ■: _ _; ■ ■'
^ ■■; ^-'^ ' ■. N..
•, -.,.;, V ■,? v' ' " _, : ' : • '.
• »; • •. • ■ „.
'■ -' :.. ' ' ' ” "'
'■ "T' ' ■' ' ^ ■;.
■ «' • • •,
. •. ■ '•- ■ T ■ ■ ■
. *■’» • *0* '~ ‘ * ^ •
’NN..
c: : -- '
■-■■ •%
N •- •; •. - • r. criif.
... - ...... ■.. - — ■ •^a'v. V.
-. » / : •
.. V ^ *
'*- • .: ' • ••'^. • • •
V .‘ctr.. - _■
TA ‘.-, '. ‘C: - 0 ■ ‘T
\ '. A. '' -.
_ ■ ■. » .... '.. : ■•*•; •.: ^'- a
,. V - ■ivr'.vc --
^ ^ ssos'vv'csvx. V --
^ ■ '-: TT: -', A -■
'S 'is V ' ■ ' TT
... V ■ ". - •;. - ... - '.
• ■ ■ V : • ^ L: ■-.-: • ■ ■- -; -
'> ' .^.- Ar arvmfvv. ^
>>' ■/. '. h ' ..I
* '., .-■ ^
*. * ^ •. --
• ' - • -.. ■ '
*” * -".*
^ ■■. - ' -
-■ ■■ ■■" ■ ■-" ■ ' C '
., - ■; - ■ - -- NV
'.' - • •-.^ --.. ' ..iv.. ‘, -.. .•.
: .:.. ... " ' i, .-, -
- -
r.l; ' ■'■■■- ■■■...
, '. >•_. •-;
\.aa \ff'^y ' ■ ■ * A.
‘ P llss'] '- ' — .'C” ” .'. ' ' -
'' — ■C CV vos
f'a'dlkr.^. 1 -- ■■V
NC_.VA c _ _. ■ ■ _;..; - ■ -
'.S • •, '
'' ■ ' " ■■ -.,
V -.
- ... •. h ‘ " ■ - :
r.‘ ~
••' - *, ■' ■ * • .* •
.’ ff ' *• *..
. ...
?NT ‘ f
S *. -/ • K
•. •
'N ' ' “^ •. #
%
N
>
>
%
t
fri

ri
\
%
I
V
»
»
V
S
m
/ - •
y
1
♦
4
I
0
%
- ■ ■ NA ■
• - fc
. ' ^ -, r
ri
f •. ^
*. ^ f. C '*, ■
■ .: ■■ VT' ' ■ '■ '
% '
\ « • ■. ■
• » *.,
>•
^ fc
* X.
? ■; .j T' 7
• \ J •. -• .•»■••■•’- y —
V Wr;; -- -- C. - ' - ■
'ava.asli. 'VA.P;. r V.. w. ^ :
■• ..■■■■^...^ \^'* .•.<., <■ .V.,., - *- -. ■ .'
3.■'• r vp: '-.
■, L :, L -- y ‘ ■■. _
■ ■-, C -- -
L- -- >> ■ '■ ■ ■': k' cirv'» '^-• ca, .•.., ■•-
^ S
vn.'/n
■. .drc • -, ^
•. ■ tinom.
'L ii'g
VN'V A": ": ■■' ■■- -: -- ''
■ ■■ “VP: ■■/•... •■
-, vl L Wi
\ 'r. I S
N * X
« *'.*•* *» ^
• * * '.
'• >' ‘ ‘
'“S “.
•. * * r ♦.
■ ‘’''T.
I ’ ■ ' ■.
P t,
^ " ' * * »
•* »*’«
\
• •
«
'•.. i
%
$
t ' \
/
0
A.
* ^
Tc • *'
#
*
• •
•»
y
♦
/
I
0
♦
» I ' V ’
0 s, * «,
• • ‘ ^.
L
\ '' - •
1
1
* «
•A
Vt • -.
/

\
• * ».
• #.
, k
;
^ N \
i
’# „ I
'P'''SS '^, ^
'■' "O ^ tri
..\ P
■<.; -- *e'.»tr. -...
^^■\. ■' ^
N ■ '^ ■■
I
M ^, 1
^- ' 1^ ' f
ri ri -,. " i
■ .p,, - " a ^h K
b^h
il
* ’’^D
