1 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
THE
GODFREY F. SINGER MEMORIAL PRESENTED BY
MR. AND MRS. JAOOB SINGER \
•.. -
THE
S C H O O T
9
9
FOR
H U S B A N D S. •
4
WRITTEN BY A LADY.
I
V '*^1%** '^*^*%** **#•** ^»4******%«** *^*»»** ^•****^*4»%*^**4»** k **4*'* i *•*»•* *'•%*»• ••4*** •♦^I*** *»^4*'* '*0'* •’*%►*' '^*’1
The Fable of this Piece is admirably well calculated to check the fashionable Vice of keeping Mistrestes, by Setting in the strongest Light many Inconveniences of which that Practice is productive. — The Distrestes of Dafliwood, the Hero of this Piece, owing to his Connexion with amiss Bellers previous to his Marriage, are such as render him an Object of Pity. The Contrast between the Behaviour of his Mistress, who causes these ©istrefles, and that of his Wife, who aims only at removing them, affords an excellent lesbn in favour of Conjugal Engagements.”
critical Reviiw, January 1773, ^
^ THE %
school I
1 FOR I
(HUSBAND S. I
WRITTEN BY A LADY. I
IN TWO VOLUMES. |
^ VOL. I. ^
V V
- - A
. 4VJ fl
W jjje^w ^ I
w j^ I
;!
D U B L I Nr
Frinted foi S. Pr i C e, W. Wh rtbstone, W. watsow^,. 8 J. Sheppard, D. Chamberlaine, W. Sleater, I J. pott B. Corcoran, R. Cross, J. Williams, |
wccolles, J. hoey, T, Wilkinson, W. Gilbert,,
E Cross, T. Armitaoe, C Jenk in, T, Walker,
R. Moncriefpe, R. Stewart, W, Spotswood: ^.
G. Bonham, H. Burrqwes, F. Smith, M. Mills, |
g P. Higly, J. Hillary, J: Bxsh aw, J. Mehain,
2. J. Beatty, C Talbot, nd S colbjirti I
^, M.DCC.LXXYP^ - I
cos - / ’ •'^*';, ' '-. L

a -
^ THE
cob ca
S C H O O L
FOR
HUSBANDS.
«
LETTER L
V
The Honourable ' Edward Dashwood t
Sir Francis Mostyn, Bart.,
I AM in the greatest agitation, in the greated hurry of Spirits to be conceived, having this moment received a letter from my father, in which he desires me to come down immediately to Bud
*
worth place, that he may introduce me to Sir Robert Grafton. Sir Robert, it Seems, has agreed with my lord to let me chuse either of his daughters, His lordship tells me that as they are both ^ fine women, and have large fortunes, I cannot pcf • % sibly have any objection to one of them. I have not yet Seen themthey may be very Sine wo p men perhaps; but there is, you well know, a con
^ obslacle on my Side; and I may venture to ri call it an insuperable one, as it cannot, I doubt bs
got over with honour — I mean with regard to the lady I am to many. I have refused sooften, how g: ever, and my finances are in sodeclining a State,. that I fear I mud comply. — Could 1 but persuade
^ o
[ 4 J \
Die to give me up! — And yet, I mud own, I know not how to rcsign her, — What a load of anxiety has that attachment brought upon me! — I have hitherto been rendered, either frtra her attractions, cr my own weakness, unable to part with her. — Whenever I drop the Slighted hint concerning a Separation, She falls into Such fits of despair, and bursts into Such floods of tears, that my heart, too full of sensibility, is So exquisitely pained, that I cannot see her distrefs without being melted. On those occasions She absolutely unmans me. Were I conscious of being her first seducer, 1 Should think myself extremely blameable in deserting her; but I was not the firsti Mofiyn — though 1 firmly believe
^ J G ^
that She has been very faithful to me ever Since the connexion between us; yet that connexion has proved So extreme expensive to me, that I cannot answer her demands any longer, unless ray father increases my allowance; an indulgence he will, I am afraid, never think of, except I marry a woman of fortune; and, indeed, I am not to be told that he can ill afford to make over any part of his estate to me, it being far too small for the Support of his title; but Small as his estate is, he would, I dare lay, put himself to feme inconvenience, rather than not have me fettled advantageously, as he calls it.
Thus vou see, mostvn, how unfortunately I am Situated. Call on me tomorrow, if only for half an hour, and give me your advice hov/ to ain an affair which requires, you will, I believe, allow, a great deal of deliberation,
w
L E TV
[si
/
LETTER II
From the same to the same.
5difpatch this immediately, to prevent your com iiig to town on my account, as I mud: leave London dire^ily, in consequence of a Second letter from my father, who insists upon my Setting out poji^ as he has heard that Sir Robert has received another offer, Superior in point of fortune, and as he is willing that I Should have my choice. His lordship, indeed tells me, that he Shall remain in a neutral State on the occasion; but I think I can see his partiality towards the eldesl of the ladies, from what he says about them. He has Sent me a pretty copious defeription of them, which I Shall not transcribe. You Shall have my opinion of the two sisters when I have seen them : but to what purpose Shall I declare my preference. Since I have not, unfortunately, a heart for. either of them! — had e’en better take her who has the lead merit at once, because I Shall feel the less remorse for my hypo crisy.
Die knows nothing about the cause of mv journey. — I actually dread to acquaint her with what must, Sooner or later, come to her ears. — To be obliged to render those unhappy who constitute all our felicity in this world — .what a painful talk! — sensibility Shudders at the thoughts of it.
h 3 L E T
L <5 ]
LETTER III
From the same to the same.
Budwerth Places
^ Have Seen the lady pointed out for me, and A again I say, ’tis pity to deceive her.”
My father was' in such a hurry to present me to Sir Robert, that he would hardly give me time to have my hair dressed, and to change my deaths, though he might have Seen plainly by my lingering, and by the excases which i made, that I was in no hurry to enter upon the businclv However as the bulinefs was' to be done. the sooner, I thought, the better. Yet,, believe me, mosiyu, I hung back and felt a tremor from head to foot. I never in my whole life was in so* tremulous a condition..
My father told me that t looked lilac a fool, and asked me if I was afraid of such a fine woman. L was actually ashamed of the part I was going to. at; but it is was to no purpose — there, was no retreating. — Yet I would have given my life to have been anywhere but jusi where I was..
While I was in this perplexed Situation Sir ro. r bert appeared, and welcomed me to grafton house with a politeness which I had not expected, as I had been told that he was inconceivably haughty..
When the first civilities were exchanged, he asked my Lord if he would give him leave to Show me part of his garden. He then conducted me through a. beautiful Shrubbery in a serpentine walk, to a rustic
temple. As Soon as I beheld that Slrudure my
eyes
[ r 1
eyes were powerfully attracted; not So much by the edifice itself, as by two female forms, which a poet'would have called the Divinities of the place. They were both, indeed, very lovely women, and mod elegantly dressed. T could not help viewing them both with admiration; and had notmy heart been: engaged, one of them would certainly have enslaved it. They were sitting near each other -: tbit was painting upon taffeta; that had a book in her hand; while her.mandoline leaned againft.her chair.
They rose at our entrance with gibwing complexions, which made them look Still moreibeautifuk
Lucy, the eldest Sister is of a graceful height, and finely formed; ' She has the most'inviting hands and arms to be imagined, and there is a Something in her air extremely pleasing, but a Something not to be expressed: I don’t know whether She can be properly called'a regular'beauty; but sbe is beyond all doubt, a very bewitching creature. Her complexion is clear, and animated with the most lively bloom; her eyes are dark and languishing, and her cye lashes remarkably long and thick,. of the Same colour with her hair which is brown : her. mouth is rather tco wide; but her teeth are white and even. To conclude, her nose is strait and of a>good Size.
I have been very exact, yousee in my description j but I cannot possibly describe the mildness and benignity, nor the becoming modesty, bordering on timidity, mosl agreeably conspicuous in her Speaking Seatures.
Bab the youngesi daughter, is a very different character; — supposing their dispofitions to be painted
I 8 J
»
din their faces. She is as talt and as well made as Lucy, but has a fairer and more dazzling complexion. She has the finesl blue eyes I ever beheld. Her hair is a light auburn; She has a Grecian n©fe, and the fweetesl little mouth you ever
Saw. Her teeth also are very beautiful, and She
•/
frequently exhibits them to advantage with the arch eft Smiles. Sometimes an alluring softness is diffusr ed over her whole countenance, which would fure liy captivate any heart totally free from any attachment.
Charming, however, as the miss Graftons are, and as they are generally allowed to be, they must yield, I think, with regard to personal beauty, to my enchanting Die, with her lovely, sparkling, black eyes, and delicately made little ruby mouth, which I now kifs — by the force of fancy.
But to proceed. — When Sir Robert had introduced us to his daughters, and invited us to take Some re ireshment, the ladies accompanied us, while we strolled about to take views of the pleafanteft parts of the garden, as the weather was uncommonly favourable for that purpose. Had I been really a lover, i Should have thought myself quite happy at the familiar manner in which we were brought together, and at the opportunities dexteroufiy contrived for me, that I might make my choice without those aukwardnestes with which first interviews are generally attended. And indeed many a man would have been puzzled, confoundedly puzzled, upon a Similar occasion; for both the agreeable girls behaved with an easy freedom Sufficient to encourage one to believe that neither of them would
receive
[ 9 I
receive my addresses with reluflance. On a farther conversation with them, however, Lucy appeared not to be quite So much at ease as her fisler. She blushed and trembled when I approached her, though by accident; and Seemed to be delicately fearful of displeafing me, of of not pleasing as much as She wished. Perhaps I fancied She was So, because She most engaged my attention. No — I could not be raislaken. When I chatted mosl to Bab, a Sudden sericusness overspread her gentle countenance; but when I returned to her, joy Seemed to flush her delicate cheek, and every fear ture was expreilive of delight.
I presented to her a fine bunch of orange flowers. .which I had taken, at Sir robert’s desire from a remarkable fine tree in the greenhouse as we passed it. As our hands met, hefs trembled excefi* fively. I was, therefore, insenfibly impelied to
I
oifer mine to Support her, and She accepted of them with a blush, accompanied with a. half fup« presied Sigh. If I marry' one of tiiem, Lucy raufh be the girl; though there is a provoking vivacity in Bab, which would please a thousand, men j but P find Mils Bruton Sufficiently lively.
When I returned home,, my Sather eagerly asked me how I liked the miss Graftons, and which of them I liked best.
I would have artfully evaded a direo: answer, by declaring in favour of them both; but, my evafiye reply would net dot
My lord growing peremptory, I named Lucy; and by naming her had, at leasl, the satisfaction to find my taste approved of by his. lordship.. And
new,
C 10 ]
ROW, what 13 to be done with Die? Can yoo, of any other man, tell me? I must let her know that ar connexion cannot postibly be continued, and yet how I Shudder to think of the condition into which ray information will throw her.. besides, there is my dear little Edward. Sweet fellow! what has he done to be abandoned, and just when he is of an age to be exquisitely entertaining to his fond father. There is no occasion, you will say to give him up; but I know She will never part with her boy, and I cannot live without Seeing him. Who will provide for his future subsistence?? will watch over his tender youth? Who will give him proper inftru(9; ions and teach him to be a better man than his father? I cannot proceed. I am absolutely undone by having Suffered my paf sions to run away with me. say anything, Say everything you can to raise my drooping Spirits; I was ntver Jo law in my life.
L E T T E R IV
mlss Grafton to miss Blond el.
JAM going to keep my word with you, my dear Cecilia, though you have imposed a talk upon me, which I Should not be able to perform without the greatest dishculty, did I not feel myffelf powerfully prompted to talk about this amiable man. Oh,. Cecilia I what have I not suffered since yesterday! Bab, though not less enchanted with him than I am, is laughing ready to kill herself at my tremors. “pr’y thee don’t be somad Bab.”
She
\
I » ]
#
She will interrupt me; yet She is quite as far gone as myself. But you expect me to give you an impartial description of this Mr. Dafhwocd; I cannot possibly describe him with impartiality, for I am by no means an unprejudiced perlbn. Mr, dashwood, then is tall, and finely formed; he has an elegance and gracefulness in his manners, which are charming beyond expresiicn. His eyes j — but how Shall I — — Be quiet, Bab.”
\
Miss Bar BARA Grafton, to Mils Blondel.
H I S eyes, child, are two Stars, the lustre of which has sodazzled poor Lucy, that She can hardly make use of her own.
Miss Grafton, in Continuation,
I have recovered my pen; for Bab will not do justice to my portrait; She is too thoughtless, too giddy.
I have Shut her out of my closet.
Where vasi? Oh! his eyes. — •well then, his eyes, rny dear, are sobright, and yet have such a bewit&hing softness in them, now and then, as if they wiihed to make some atonement for the mischief they do, that there is no supporting their glances. Then he has such a mouth, such smiles, and difeovers when he opens his lips the finest fet of teeth I ever beheld. His nose also is beautiful, and his hair grows in the most elegant manner upon his forehead. But charming as his person is, he is doubly attractive by the winning politeness of his carriage, and the refpcctful rnodesty of his address. He has no insolent airs, no felf fufficiency
appears
t ]
appears in Hs countenance, or behaviour; nevci man had, surely, less vanity, though never mai had more reason to be vain. I trembled, I confess, 'whenever he came near me, and am at this moment in the utmost inquietude. If he prefers bab may they be happy : but if he Shculd chufc me — I dare not expend Such felicity. Yet if I may b allowed to form any rational conjectures about hi; behaviour, if my wies have not deceived me, b does not behold me with the eyes of indifference; I tremble lesl I Should be mistaken. But I Shall never forget the looks which he fometiroes calls oa me. However, his complaisance, and the natural sweetness of his difposition, may unite to blind me. i will not even permit myself to hope; nor will ] close this till tomorrow. You will say I am too much taken with a man at firsl Sight; but let me entreat you not to reprove me too Severely till you have Seen him yoursclf. Besides, had we not heard enough before of the amiable dashwood.,
nm
ifs Grafton, in C out i nuat ion.
O H, Cecilia! how Shall I express my joy! It is unutterable. Happily I am chosen by this dear delightful man.
Lord Budworth this morning acquainted my father with his son’s determination in my favour, who begged he might be permitted to endeavour to gain a heart, which he Should look upon as the mosl valuable acquisition in the world. 1 repeat his lord ship’s words who delivered them as coming from
Mr. dashw ^^ood,
Whal
[ >3 ]
What will become of me, if, upon a farther acquaintance, I Should not answer his expectations?
I am almosl deprived of my Senses through terror and delight; and Shall be hardly able to bear the approaching permitted interview, for fear I Should not please as I wish to please.
I can’t Slay any longer; I fnust hurry to dress; I will neglect nothing to render myself agreeable to Siich a man. Bab has just rushed into my room. She Says She will conclude my letter. I can’t Slay to oppose her.
miss Barbara, in Continuation.
I have looked over what She has written. She has drawn, ’tis true, a lively picture of dashwood, but not too flattering a one. He is really an elegant creature; and sowill She be when She is dresl, if She ever gets through the business of the toilet j but She is too anxious. I don’t believe She will be able to support the expecled interview as She ought to do. I know She will look foolish, and then of cgurfe, the charming fellow will conclude She is over head and ears in love, and So there will be nothing left for him to say.
I like dashwood, probably as much as Lucy does; and had he chosen me, though I think myself fortunate in not having been the obje^ of his choice, I Should have behaved very much like a Simpleton. As no man has hitherto attempted to make me look like a fool, I am willing to keep off the evil day as long as I can. It musl indeed, I fear come in the end; but the longer it is postponed, the better I Shall be prepared for it. I Shall have a fine op
vol.i. B portunity
i
I H 1
portunity of feeing how matters of this Sort are conducted on both Sides.
Lucy has just Sent to ask my opinion about Some Tibbons. She wants to know what colour will Suit her besr. I have; answered her question by ano -- there“ “I see with Mr. dashwood’s eyes, my j dear ?” She wont be quiet. I am Sure if She is So vvhimsical and irresolute. She will never be dresl. I am obliged to fold this up, and send it away.
LETTER V
The Honourable Edward Dash wood to
Sir Francis Mostyn, Bart.
I AM now engaged, and mu ft go thro’ with it, let what will be the consequence. I am determined to give my destined wife no reason to complain of me, and yet I am not in love neither; but I lliould be highly to blame to wound her peace; I Should be destitute of humanity were I capable of planting a dagger in the gentle tender bosom of a woman wdio loves me beyond expresiion. don’t think me vain for saying So. Yet who would not be vain of So fine a creature’s love? Had I not long ago been firmly attached to another, I must have thought myself supremely happy with her. You look astonished, methinks, and imagine me to be a complete coxcomb. I must, therefore, be more particular left you Should accuse me of being too partial to myself.
1 fet out in no very good-humour for this business, as you may suppose. However, as nothing
more
[ 1
was to be neglected on my part, from mere respe^s: to the lady, I drested and went, but just before their hour of dining, in dread of a tite a tete beyond ail things.
I was received by Sir Robert with still more cordiality than before; by Miss Bab with an agreeable freedom : while mlss Grafton Strove to imitate her sifter’s unconstrained behaviour, but could not — She looked abashed, though pleasedflie endeavoured to express her Satisfa6: ion, but war
disconcerted.
When dinner and coffee were over, v/e all went through the winding. Shady walk, already mentioned, to the temple in which I found my goddess,, On our entrance Sir Robert and Bab Stole awai’’.
J y
and left me with the dear girl. — Surely to be in troduced with much ceremony to make hve^ according to the common phrase, is to appear in a very awkward light; especially when one does not care three farthings for the woman. — However, I was not altogether in that Situation : attached as my heart is to another, Tcould not be blind; I could not be infenfiblei I Saw, I felt, and I pitied lucy’s confusion, which was attended with a blush ing timidity that gave her new beauties, and could not fail of charming the most obdurate hearts I took her hand to lead her to a seat. — The finest hand I ever touched (even die’s, solong; somuch admired, is not sobeautiful; — but it' trembled soexceedingly, that L was obliged to detain it, in hopes of giving her a little more courage. — ‘at first, indeed, I believed that, her tremor rnlght have been occasioned by her aversion to me, and there
B 2 fore
[ i6 ]
fore began to flatter myself that I Should not Succeed : but considering that there was another Sister, and that there was little probability of my being rejected by them both, I could not suppress a Sigh,
which was returned by the lady. -- -- -- -- There was
then you know, a necestity for my saying that I hoped the permission with which Sir Robert had honoured me, to endeavour to make my addresfes agreeable to her, had not produced the disquiet under which She visibly laboured— — was going to add, that I would withdraw all my pretensions to her favour, if my apprehensions were well grounded.
Fearfully lifting up her lovely eyes with a bewitching softness in them, and then casting them modestly down again, She Said, with a Sweet, but
tremulous voicis, ** Mv father’s inclination will
^ ■/
ever be mine, Mr. dashwood.”
By confessing, in So pretty a manner, that I was net disagreeable to her, She raised sopleating a sensation in me, that I could not help pastionately killing her charming hand.
We then entered into conversation with rather iess restraint. — She Seemed every now and then, to relapse into her former embarralsment; yet She discovered more Strength of understanding, and delicacy of Sentiment, than ever I met with in any woman. She alfoshew^ed Such a deference to what file politely called my Superior judgement, while her languishing eyes were full of tenderness, that I could not have mistaken the cause of her particular carriage, had not her blufnes, Sighs, and various emotions, fufhciently convinced me of my consequence in her eyes. — Her behayiour I confess, flattered my
vanity
[ H I
vanity extremely; yet I hated myself at the Same time, because I felt myself unable to be as grateful as r ought to have been. I Strove to appear as warm a lover as She, I imagined, wisliedme to be! and while I ventured to avail myself of the decent freedoms arising from'my Situation with her, when I precfed her soft white hand in mine,, and eveni touched her rosy lips, which breathed a fragrance beyond defeription,, and which were yielded to me with a mosl inviting; delay, I' surely Should have sunk distolved in transports' in her arms, had not Die at'that intoxicating moment came athwart my imagination. — I discovered So much ardour however — s’death! who could have been unmoved upon So animating, an occasion, with a drop of blood in his veins? — that the poor dear quivering creature, looked alarmed, ..though pleased.v even terrified at being o pleased with my earestcsv and tried to disengage herself from my arms with a glowing timidity, .with such a delicate relu^ance, that completed her. conquest: over me. — I mufi‘ admire muji reuere heny but I must feeuiov'dxq. — This angel ravishes my senses, while the other charmer posfesres my heart. — Andyetdet me ask myself one Serious question — Is She not arthoufand times more worthy of my heart than Die is, „whose life was So irregular before her attachment to wr?.? — But then again, has She not Since been honesl and faithful,
and is She not the mother of my boy Oh
There — there I feel; — Why then not marry her? — But can I venture to marry a creature who has prostituted her person to somany? — Yet — has She not freely prostituted it to me? — True — womaii,
B 3 however.
[ i8 ]
however, who has once Showed a disregard for her honour, cannot prudently be trusted. — But Supposing I could repose a confidence in her — supposing I could depend upon her fidelity — I Should be covered wfith Shame — I Should be pierced with re morse, and not, improbably plunged into distress,, taking So indisereet, So dangerous a Step. — I dare not think of it.
I forgot to tell you one thing, which gives me no Small pleasure. Lord Charbury has’ purchased an estate in this part of the country— — has called on me, and I have introduced him to Sir Robert and the two lovely fillers..
L E T T E R VI
Miss G R A F T O N to Miss Bl O N IE L
I Have omitted to gratify your impatience, my dear, merely for want of time. — Mr. Dalhwood has been here constantly, and everything must be postponed for the pleasure of his enchanting company. — But I have not told you in what manner he first addressed me. — In how exquisitely pleaslng,; in how delicately tender a manner he addressed me. — There is no describing it — there is no doing justice to it. — Nor can I inform you how I behaved myself — silly enough mosl certainly. — I waa transported, asharaed, agitated, and embarrassed toi the greatest degree. — He Saw my confuslon. — It was undoubtedly but too visible — and kindly endeavoured to relieve me, by giving a turn to the conversation : by that turn he also gave me an opportunity
y
[ 19 1
i
portunity to display the few talents, of which I flatter myself I am mistress— — how insignificant, how trifling was everything to him! I was indeed, sointoxicated with his behaviour, and So fearful of not deserving, or not keeping poftellios of the heart I had gained — (at lead vanity told me I had gained it) that my senses were all in confusion.
While I was in a very fluttered Slate, he asked me to accompany my mandoline, which hung up near me, with my voice
I Strove to oblige him, but I Strove in vain : T could not express a Single note. He was So good as to excuse me: he would not even let me charge myself with an incapacity to entertain him, telling me, with suck a smile, that I musl not by Seeking to find faults in myself, attempt imposlibilities. — I will wait, continued he, till you are more ac cuslomed to the Sight of me, more convinced of my regard for you, and more sensible of your own merit.’* — -
How insinuating, bow Soothing, how very, very, pleasant is flattery, ray dear, especially from those we love! — How my heart hung on his lips, while I read in his eyes — when I dared to look on him, for their dazzling brightness, and their melting ibftness, alternately abashed while they charmed me) that he was not displeased with my exceslive timidity. — Nay he hid the blushes which glowed. in my face while I listened, enraptured, to the praises he lavished on .me, in his dear bosom. — — What transporting sensations did I then feel? — Was I to blame, Cecilia, for being tenderly, though modestly, touched by the melting behaviour of
so
[ 20 ]
socharming a man? A man chosen for me by my father, a man to whose merit no father could be blind; with whose loveliness no daughter could be unaffected.
Believe me, my Sweet friend, partial as I may be to Adr. Dafiiwood,. I am not the only person who thinks highly of him Ady father and my filler— —. Cecilia, the dear wild Bab — confess that he is extremely attractive., Bab has refused many offers, but She would not, 1 think,; have rejected my amiable, my elegant dashwood.
Adr. dashwood has introduced a friend of his. Lord Charbury,, who will, I fancy,, make Bab amends for her loss;; he muss not be compared to admired lovorthough,, next to him, his lordship is the mofti agreeable man I ever beheld: tall, well made,., fine hair, eyes, teeth — but I cannot waste my time in describing him. now— — muss practise Some Songs,, that I may be ready to entertain Air. dashwood when he comes. He is musical, and has a very fine tasle: So much the worse for me, as I am almosl rendered incapable of performing by my fearssoexceedingly do I tremble, lesli Should give disgusl, while I mean to give pleasure, to So good a judge. But I will learn, if posfible, of him, who excels in everything, how to charm a heart Co very dear to me.
LET[
[ ]
LETTER VII
The Honourable Eoward Dashwood to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
Matters were going on sofast, that I
thought it absolutely necessary to inform Die myself, of what She musl otherwise have heard, possibly in a manner Still less agreeably to her. I therefore sat down to perform the most difficult talk I ever undertook. No easy one is it to any man, I presume, to persuade a woman whom he sincerely loves, and by whom he is fondly beloved,, to consent to an eternal Separation. I afitually trembled while I wrote, well knowing that what I wrote would be perused with the greatesl disturbance of mind. — I was not mistaken.
I dispatched my letter by Hopkins; ordering him to wait, and bring me back an answer. The poor creature was utterly incapable of returning a line to me. She fell out of one fit into another, and Else, her woman, has Sent me werd that unless I come to town, and endeavour to calm her mind. She cannot answer either for her senses or her life. — >you niav imagine what an efpedt this in telligence had on me— — Scarce Staid to take a Short leave of Lucy, but flew to London, pretending urgent business.
I found my poor Die an object of pity indeed. The moment I entered her apartment I beheld her reclined on a Sopha, with her fine hair dishevelled, and more like a mad woman than a rational
[ 22 ]
nal being; and my dear little innocent was by her, begging her not to cry.
She rose instantly, and taking the child by the hand, led him to me, while She threw herself at my feet, and with the most moving accents, while tears at the same time Streaming from her lovely eyes, entreated me not to think of leaving her, if i had not a mind to destroy her and her poor dear boy at once.' — “I cannot — will not part with you — continued She — sobbing as if. her heart would burst— — was afraid that Something, fatal to my peace was going forward, by your quitting me So abruptly : — but you Shall not quit me alive again, I Swear you Shall not.” — 
I raised her immediately in my arms. — I catched my weeping boy to my bosom, and pressed his dear innocent cheek to mine. I then Strove to make use of all my eloquence to reconcile her to a proceeding on my part, which nothing but necessity, cruel necessity, could have driven me to — letting her, by degrees, into the State of my affairs, that She might plainly see how impossible it would be for me to support her any longer without an increase of income, by the acquisition of which I Should be enabled to provide, decently at least, if not affluently, for herself and her child.
And is he not yours also, replied She — too well you know he is. — Is he not Strikingly like his dear lovely, inconstant father?”
Do not upbraid me. Die, for what I never Should have consented to, neither on Mils grafton’s account, nor on your’s, could I have poslibly
avoided
[ 23 ]
avoided it. She is as little deserving to be deceived as you; and yet She is the only deluded person.
Oh! do not pity her. Said Die; you Speak of her as if you loved her. — “Villain! added She, (rising in a fury) I am Sure you da. — But where is She? — I will find her out — I will tear out those eyes that have Seduced you.’*
If you will be cairn, replied I, interrupting her, you Shall have no reason to be jealous; but if you give way to this impetuosity, I will leave you for ever.”
This Speech Silenced her for a moment, though it could not compose her agitated mind; for She shook all over, and her fine face was every now and then distorted with the pangs which I most unwillingly had occasioned. — H -- -- -- -- ns! what was
my. Situation 1 Who would endure what / did at that moment, for the sake of gratifying myself in the arms of a fine woman! — I could, at that in -- Slant, have sworn never even to casl a look at a Single female. — I would mosl cordially have renounced the whole sexto have regained the heartfelt satisfaction I enjoyed before I became acquainted with this once lively — now wretched creature. — But as past hours could not be recalled, I was obliged to go on. I, therefore, again entreated her to hear me. — I again told her my reasons for entering into a Slate, to which vje alone had given me a difgusl; and added that nothing but my inability to Secure a maintenance for her had prompted me to listen to Such a proposal, infisled upon, however, by my father, who had luckily been ig
V
nor ant
[ 24 ]
norant of our attachment, ignorant at leaf!, of its being desircus to us both as ever.
As I was almost necestarily reduced, while I expatiated on this Subject, to hint at the great expense which my Support of her had occasioned. She bursl into a violent Shower of teas. — “Had you ever informed me, Said She, of your being not in a Situation to Support me in a way of life to which I have been accustomed, I Should have retrenched all Superfluities, and practised the Strictest economy, rather than have driven you to fly to So dreadful a remedy.” — But I knew that all She Said about economy came only from her lips. — Bred up in the most luxurious Style of living, and indulged from her infancy with the gratification of her heart’s every, most fantastic wish, She had not the least idea of frugality; She could never think of denying herself the Slightest trifle, which her inclination demanded. — She astured me, however, that She would directly retire to the cheapest lodgings She could meet with, in the obscurest part of the town, if I would only promise to see her as usual— — “boy, continued She, devouring him with carestes, this darling boy,, the exact re scmblance of his father, Shall Share his mother’s penury, to preserve that father’s love for her.”
I could not bear to hear her talk thus. — She melted my soul. — I begged her in themost earnest manner to compose herself, as She would absolutely distradt me if She remained in So agitated a condition.
« No — no, cried She, / am the person to be distracted: J who am going to be thrown off by
the
*
V
[ 25 ] '
the man on whom mv soul dotes : /, Who am tp
«/
lose him, whom more than life 1 love; and to have thp additional mortification to know that he leaves nse for another; a gay, a happy woman: for nappy Jhe must indeed be who possesses my charming dash wood. — But She Shall never enjoy you long : whether I die or live, I will haunt you both till I make you as wretched as you have made tnei'"*
“pr’ytheedon’t talk soextravagantly, said I; but consider calmly, that I could not have acted otherwise; and be assured that I will make the most ample provision for you, and my poor little fellow here.” — (ite rejoiced to Sec me again, the Sweet boy had climbed into my lap, and began to play with me.
After having made numberless efforts to refiore ' my poor die’s tranquillity, and to bring her to rea.. She grew more quiet, but far from being Satisfi ^ CD — At last. She, by her tears, her terrors, and her
endearments, sowrought upon me — what man
/
can Sleel himself against the woman of his heart? — that I promised to consent to anything to pacify her, provided She did not oppose the engagement into which I had entered, and make me appear both a rogue and a fool.
She declared She would not oppose me, upon certain conditions. “You' must not think of loving this woman, said She; you cannot indeed be expefited to love her, gs you only marry her for convenience.”
“You cannot suppose, Interrupted I, that She will fuspefl me of marrying her from mercenary
vol. I. C motives[
[ ]
motives; She will, therefore naturally expect to b treated with the tenderness of a lover.
** Let her expect what She will — and wilh, anc long, and dote, as I do but I Swear if you see the least tenderness, the dighteft inclination foi her, you will make me mad, and I will be re venged on you both, though I perish in the at tempt.”
I
1 was thus, you see, obliged to subscribe, in ap' pearapxe, to everything which her frantic pasli on prompted her to require of me; and I adlualb believe that the tempesl raised in her Soul by thi intended change in my Situation, will not be fooi aituaged. — I tremble for her life — I tremble sothe Safety of her whom I am to marry, as I knov her to be vindictive enough to be capable of doin^ things, the bare thoughts of which would make other women Shudder. — And yet how very lovel] is She w’hen under the influence only of the tender passion, or when a soft Serenity in her face II the agreeable indication of a heart thoroughly a rest. Seldom, however, is that serenity visible frequently does the fmallesl trifle disconcert her and the flightesl breath of contradiction blows hei into a Storm. In Such moments of perturbatioi the finest features nature ever formed become frightful, and the whole woman is an object o; horror. — I mu ft, therefore, for my owm ease, a: well as her’s, for the sake of my future wife’s tranquillity, and in order to keep up Some kind of credit with her and her family, carry matters a: fair as I can with Die, who villi hope, be b) degrees brought to her reason, and to resign me.
LET[
[ ]
)
LETTER VIII
From the same to the Same.
Bud worth Place.
I Have, at last, torn myself from Die, and am here again: but I could not get away till I had alracft sworn not to love what is really very denra ble.
Miss Grafton, by th eagerness with which Sie flew to receive me, by the satisfaction which Sparkled in her eyes, and by her glowing countenance, Sufficiently convinced me that my return gave her the Sincerell: pleasure.
I made the besl excuse I could for mv long ab,,
o
Sense both to her and to her father; but the latter was not So well Satisfied as the former. — The dear amiable girl appeared to be too much delighted to have me again, to think of chiding me, would her delicacy have permitted her. ’tis very fortunate that she is of somild a disposition;; Die, before file would part with me, made me swear to make a second elopement in a few days, except I chose to see her at Sir robert’s.
After all, Frank, ’tis to be auk'.varcly circumstanced to See a woman with whom we are only pleasurably connected, want to exert So improper an authority over us. — But, indeed, I was ever of op inion, that a mistress is far less eligible than a wife. Many inconveniences may, perhaps, arise from an indissoluble engagement, but Still greater,
I am Sure, Spring from a temporary connexion.
C a “How
[ 2$ ]
“How came you then sostrongly attached to
this woman r”
I will tell you: but in order to make you perfectly acquainted with an affair, which certainly requires an elucidation, I must give you a Short account of the lady in question.
Miss Bell ers is the daughter of a man of Some family, but of little or no fortune, who being of too idle a temper to apply himself to any employment, by Avhicli he might improve his income, chose rather to make the moil of a .handsome - amorfg the women, many of whom, when he was at a very early age, distinguished him with the lait marks of their fiavour. Among the variety of his acquaintance he Saw at the house of one of them the mother of Diana, who though not So beautiful as several with whom he conversed, was an infinitely more pleasing object in his eyes than any woman he had ever beheld. To sogreat a degree, indeed, did Sue Strike him, that he immediately availed himself of every opportunity to gain her upon his own terms. He was happy enough to Sind that he was beloved by hr j but as She vas virtuous. She would listen to no dishonourable proposal. Matrimony was by no means asreeabie or convenient to him, as her Sortune was very Small; yet being earnestly desirous of moncpoliz.ing her charms, he was prompted to address her in her own way, and they were married. Luckily for them both an uncle of the la
J
dy’s dying soon afterwards, and leaving Something
considerable to her, they lived very genteelly, and
educated Diana, their only child, born about a
vear
1
[ 29 ]
year after their marriage, in the pouteft manner; at the same time endeavouring to gratify even her ridiculous wishes, which were sot a few, as She was naturally of a whimsical and capricious difposition. Her person was extremely beautiful: She mace a quick progress in dancing, music, and drawing. She never could Sing, indeed, never having a voice Strong enough to enable her to excel; but in conversation her tones were uncommoilly Sweet. At a very early period in life — a period freciuently fatal to girls. Site lost her mother : and loon alter her death, Mr. Bellers, having been restrained from committing Several extravagances by the prudence of his wife, for whom he had a great esleem, soon gave a soose to his inclination. Scon plunged into all kinds of debaucheries, and Soon fell a martyr to them, leaving his daughter under
seventeen, with not a Single hundred towards her
•A
subsistence, after his creditors were fatissied. A young and lively creature thus thrown into the world, was certainly in an alarming, in a truly dangerous Situation; and her Situation had Such an effeift upon a friend of her late mother, that She took her home by way of a companion; thinking that if She had ever So little discretion, joined to So charming a person. Some man of fortune might take a fancy to her. But discretion was never one of die’s virtues : all the little prudence which She discovered during her mother’s life was entirely losl during her father’s, who, after the decease of his wife, was too much taken up with his own amusements, to attend closely to the conduct of his daughter. Die was not guilty of any
C 3 very
[ 3" 1
'Very considerab’e misdemeanois, but She was far from ling difcrect cn many occasions. The lady who had generously received her into her house loon perceived her errors, and being a woman ol understanding and character, as well as benevolence, Set herself to work, in order to produce a reformation. Miss Belters, however, was too obstinate and perverse to pay any regard to the advice or the reproof of her best, and indeed hei only friend. Meeting with lord P -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- at hei
•> o
house, She was at first treacherously seduced by him, but afterwards easily prevailed on to live with him in the moil: unreputable light: though She has Since a thousand times declared that Slic never loved him, but that being forsaken by her benefa(£trefs. She had no other asylum to fly to. M) lord, not being famous for his constancy, in a little while! gfevy weary of her, and deceived her. according to her own account, into the arms o: another man of fashion, who being Still less refined in his pleasures. Soon left her in dislrefs. She was then solicited by a celebrated gentlewoman. who deals very largely in beauty, and agreed, but with the greatest reluctance, to the terms proposed to her, as She was quite at a loss for a fub iitlance. In this gentlewoman house I first be held her (for the punishment of my sins,, doubtlef I beheld^her), — I accompanied a gay friend of mim to it one evening, at his earned requed, wh( having before fixed upon his favourite nymph Miss Bellers fell to my lot *, and So artfully did Shi play her part. So pathetically did She lament, witl si'3 hs and tears, her pad errors (into which, ai
C 31 1
\
jhe related her Story, She had been cruelly deluded) that my heart, naturally alive to Sorrow, especially in So fair a form, was touched beyond expresh, on at her tale, which was delivered with Soothing accents, Strongly heightened by the Silent eloquence of weeping loveliness. I could not but endeavour to relieve an object appearing to me to be soworthy of relief. I took her immediately from that infamous house, and placed her in private lodgings. By soaccommodating her, I at firsl only, I poffitively aver, dellgned to asest her in escaping from So pernicious a dwelling, and to put her into Some way of providing for herself, without the corruption of her morals, and the deslruc. tion of her peace; but She poured out her gratitude in somoving a manner for what I had already done, that I was quite unmanned by it: I was Softened to a degree not to be deferibed, and before I was aware owned a pasllon which I, however, attempted not to gratify without her entire approbation. Her consent was not long wanting: She soon, indeed, though with floods of tears, confessed ed that She loved me beyond either life or honour. After such a confession, you may imagine that there was little ceremony on my Side, and as little reluctance on her’s. ’tis impossible to tell you how much her society charmed me; I can only say that I was absolutely intoxicated with it: and the affecting distress in which She always appeared whenever there was the'mosl remote hint of a Separation, Served but to Strengthen my attach ment to her. I thought I could not do too much ' towards making her life agreeable to her in every
'xespect.
[ 32 ]
refpefit. My purse was ever at her command: and as She was of an exceedingly expensive turn, my fortune was Soon very much impaired. So much, indeed, is it impaired, that I am obliged to except of my father’s terms. They are, I freely own, terms to which few Sons could, with reason, frame any objections; and they are terms to which I Should, without the lead hefjtation. Subscribe, did I not Jeel for this poor woman, who mull by this procedure of mine, be rendered extremely unhappy. Not that 1 am in the least weary of Diana, nor yet in love with Lucy. The truth is, I do not approve of So irregular a life: but after what I have told you, you cannot suppose, that had I a Sufficiency, I should bring myself to think of marrying miss Bellers. Admitting the prudence of our union, my boy would not be legitimated by it. Yet, when I look upon that amiable child, when I consider that his mother has been faithful to me, that Slae Still dotes on me — how — how can I drive her from my heart? But I must conclude here. I have already said enough upon a Subject, which I wish mosl Sincerely I could for ever forget.
L E T TER IX
9
From the same to the Same.
WE are now proceeding with the greatest
expedition; Settlements are drawing; deaths making, c. Stc. You will Soon See your friend become Benedict the married man. Were
this
[ 33 ]
this Die but once out of my head, I Should, I believe, be contented with my lot.
Lucy improves upon me hourly; as we necessarily grow more familiar. She of course difeovers more of her real disposition, which is, indeed, amiable beyond expresiion. She has also an accomplishment which Die wants; itie Sings like an angel. Would I had never Seen the wretched bel lers; I might then have been happy. You will hardly give credit to me when! tell you what pains I take to forget her; but all to no purpose as I receive Sheets of paper from her every posi, blotted with her tears, and filled with the Strongest: injun(5tions not to forget her, nor my promise to her, in the arms of rny bride. This word however, was not in her letter; She could not bring herself to write it. But I will 1 say no more of her — at least, not at present.
We pafs our time here cheerfully enough; perpetually Shifting the Scene by meeting alternately at Grafton house, Budworth Place, and Elm Park, lately purchased by lord Charbury, who is become almost one of our family, and is extremely well received by Sir Robert Grafton, as he has an eye upon him for miss Bab. I begin to think too that the lady herself is not a little pleased with his person and conversation. Charbury has, you know, a fine open countenance. Strongly expresiive of the innate goodness of his heart; a heart replete with those virtues which do most honour to humanity. He is also very graceful in his manners, and mo dest in his carriage; So that by his virtue and his
agremens
\
I 34 ]
agreement together, he has, I actually believe, made himself of no Small consequence in bab’s eyes; though Ihe would rather forfeit her life, I fuppose, rather than confess somuch, as She seems to have a little proud heart, and Spirit Sufficient to carry her through a love affair with any man. But all this is only conjecture; the worst of the business is, my lord appears to be blind to her charms : not but that he has owned to me that he thinks her exceedingly handsome. He spoke of her, however, with as much femg froid as if She had been his filter. But he is a fellow uncommonly Stoical upon these cccafions. How infinitely happier is he vrith his apathy than myself, who with a less Share of sensibility
V
might Stand a fair chance of being happy; for I dare swear that in lucy’s opinion, there are no Shades in my character. Would to heaven that I were as free from failings as the good girl believes me to be. You cannot imagine, mostyn, what remorse I feei in being obliged to impose upon such an artless, amiable creature; yet I will, by all that’s good, I will endeavour Sc to conduct myfelt that She Shall not have any rtaibn to suspect me; but I have a very difiicuk game to play; for if Die only fancies that I love Lucy She will be the
wretchedest woman in the world; and if file discovers any proofs of my affection for her, they will certainly drive her to some desperate aclion. I have brought myself into Such a Situation, that I cannot refiecl upon it without Shuddering. The pity which I feel for these two fine creatures is inexpressible: the one is rendered actually miserable.

[ 35 ]
rable, the other mosl probably will be So — from my foliy. Yet how thoroughly do I despife myself for being So abject a wretch as to tremble at the resentment of a woman, whom, but for my sliame full weakness in yielding to the first impulse of an irregular passion, I might have at this time beheld, with the highest Satisfaction, the most refined delight — as nothing Surely can equal the joy arising from our having relieved the mind oppressed with misery, or Saved the gui'ty from the com mifiion of new crimes. What joy Should I have felt, had I asiifted miss Bellers to quit a life of infamy, instead of making her continue in that life, instead of making her Still more infamous, by the indulgence of my criminal inclination for her! —. Probably, you will think that I treat this business too seriously: but were it posiible for you to examine the heart of many a poor devil, who has, like me, encouraged a woman to prefer a life of infamy to a life of virtue, you would not, I imagine, find it in a much more quiet State than mine is: though I Still am thankful to heaven that I was not the firsl who seduced her from the paths of innocence. The conscioufnefsof havingbeen herfirst Seducer would, I believe, drive me to distraction. But you will say, perhaps, that as I was her first, her only lover, I might have a6ted like a man of honour by marrying her, and by So doing have very Soon excluded all reproaching reflections. — True, Frank, — but I am too nice to take up with even my own leavings. I have ever laid it down, as a rule never to be disregarded, that She who will yield to one will not be over coy to another. Should
accident
[ 3^ ]
accident or opportunity prompt her to be kind; and therefore, with this way of thinking, I Shall certainly be the last man in the world to marry my own mistress. To a woman who is not dutifully attached to you, who is not interested in your happiness, you will only be a temporary favourite: and when once a woman really thinks that infidelity is no crime. She will undoubtedly act agreeably to her thoughts. I do not in the leasl impute die’s constancy to me to any penitential reflections on her past conduct, to any virtuous feelings. She is, I believe, only faithful to me, because I happen to be at present her favourite. I Shall appear inconfistent by laying So; but I cannot help declaring to you, that tlio’ I could have been glad to have continued my attachment to her unmolested — I wish, with all my Soul, that She would Just now take a fancy to Some other man. However, as I promised you at the beginning of this ‘letter that I would cease talking of her, I will Stop here — while it is in my power.
letter X
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
IN a very Short time now, my dear, }tur' Lucy will be in a very different situation in life; a Situation about which, till I became acquainted with Mr dashwood, I was quite indifferent; but I Shall now enter upon it with the most disquieting apprehensions, doubts, and fears, lest I Should not always be soagreeable to him as 1 wish to be. The
dread
[ 37 ]
dread of disgusting him on a nearer intimacy, or, at lead, of not pleasing him according to my earned desire, fills me with a thousand anxieties; and I Sometimes, indeed, fancy that it would be infinitely more painful for me to part with Mr. dashwood than for him to be fef>arated from me. I have no cause, I own, to complain of him as a lover, but he appears frequently lod in thought, and falls into such reveries, from which he never recovers without the dronged marks of confusion, that I cannot any way account for his abdradted behaviour. It fills rne with the fofted pity, and forces me to discover more tenderness than may be necef. fary. Yet will you not permit me to confess, that Mr. dashwood is become very dear to my fond heart; So dear that I cannot See him labour under the dighted disquiet, without feeling myself ready to offer up my life to remove it: and surely I do not go too lar by saying So, for he always receives every proof of my affection in the mod endearing manner. I cannot help loving him soSincerely; yet did I imagine that I difpleased him by loving him So much, 1 would try to love him less.
Bab, will you believe it, my dear, is certainly very much taken with lord Charbury, who is, real,, every way deserving of all that my dashwood has Said in his favour; his person and his rnanners are quite unexceptionable. — I have not a ^reat deal of time, indeed, to mind the affairs of other people, atpresent; but I cannot help, from my own sensitions, becoming a more knowing adept in love affairs every hour; and I think I fee' nothing the lover in my lord. He is, however, not
^ D witlidanding
[ 38 ]
/
withstanding this Supposed indifference, very muc with us, both at home, and in all our parties. — A the friend of Mr. dashvvood, his intimacy increase in our family, and Bab and he are, of course, perpetually together. The little gypsy, I can see, play off all her charms; but I do not find that the' • have yet done any execution. Lord Charbur is naturally of a Serious turn, though often; very Sprightly cornpanion. Bab takes an infinit deal of pains to make him as wild as herself and he will Sometimes, as if merely to divert bot her and himself, fall in with her whims; but h Seems generally to fall in with them rather througl complaisance than inclination. My father is prodigiously fond of him. You know my father’s pasiioi for rank, which would, I dare say, setting aside th( advantageoufnefs of Such a match, make him re solve to fix his lordxhip for a fon in law. He therefore, encourages his visits, and enters into all Bab’; devices to amuse him, at least to attradl his attention. — Sir Robert has also permitted her to give j definitive anfvver to Sir Richard Nevil, who has been, you know, for forae time, her admirer, and whc was kept in fufpcnce by my father —; (though much a2; ainsi: mv sifter’s will, as She always declared She
O J * >>
never could like him) till Mr. Dashwood had
made his choice. You may, therefore, suppose
that my lord will be accepted as Soon as he offers
hiimfelf. Mr. Dafhwcod thinks, with me, that
Biab is by no means averse to his friend; and when
«/ ^
I told him I wished they might come together, he replied, I am net Sure whether my lord does not look upon himself to be in Some measure preengaged— —
[?
\
%
gauged. — The cafe is this: the late lord Charbury was left guardian to a miss Lewson by her father, who was his particular friend, and who always ex prested a desire that She might be, at a proper age, married to his Son, provided the young people had no objection to each other; but as miss lewson was not marriageable at her father’s death, and as the present lord was abroad, a union between them could not at that time be thou; ht of. She was
o
continued at the same School in which her lather had placed Her, by her guardian, who died before his son’s return to England. She was then left to this young gentleman’s care. Lord Charbury found among his father’s papers a few lines, in which conslantia vas Strongly recommended to him for a wife, if they liked each other well enough to enter into the married Slate together; but as my lord has declared that he does not like to take a girl from School to marry her, and as they have no female relations with whom She can be properly trusled, nothing has been determined. I have often heard him say that She is handsome and sensible, and lament his being unable to know what to do with her.
I never heard that he was in love with her; but I am inclined to believe that he has rather a desire to slq. agreeable to his father’s inclination.
Thus far Mr. dashwood. — And now tell me, my friend, if you think there are any hopes for my Sister. — You must not, however, mention anything of what I have written to her, as She would most probably never forgive my feeing — what, with all her heart and address, She has not been able to hide— — Sometimes think that lord Charbury is too
D 2 pene
[ 49 ]
'. penetrating not to make discoveries of the same kin with mine: yet he does not, by any part of h behaviour, induce me to suppose that he as mac them. — rmr. dashwood is just come. — I cann( Stay to write any more at present
/
XI
The Honourable Edward Dashwood tc
Sir Francis Mostyn, Bart.
9
\
This poor wretched woman will not let n
enjoy a moment’s rest; She will make n as unhappy as herself. She had, I told you, written to me Several times Since I left her. In the la I received, She So strongly claimed my promise see her once again before the dreadful ceremoi was performed, and concluded with somdny'threa of vengeance, not only against Miss Grafton, b against herself, that I could not withstand the ea nest, and indeed alarming summons, especially file repeatedly astured me, that the Sight of m though for the last time, would make her mo calm.
I parted from Lucy, pretending that I was g ing to accelerate matters towards ^ day, which am in no hurry to See. How few men in my tuation would talk thus, just on the point of posfesfi one of the finesl women in England; a woman t who loves me, fondly loves me; for when I ba her adieu, her head dropped, and She looked like blushing rose covered with peariy dew, broke fre its Stalk. — Believe me, Frank, I kisted away 1:
tea
#
[ 41 ]
tears, and almost wished I had not talked of leaving her. — Something of that Sort escaped me in my hurry; the gentle girl Caring, I imagine, thatfne had offended me, by discovering So much Sorrow at
my leaving her, raised her charming head again, and with a modest blush begged me to excuse her, if She had too warmly esprefled the concern She felt on my approaching departure ‘‘ 1 well knew, Mr. dashwood, continued the dear creature, that a woman’s affection and fears may be Sometimes rather too troublesbme; yet I hope I may rationally expect pardon from soamiable a man.” — •
What an excellent disposition *~how Tadore her
for it!
“But it would not keep vou from Die —
True — true, my friend, because compaslion led me to her. — Oh, moslyn! what would I not give to Sind Die of soheavenly a temper? — And yet I musl here contradidl myself; for if She was, I must either marry her, or Suffer Still a thousand times more anguish on her account than Ido already. — For Surely it mu St be infinitely more cutting to be pained for an angel than for a fiend; and Die, at present, I think, too much resembles the latter.
I was received with the keenesl reproaches and upbraidings, during which Sue forget everything due to her Sex and me; and vented Such volleys of execrations against the innocent girl, whom I am going to marry, against the joining of our hands, against the nuptial bed, &tc. Sec. that one would have actually fet her down for a lunatic, had She not immediately come to herself upon my treating her with my for.ner endearments. With the ut
D 3 mofl:
‘ [ 42 ]
mod difficulty I prevailed on her to tell me wh> She Summoned me in Such a hurry. — After having fainted aavay twice or thrice, and as often attempt ed to dellroy herself, She vowed that the day oi which! was wedded to Lucy, Should be the lad o her life, and the most accursed of the year, unlec I would take the mod Solemn oath not to abandoi her totally, but to See her frequently, ' and never t( Show any more attention to the girl, whom I wa determined to marry, than was absolutely necestar in order to keep fair with the family.
I aiked her calmly how She could reasonably ex
\ J I
pecst to Share the lady’s fortune, when She grudgei her a Share of my love.
“Love! replied She — Oh! name it not — th bare idea is not to be born. You Shall not, dar not love her. — — besides, how little does fhi deserve your love, compared tome! Yourconnec tion with her is in consequence of a sordid compact made between two mercenary fathers, by which yoi 'acquire a large addition to your fortune, and Sh(
gains— — -- -- ns! — a man for whom all the reil o
her Sex would give up fortune, reputation, health Life— — thing mod precious to them; while / — but I will not boad of what I have done; freely willingly, consented to Sit down with loss of character, though it might have been through your generosity retrieved; and would mod readily, mos cheerfully part with my life to make your’s happy
• — As to my life, indeed, I Shall neither be abh ' nor desirous to preserve it, after being deprived o you; yet I confess it will give me a cruel pang in m3 ' lad moments, to know that yowr’r can only be mad
Isappy by a union with this — Oh! let me not name
her.
[ 43 1
her, let me not think of her — this devil, who is to rob me of my dear charming dashwood, the father of my wretched undone child.” — '
Here sits quick Succeeded each other. The poor innocent fellow roared and cried that his mother was dead. — She too increased my distress, by telling him, recovering a iittle, that I would kill her with mv cruelty.
J
The Scene that followed would have, J believe, touched the moil obdurate heart. — 1 could not Stand it.
The frighted boy, with the mosl pity moving looks, turning his eyes firsl towards his mother, and then towards me, sobbed out, “Dear, dear papa — ■ dont’t hurt my poor mama — kill me papa — 1 had rather die than my mama ” — clinging about my knees. — I could not Stand it — I was melted.
Catching up the dear amiable boy in my arms, and drying his poor wet cheek, I told him I would do everything in my power to preserve him and his mother too.
Hanging upon my neck, he begged to Slay with me.
“Why, my dear Ned, said I, don’t you love your mama besl ?”
“Yes I do, replied the sweet child; but She frights me So that I had rather live with you.” —
Poor innocent! may I be permitted totay that his choice was mosl judicious? How I wished to confirm it, and to take him from this furious woman, who will quite Spoil his temper, as few children at his age have So much sensibility, or brighter parts. — i The more likelyj therefore, is he to be Spoilt. — But
to
C 44 ]
to take him from her now, would be to make her mad indeed, and where to place him I know not. ’• — I, who ought to be his instrmstor, I, who am is doting father, am ashamed to own him. — How severely, but how justly, am I punished for my folly; never to have it in my power to make my much loved Son the inheritor of my name and fortune, but doomed to See him innocently Suffering, for ever deprived of his father’s protection, and for his father’s indiscretion condemned to ignominy. — My heart bleeds for him; for, if I am not mistaken, this dear child is as good as he is unfortunate — Why then Should I afflict my Seif about him? Will he not with an agreeable temper and an amiable heart be as truly deserving as if he was the lawful
'heir to the liighest title, and to the krgeft estate in the kingdom? — Is not virtue far beyond birth, and and is not internal merit Superior to all outward advantages? Undoubtedly: but when I confider how liable a youth with sotender. So yielding a heart, is to be drawn' into the very Same errors, the remembrance of which at this moment fill me with contrition and remorse, how can I help feeling a thcufand fears for my little Edward? How can I help wishing — thouo b I wislr in vain — to have him always under my own eye, that I may continually warn him against those follies which have proved So fatal to me. — But, perhaps, Lucy, by and by, may give me leave to introduce him into the family as a friend’s Son, or in Some other Shape. — His mother will undo all again. In Such a case he musl not be Suffered to See her. — And can I tear from her everything
mosl dear to her, her child? — Heaven forbid
that
[ 45 ]
t
that 1 Should first teach him to be undutiful to his other parent. Thus, which ever way I turn me, Moftyn, nothing but what is in the highesl degree disagreeable presents itself to my imagination. — But to return to Die — would I could forget her I Snatching the boy from me, upon hearing him breathe his pretty infantine wish to live with me, She roughly Shook his tender Shoulder, and asked him in an imperious tone, who had taught him to hate his mother.
)
** Mama I’’ replied the weeping child. Staring up in her face.
Then, turning to me. She said“ “So you want to make me completely miserable, you' want to take my child from me. — I see your drift. — But you Shall not carry ymur design into execution. — No, Sir — he is my own; and Sooner than I will give him up to you, we will both Starve together. — No — I will die a thousand deaths before I will part with him, and for this one most unnatural wish of your’s, may your hated marriage bed be ever child lefsl — may your cursed wife be barren! — But why do I Spend my breath thus, and waste the little Strength I have left, added She, Softening her voice, in calling down vengeance on your head, my dashwood, when you may yet remember your promise, and then I may pafs the remainder of my life — • Short will the remainder of it be when I am deprived of you -- ~d\n Some sort of peace ?”
** What promise. Said I, glad to See her begin to grow a little more calm, having been cruelly vexed to See my boy So roughly treated, what promise, Die
*‘why,
\
[ 46 ]
‘‘ Why replied the coaxing hultey, coming up to me, and throwing her arms round my neck, while her eyes, her dazzling eyes, looked suck things mostyn, you know, my dearesl, you are not to love this wise, and then there can be no children, you know, if you are as indifferent as I would have yod to be, ”
I was afraid to tell her how ridiculous She made herself by that Speech, lest I Should by So doing occasion her relapsing into her former passion— — her, therefore, insfead of Speaking, I endeavoured by>my endearments to turn her thoughts into another channel; but it was with the utmost difficulty I Succeeded.
W hen I was on the point of taking my leave of her, She Said, with a deep Sigh, Well, before we meet again, you will be married. — How Shall I know the day? — Yet I would be ignorant of it, if postible, for ever.^don’t mention it — don’t Speak to her. — But it cannot be concealed — I Shall see it in the papers — I Shall see my rival’s detesled name joined with that which — i’ll tear it in a thousand pieces, as I would the woman herself, who has made you false to me. — But my dear dashwood, added She, again Softening her voice — my belt beloved, charming dashwood, I would not have you think I can ever, after that odious ceremony is past, look upon you as I have done; and may that which gives you to another be ever as unfortunate to her as it musl be to me.”
Thus we parted, and I am to Set out to Grafton house in an hour, not to return till I am bound in indissoluble chains. However, were this Die quite
out
[ 47 ]
%
out of the question, I think I might iland a very good chance to be— — at least.
LETTER XII
From the Same to the Same.
Grafton House
JOY tome, Moftyn — Give me joy. How happy Should I be, how highly Should I relish the congratulations which have been poured in upon me from all quarters during this lasl week, were I not apprehensive of having my present domeslic felicity cruelly interrupted, if not totally destroyed, by the machinations of a woman raging with the pangs of jealousy, and breathing nothing but revenge. My
Lucy is, indeed, everything that I can wish her to be. — Oh! Frank, how clearly do I now See the difference between a mistrefs and a wife. — Would I had never known the former. — Yet I musl pity— —
must feel for her; but I would — forget her, at prefect at least, when every object around me here ■ wears a smiling face, and when my wife appears in the mosl pleasing light. — — She Seems to be the happicst of human creatures. — I thank heaven that file is contented with me. — I am Sure I am far from being contented with myfdf, and fear I never Shall be. We are Strongly preised by Sir Robert to remain with him for Some time. But who do you think Bab has got for a companion to Supply the place of her Sister? Only miss Lewfon. Bab has Somehow managed matters with So much dexterity,
that
[ 48 ]
that while I and Lucy were engaged together She prevailed on lord Charbury to open his heart to her. about this fine girl, who is really too old to be at aboarding fchool. Hislordfhip having exprefledhis embarrassment about her, Bab very generously invited her to come and live with her. My lord jumped at the proposal, and brought her hither before our marriage, because She had never been at a wedding.
Constantia Lewfon is a very fine girl; her person is blooming and attractive; her manners are amiable, and not the less So for the timidity with which they are accompanied. In Short, She looks as II She would be a formidable rival to my arch fisler, who treats her, however, to all appearance, with great asfecsion and esleem. Were I obliged to say who has the most considerable Share of lord charbu ry’s admiration, Constantia, Bab, or my wife, my declaration would certainly be in favour of the lasl of these three Graces, as his lordship always appeared to prefer her to the other two; perhaps politically, to prevent their being jealous. But ] thought 1 observed his prepoffesfion for Lucy befon miss lewsbn came hither. Were Bab ten time handsomer than fly is, and Lucy far less lovely thejatter would still, in my opinion, be the mos alluring, and win the greatest number of hearts from the peculiar gentleness in her manners, no commonly met with in her Sex, by which even he features are rendered more enchanting.
I want, methinks, to know how Die bears the change in my affairs; and am astonished that have heard nothing of her Since mv marriage
^ W' O
No
4
4
[ 49 ]
Nothing Thope, has happened to my dear boy : though I imagine that if poor Ned was not well She would have written to me, or have ordered Else to to send me a line about him. — Would I could persuade her to let me have the child! My mind would then be in a more easy Slate.
LETTER XIII
mis§barbara Grafton to miss Blondel.
YOU found me out, my dear Cecilia, in the two days you past with us after lucy’s marriage. I was not mislrefs enough of myself to conceal from Que sopenetrating, from one who has solong been acquainted with every thought of my heart, the impresiion which this too charming fellow has made upon it: and Since you have discovered what I Should have been glad to have hidden from everybody but him alone who has occasioned my anxiety, I am very desirous of having your Sincere opinion with regard to his opinion concerning me. — As you are soexpert at finding out people’s Secret Sentiments, you will, I hope, be able to guess at what pastes in his heart as well as mine. — don’t be a fraid of Shocking me, but tell me freely, for I have not yet flattered myself with his being in love with me, though I believe I am a sort of a favourite with him — yet I fancy that conslantia will be the girl. There is something in my face and carriage, though I know I am handsomer than her, which does not perfe6tly please him; I am too quick, too lively, and have too much of the flirt
Vol. I. E in
t 50 3
in my appearance, though not in my behaviour t him. He does not like that kind of woman. H allows me to have regular features — I can rea his thoughts about me in his face — a good com plexion, and all that; but miss lewfon’s dove lik eyes, soft Smiles, and melancholy air, please hin more. Befidesj he fancies himself I believe, under Some Sort of tie with regard to her, though h has hitherto talked as little of love to her as he ha to me. He treats me like a real friend, of who! understanding he has a favourable opinion, and h treats her like an amiable young creature. Sh certainly is So — left entirely to his care — Ihcy a! the time, exults in having socharming a protedtoi I am sometimes provoked, I confess, to see ho Small an effet my person has upon the man, wh is in no other respect: an insensible— — /, hav had, and Still have a train of admirers; /, wh could never bring myself to think of any man bu of this one, who cannot think of me, that is in tk light I am Speaking of, for in every other he look upon me, I believe, as I would wish, am I ow sometimes provoked at his indifference— — Seems indeed, to have an unbounded confidence in me and consults me about almost every branch of hi domestic affairs, and never mentions a Syllable witi regard to his inclination for Constantia;; that am, Srequently, induced to think that he feels n other tenderness for her than the tenderness of guardian for a ward, or a brother for a Sister. — She I believe, on the contrary, loves him though Sh looks not as if She was acquainted with her ow feelings on his account. She discovers the greatel
deligh
[ 5> ]
delight at his approach, and a kind of affectionate Sorrow at his absence, while he Shows no emotions either pleasurable or painful about her. I believe (I hope at lead) that I have very much obliged him by inviting this young girl to Stay with me, and She Seems happy in my company, and perfe£lly deli tous of improving herself by the rules which I lay down for her condu6i, all which meet with his approbation. He was rather at a loss, I imagine, to know how to introduce her properly into the world; and as lucy’s marriage gave me a very good opportunity to have her with me, I could manage the affair without being particular.
Lucy is with us, but justt now a little disquieted; her dashwood has eloped a day or two, pleading urgent businefs for his departure, — He has been gone a week. — Lucy, however, has received a letter from him of a comfortable length, which She kisted as rapturously as She would have kisted the dear writer of it himself— — do think married people are Sometimes a little Silly. — Well! I Shall never Swell the catalogue of wedded fools; for I Shall certainly never marry at all.
LETTER XIV
The Honourable Ed Wit RD Dash woo D to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
Racked with die’s Silence, yet dreading
every hour to hear that my boy was Sick or dead, I told my wife I had Some particular bue
2 finefs
I 52 ]
finefs to transact in town, which I had postponed in order to accelerate my marriage.
The excellent creature gave credit to what I fai with her eyes; but those eyes were filled wit tears when I quitted her.
I fiew to die’s lodgings, but — good heaven what an object did I find her! She was raving i bed with a fever : I never saw any poor creatui So delirious. — Conceive my distraction, knowin that my marriage had been the cause of the mifei which I beheld.
I heartily chid the Servants for not having it formed me of her condition; and when I had endeavoured, but in vain, by my endearments, to r Store her senses, and to make her capable of di itinguishing me from those who attend her, I Sei for another physician.
When the Second physician camel feed hii largely, and Untreated him to Spare no pains to r move her disorder, determining to wait the evei by her bedside, to which She begged me evei nioment to come, though I was So near her
My dear little Edward was my only comfort but 1 was afraid to let him Slay in the room will me, lest he Should catch a distemper, which a] peared with such alarming Symptoms.
However, as the physicians declared that tl communication of her distemper was the left i be apprehended from its having been entirely 0( ' cafioned by the extreme anxiety of her min which had violently affected her nerves, I indulged myself in having my Sweet pratler with me.
'I
✓
i
[ s3 1
By the great Skill and care of Dr. -- -- this
poor creature’s reason, in a few hours, returned, but her joy, at feeing me So near her, and at receiving so many proofs of my tenderness and concern, was soexcestive, that it almosl overthrew her intellects again : however we have, at length, removed the Sever; She is, indeed, very weak,
and in a very dejected Slate; but I hope in a few days more to see her in a fair way of being quite recovered. — What pangs have 1 not endured, lesl I Should have occasioned the death of a woman who loves me too tenderly to bear the thoughts of losing me. Yet we ought to separate immediately— — can I apologise for this long absence to my wife? So soon after our marriage too? — But I cannot leave Die till She is Still better than She is, for fear of a relapse. — I have, therefore, written a long letter to Lucy, though I Swear I did not know what to Say. I have Spun out a heap of incoherent words, and can only hope that Jbe, like many other women, will find no fauk with nonsense, when it is the nonsense of love. Lucy, indeed, has an exceeding good understanding, as I have, I believe, told you before; but people very much in love think of the heart of the letter writer more than the head, and will easily pardon all incorrect expreslions, if there is but a number of kind ones. — Lucy, 1 hope, will be of this way of thinking.
You .cannot imagine how much this last proof of my consideration for Die has affected her. It has thrown her into ecstasies, and I don’t know how She will bring herself to part with me again.
E — Could[
[ 1
Cduld fly but get the better of Some little femalities She would now be almost an angel: but jealousy and envy, those corroding pastions, have taken such deep root into her mind within these few months, that She never, I fear, will be able to eradicate them. How eagerly does She Seize every opportunity to ask me questions about the person, temper, and manners of my wife! — She even enters curiously into particuiars, concerning which She ought to discover no cuiiofity; yet it I retufe to gratify it. She charges me with want ot confidence in her, and want of love. I have, I confess, adhered Slridtly to truth in my idescription of my amiable Lucy, and by sodoing have raised the abovementioned passions to such a. height, that She has not only broken out into the most unjust and bitterest inve&iyes against her, but also declared that if I Show any tenderness tor
J
Lucy, I Shall absolutely destroy kevy as She cannot. She Says, exist, if I love any woman except herself; and indeed I believe this declaration proceeds trom her extravagant fondness for me; because I think no woman can possibly dote on a man more than She does on me. — But I must return to my Lucy. — I am always considering about ray removal from hence, but have not yet had courage to break the spell which confines me to this spot— — have, at last, however, prevailed on Die to consent to my departure from her; but I could not soprevail on her, till I had prorhifed to come back again to her soon; till 1 had Sworn not to give my heart to this fine creature, as She calls my wife, by way of contempt. But whenever She
Speaks
[ 55 ]
Speaks of Lucy in So contemptuous a mannner She makes me really angry with her, and forces me to tell her plainly that if She mentions my wife with So much difrefped I will see her no more— — of this kind, too often extorted from me, always produce tears, 6ts, drc.~ — which absolutely unman me, and convert me into a despicabie driveller.,
L E T T E R X V
From the Same to the same.
Grafton House,
WHAT a Striking difference is there between
a mistress and a wife. — Who in his Sober senses would prefer the former to the latter?
With what transports of joy did my excellent 'Lucy receive me? — Yet how chaste, how corrected were her raptures! — No upbradings, no complaints; no murmurs at my long absence expressed, but the highest satisfaction discovered in every feature at my return. — How very enchanting is this tenderness! it Steals imperceptibly into the
soul, and renders one enamoured when one least thinks of being so.
You cannot imagine how She twined herself about my heart by her winning and judicious behaviour. I actually embraced her with ardour iinfelt till that moment, while She received my caresses with a modesty which Showed that She thought herself the person obliged, and looked
upon ray endearments rather as indulgencies than
debts, —
[ s6 ]
debts. — Yet I could not help Sighing and turning my head aside, while I held her in my arms. — I felt myself undeserving of such an angel — I was Senfibly touched. — She imputed my emotions, kindly imputed them to want of health, or to fatigue, and pressed me to take something to make me better.
During my wife’s fond behaviour to me on my return, I plainly perceived that Sir Robert, who idolises his Lucy, his favourite daughter, waj very much offended at my having left her for So long a time So soon after her marriage, and three out Some pretty Strong hints expreslive of hi; difpleasure.
The poor dear girl blushed, trembled, and discovered the greatest anxiety, lest I Should be huh by her father’s behaviour, endeavouring to apologise for me in the prettiest manner imaginable. — I thanked her for exerting herself soSweetly II my favour, by Straining her to my bosom, an( by not Seeming to observe that Sir Robert mean anything particular. — My own father has alf taken an opportunity to talk to me in a ver friendly manner upon this Subjefl:, telling me thai could not frame any reasonable excuse for havinj left sofine a creature So Soon after I became pof fested of her; no excuse, indeed, but the ver worst in the world. Surely he has not heard an' thing very lately concerning Die. — I aftuall Shudder with apprehension. — What a coward ha guilt made of me? — Would I could Summon re solution enough never to see her again! and
belie V
%
M
I 57 1
believe I Should have enough, could 1 but get away my boy from her.
My Lucy, who studies every hour to please me, to k^ve me new pleasure, has proposed our going to the house taken for us in Berkeley Square.
I sancy the good girl is fearful led her father Should Say Something to disgust me; and truly Sir Robert is, I See plainly, a very hot man; extremely apt to fly in a paction upon the mod trifling occasion. He has Said nothing, indeed, at which I, conscious of my own ill condus, can reasonably be affronted; but my wife, who is better acquainted with her father’s temper than I can be, will be better pleased, I believe, to remove me out of his way : though I am certain She will be Sorry to part with Bab, as there has ever been the drilled friendship between them. — «• You may suppose that I invited miss Grafton to go with us; but She excused herself for the present— — see through her excuse; She does not care to leave Charbury. She at fird pretended today in the country on miss lewfon’s account; but that difficulty was soon got over, as Lucy and myfetf both pressed Constantia to be of our party, who immediately received her guardian’s approbation on her applying to him for it. Bab has promised
to bring her young companion to us in less than a fortnight.
D ie will, I suppose, be glad to have me nearer to her; but I Shall be in a disagreeable Situation, in town, as I am afraid I Shall not be able to avoid her as much as I wish to do, -
LET
J -
[ 58 1
LETTER XVI
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
They have all left us but miss lewson,
who is, I fancy, to be trusted to my ^: are till She is married j that is, under the infpe6lion of my lord, who comes almost every day to see us: I Say k, because I hope and believe that I have Some Share in his visits— — I not vain tc Set any part of them down to my account? — But if I may judge from his behaviour to me, I am not thoroughly disagreeable in his eyes; though h gives me no reason to think that I Shall ever b more esteemed by him than I am at present— — Should not be Sorry to accompany that cold wore ejleemed with a Softer one; but I fear I Shall never b able to inspire him with the tender pallion. — Some women now in my Situation would be incliped tc make a little love themselves— — know what ] mean child? — discover their inclination to then by some Stratagem or other. — But I am above al that. — No, Cecilia, as much as I prefer him t( all the men in the world, I detest such mean pro ceedings. — My pride will never fusfer me sofa to degrade myself as to difeover a partiality soa man who Shows not the lead preposteshon in m; favour. However, ^ while I am thus keeping a discreet distance, and Supporting my dignity with! becoming Spirit, i’ll lay any wager that my youn artless friend here carries off her man. — She i
certain!;
t 59 ]
certainly in love with him; ay, and deeply too though She does not seem to know it. — She Sighs when he is absent, and blushes when he is mentioned; nay, whenever he appears She flies to meet him, and dresfes her pretty innocent face in Smiles, which makes it look Still more beautiful. He treats her with all the good nature of a brother; he has not the lead: appearance of a lover; but these Serious, Sober fellows are always aftonishingly Sly : and I sometimes fancy that She will be contented if he behaves to her with ho greater fondness than he does at present, provided he does not difeover more for any other woman.
I leave them frequently alone. — They both, I think, seem pleased with my doing So. — Am I not extremely convenient? I am Sure lord Charbury has reason to be Satisfied with me; and indeed he appears so^ yet he takes care not to make too many acknowledgments; he leaves them to Con slantia, who performs her part admirably, and sometimes overpowers me with her asfefition. However, I am afraid I feel something very like envy and jealousy now and then. — I hate myself for looking on the sweet girl with the eyes of a rival, whom I actually love, nevertheless, because I am certain that in profesiing a regard for me. She Speaks the language of her heart. She pays an implicit obedience to me as well as to my lord. — I am to carry her to Mrs. dashwood’s next week. She will then be introduced, for the first time, to the public diversions; and She will exhibit the prettied little figure that has appeared a great while. — Perhaps She may charm some new object, and
be
$
[ 6o ]
be detached from my lord. — I wish, you may t Sure, to See her detached from him; but I doul my wish will not be soon gratified; for, unlike a other females. She expresses no sort of desire to fe anybody but her dear guardian; to be Seen by an body but by take notice that the word dear added by me. — However, though She does m make use of that pretty monosyllable in my hear ing, I dare say it is always at her tengue’s end and therefore I have, I presume, applied it wit propriety.
To convince you now that these two people have no sort of aversion to each other. — : —
I came upon them unawares yesterday, an found my lord talking earnestly to her with h hand upon her Shoulder, while She looked rath< dejedied; though She every now and then peept up in his face with smiles which sufficiently it formed me that nothing from his lordship’s lij could be disagreeable to her ears.
When I came up to them., this little gir miss Grafton, said he, tapping her cheek, which glowed at bis touch, has no great inclination 1 leave the country, I find.”
“Not to leave you, my lord, ” replied She, wit what/really call a tender smile, while a gent Sigh Softly Stole from her bosom.
This pretty answer actually moved him, I b Sieve; for the dear man is quite good-natured.
With a Second pat upon her blushing cheek taking her hand at the Same time, and preflir it, he Said, “My Sweet constantia, 1 Shall be i town— — country, added he, with a Smile C
mi
[ 6i ]
me, can have no charms, when the amiable in' habitants of these Shades have deserted them.” — ■ He then left us.
Now don’t you think there was Something tender in his carriage? — *to be Sure he treats her in a familiar Style, and like a child; but then he treats her like a child of whom he is fond, and She undoubtediy, believes it her duty to love him. — She has, indeed, nobody elfe to love. — She looks upon me as her friend; but he is htrfriend, relation, lover, everything, I dare swear, in her eyes. Girls of her age are very apt to have fancies — but why do I talk oi her fancies — have I not had enough of my own Since I became acquainted with this man? Yet, though I cannot help thinking of him, I might surely suppress my thoughts; I need not commit them to paper. — But there is a pleasure in talking of him to a bosom friend, Superior to anything I can at present enjoy, except his delightful conversation;; therefore you will be troubled with a great deal more upon this bewitching subject. Adieu.
B. G.
P. S. Mr. ash is returned from Paris, and Still persecutes me with his love. Any woman but me might like Mr. ash : his person is not amjss; his fortune is immense— — if I was pot in a humour to lislen to him before I knew lord char bury, how Should I be inclined to hear his ad drestes now? — And yet I will not absolutely discard him. — I will first try — though I know my trial will be a fruitless one — whether my civil re
Vol. I. F ceptioa
[ 62 1
ception of asli will any way affe6i his lordship. — But Stay — I don’t intend to be married to him, evei if my lord Should be united to Constantia— — you cannot call this coquettry. — Well! if it i I muji make this one experiment. — I hope it ma
*
be reckoned a pardonable attempt, as the objet in view is of somuch consequence to me.
Once more adieu.
LETTER XVII
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to
Sir Francis Mostyn, Bart.
berkley fquare
ON E inconvenience has attended my comin
to town, which I indeed expected. — I ar too near Die. — She will not let me be at peace. she is for ever sending for me, and watching m also, I fancy, as I frequently see her fellow lurl ing about, as if he was employed for that purpose sothat I dare not even come to the window wit my wife, left this devil Should be informed of i • — Yet how laudable is every proof of my ter dernefs to a woman, who sotruly deserves i by making it her whole Study to pteafe northeast Bt Sides, did She not merit it by her unabated atten tlons, is She not mv wife? Have I not Sworn i love and cherish her? Is it not my duty, ai ought it not to be my inclination to keep my oal inviolate?
1 have Seen Die Since I came to town as ofti as 1 could be reasonably expected by her. I hai Settled a handsome annuity on her and her Son o
(
[ 63 ]
of the money my father .alloyed me for the payment of my debts before I married, and I have also discharged the heaviest of fiefs — I cannot do everything at once; and yet She will not be Satisfied, unless I discover not only a dislike, but an absolute disguft to the rnosl amiable creature in the world — my zvife. — I have always taken the greatest care not to mention Mrs. dashwood before her; She is not content with my extreme v terdue in that respect. She is always endeavouring to introduce Something which alludes to ray wife, and then proceeds to find fault with, and cavil at her in a manner beyond endurance. She certainly has her Spies everywhere; for She often informs me of circumrtances with which She could not pofiibly, I think, be acquainted, except She was in the house with me. — Nay I Swear, I believe She can tell exactly how often I kiss my wife; and whenever I attempt by my endearments to put a Stop to Such idle nonsense. She pushes me from her, telling me She can taste lucy’s kisses— — never calls her Mrs. dashwood, or my wife — on my lips. If 1 chide her ever So gently for Such behaviour, or only look displeased without saying a Syllable, She either bursts into a flood of tears, or falls into a fit, out of which She cannot be recovered in Some hours. — When She is in Such a condition I don’t know how to leave her : 1 am, insen fibly induced to Stay with her till She is better, and am very frequently tempted, in hopes of conciliating her to me, to give her anexpensive toy.
Th is disposition of mine, however, drew me into a cursed Scrape the other day : I had bought ■
F 2 So
[ 64 ]
somany things for her Since I had any money purchase them, that I began to be almost ashamt of myself, and to think that my wife had a rig] to Some gallantfies of a Similar kind as well as n miftress, especially as She is much the more qui of the two.
Happening to go into a Shop. to chuse a ring S' Die, I Saw one which might, 1 thought, be acceptable to Lucy, and accordingly purchased coupie. — A gentleman of my acquaintance at th moment coming by, dragged me away with bin and prevented me from going home firsl accordii to my intention. — Being near die’s lodgings wh< we parted, 1 Stepped in, and taking out the rii I had purchased for her, that which I hadbougl for my wife unluckily fell upon the floor. — SI instantly picked it up, and cried, ^ ** What, bayou got two rings for me ?”
** No, replied I — not thinking it necessary f her to have them both at once — putting oh — is what I chose for.
“And for whom is the other Said She, wit] out calling her eyes on the new ornament to h finger — without even thanking me for it.
T'ius tjueilion embarrassed me, I confess not little, — I was weak enough to be afraid of tellii her what I intended to do with it, because I kne that file would resent my discovering any attentic to my wife. I therefore Said, that I had at fii taken the other ring, but not liking it So well; the ring I had jull put on her finger, would can it back again.
“That
9
[ 65 ]
** that’s false, I am Sure, replied She, with uncommon fury in her eyes, tor you bought it for your Lucy. Is this the indifference you would make me believe you feel for her? Oh! how cruelly have I been, how cruelly am I Still deceived; ihe Shall not long enjoy these proofs of your love. — — i’ll let her know what a vile hypocrite you are to us both and then She will be miserable, though not half So wretched as She has made rne : for though you are lo cursed a dissembler, you are as lovely as you are inconstant.”
Such a compliment issuing from So delicious a mouth, and accompanied with a Shower of tears, could not but touch me. — I Strove by every art I
was mailer of to Soothe her mind to peace; but
/
it was all to no purpose. — I could not Succeed. — * She vowed She Should have no resl unless i would give her both the rings, or at least. promise to let my wife have neither of them. — I was LI declare, a great while very, loth to comply with, lo unreasonable a requestbut at lasl was forced to.give up ^ the point,, and to let her have her. own way,, inex presiibly terrified lest Site Should actually, as She had threatened me,, make my dear Lucy acquainted with what I wish for ever to conceal from, her; lest She Should know, to how undeserving a wretch She is married. — What: reason have I not to wish that She may rem.rin ignorant of my unpardonable, dements! — — Never surely. was. there a. more amiable creature.
4
Determined not to Suffer die’s.outrageous beha* viourto divert me from; paying a proper attention to my amiable wife,! lest, her; and,, to avoid any
F farther.’
[ 66 ]
farther budle, left her in posteflion of the two ring — t then flew to the toy shop, though She mac me Swear not to present anything to my Luc] and chose a more valuable and elegant ring f her; and She received it, when I carried it hom with So much Satisfaction sparkling in her eye with Such expressions of gratitude, that I was ove paid for the little proof of my regard for he
With what pleasure did She look .at it! — ho much did She admire it! — How many fine thinj did She Say to me upon the occasiun !- — Oh! ho Severely did I feel my folly in ever beslowtng thought on Die! — In how contemptible a light d She appear to me, compared to my angel, n Lucy! — Pressing my excellent wife to my boson I poured out the tenderesl language, and Smote the Same time by remorse, wept over her love neck. — The dear girl saw my emotions; but f from guesting at the cause of them, believed I h got a cold, and tenderly killing those ungratel eves, which had So often looked with fondnt upon another, wished it was in her power to ma them better— — creature Ir — At that m ment, forgetting Die, forgetting everything b the angel I held in my arms, I gave a loose to n feelings, and never, I swear, found myself sotrii happy.
W e expect Bab and miss Lewfon. If you cor to town, call and look at them. Who knov Moftyn, but that you may bear the prize fro ' Charbury, Adieu.
E.:
L E :
[ «7 ]
L E T T E R XVIII
Mils Grafton to miss Blondel.
WE have been in town above a week,
and engaged perpetually : hurrying from one diversion to another, or else you would have heard from me before. — Yet neither the novelty of the place, nor its gaieties, nor the astiduities of fine fellows crowding round her, have any effect upon conslantia. She sighs, in secret, for Gharbury, who has not yet joined us.
“If constantia’s paltion is a secret, how came you to know it ?”
Pofllbly, I guess at her feelings by my own. However, be that as it will, her indifference to everything about her, her perfedf inattention, her reslleffness, and her frequent reveries, convince me thoroughly that she thinks more on what she has left behind than on what She meets with here j though everything is done to amuse her, and though She has already had a number of admirers. — dashwood and my Sister spare no pains to entertain us, and to give us pleasure: : Seem entirely happy in each other. Lucy, though, I think, not in full health, (perhaps there may be a reason for that) never looked handsomer, never seemed more completely Satisfied. > — dashwood treats her in the most agreeable manner to be imagined. — Were all men like him, no woman would be afraid of matrimony. — Yet, though he
is So affectionately solicitous to pleasc her, a gloom
Sometimes
r
[ 68 ]
Sometimes overspreads his fine face, which makes us fear that he is not well, or that something gives him disquict. My fiiler now and then, though with great tcnderness, ventures to express her anxiety about Ids health : but as her inquiries onl) produce new endearments from him. She is nol profuse of them. She indeed often fears, and 1 believe hopes, that She is mistaken— — wha can make So fensible, So amiable a man. So might] Serious at times? — In Short, men are incomprehensible creatures, and So I will have done witt them. — However, I musl Speak a word or tw( about ash.
ash followed me to town directly; he ha dangled after me ever Since; and 1 am determinei to encourage him, right or wrong, till I see if m i encouragement makes any impression upon Char bury, whom I expest every hour. — If he doe not come Soon, I shall, 1 am certain, be oblige to return with Constantia, who begins to gro\ very restlels. She was exclaiming yesterday again! London with Such violence, and launched ou into Such extravagant praises on the country, ths I told her I fancied She had' left her heart behin her, and muil go down after it..
Her face and neck immediately glowed lik crimson. She hung her. head,, and looked So es tremely Silly, that I almosl pitied her, and y could not help telling her. that if She went on Sigt ing and pining thus, lmusl carry her. to Grafto house for a change of air ^though perhaps, add
I, you had rather go to Elm Park,, child.
« M
[ 69 1
My dear Bab, replied the poor girl, blushing
almost to tears, pray Spare me. — I Shall be very happy with you wherever you are.”
“You would be a great deal happier child. Said I, if lord Charbufy was here i but have a little patience, conslantia; when he is mariied, you may live entirely with his lady.”
“Married! exclaimed She with a still deeper
• I
blush. — Then instantly turning as pale as death, is he going to be married, madam? continued She, and turned her face frorn me to wipe the tears which rushed into her eyes.
“No, Said I; but he undoubtedly w/7/marry : Such a fine young fellow, and So uncommonly Sober for a man of fashion, will not certainly alwaysr live without a wife.”
This speech was on purpose to make her think reasonably about an event, which may posiibly happen, contrary to her wishes: but She is really farther gone than I could have believed; for She could not, without the greatest difficulty, recover herself from the confusion into which my conjectures had thrown her, — She would have left the room, but I detained her. — “Why Sure, child. Said I, you could not be Sorry to See lord Charbury happily married, as you have Such a prodigious esteem for him.”
“Ought I not to esteem him? replied She; has he not been very good to me? and have you not just now Spoken in his praise?”
“Yes, my dear Constantia, Said I, no woman iipon earth can have a higher opinion of a man than I have of lord Charbury.”
“Then
[ ]
** Then I can’t be wrong, answered the flattering girl, with a Simplicity, however, which charmed me, for I am sure you do everything that’s right, ► — I wish I was sure of myself; but I am not Sc blind as not to see my own faults; and I havt honesly enough to own them.”
We Shall see. — I am likely to be put to my trial for if Charbury marries miss lewson I Shall hav( occasion for all my fortitude. — And I believe V will be wanted, if he happens to be as much prejudiced in her favour as She is in his— — hav( got, indeed, two other lovers to comfort us So the present— — one is a gentle thing, gentle a ourselves; the other quite a gay fellow, almost a mad as I am; but neither of them are to my younj friend’s taste. — ?.o — She will certainly die if Sh has not the man on whom She has fettled her af fedlions. — In that cafe, if he Should happen t prefer me, I musl — give him up.
I
%
LETTER XIX
From the Same to the Same.
^ 8 E dear man is come to town. conslanti JL is out of her little wits for joy. — Her jo at the Sight of him was boundless; for She to! him freely how transported She was to See him. i won’t Swear that She made use of that very wor transported;; She flew to him with her fac glowing, and her heart — I am sure— — ar almost threw herself breathless into his arms that is She ran to meet him, and he caught hej
ar
t
[ 71 ]
and kissed her. — She is, my child, miss Grafton, ” Said he, smiling— — thinking, I fuppose, that I looked as if I expe6ted to be noticed in the Sime manner, he approached me with a mode ft air, cave me also a very refpefitful kifs, by way of ex presfing his acknowledgements to me for my care of his darling. — It was quite unnecessary— — I vas not angry. How can cne be angry with sopretty a fellow? — He then Sat down by miss Lew son, and taking her hand in his, Said, “Now tell me, my Constantia, how you like the town ?” “She cannot but like it. Slid I; for She has got two lovers already, and admirers innumerable.”
“No, indeed, miss Grafton, ” replied the blush ing girl.
“Nay, my Constantia, Said my lord, if they are worthy of you, and if you like them —
But I do not like them, my lord, interrupted She eagerly, and I beg that 1 may not be obliged to receive them” — (looking quite frightened) —
“don’t alarm yourself, my dear girl. Said my lord, you never Shall be obliged by me to do anything that is not agreeable to you; but as you will certainly marry, miss Lewfon, if these men are men of merit, and every way Suitable in other respeqis, one of them may, possibly, in time, render himself deserving of your attention.”
“Oh! no, never, indeed, my lord — Pray don’t think So.” —
‘‘ Be composed, my Constantia, replied he, pressing her hand, you may be assured that I will never compel you to see any man of whom you do not approve.” —
I know
t n ]
I know you are all goodness, my lord, She with a look most innocently tender; but I you would also believe that I cannot admit an fers of that nature.”
“How! answered he, Somewhat haslily; \ have you made a resolution never to be marri No — but — pray, my lord— — us talk no i upon this subject just now, ” Said She, covi her face with her hands to hide her confu while he, throwing one arm round her, and ting his other hand on her heart, cried, witl aflredhonate Smile, “Poor dear girl, how flu edare your Spirits; but indeed, these violent e tions would rather induce me to apprehend you were in love with Somebody. — what’s; opinion, my dear miss Bab ?”
In truth he could not have applied to a r improper person, at a more improper time; I was little less agitated than the poor treml girl, who was just ready to own her passion him : but luckily Constantia, who, with all Simplicity, began, I believe, to See that th were going rather too far. Seized the moment w he turned to Speak to me, and left the room.
His iordship then asked me seriously who tl gentlemen hinted at by me were, and whether t had really made any imprestion on miss Lewf young heart.
By these questions he gave me both time courage, as I was not immediately concerned them, to recover from my confusion— — told 1 that sofar from liking either of them. She alw seemed most eagerly to avoid them, and that i
b(
[ 73 3
body whom fly had Seen in London had, io, my opinion, touched her heart.
He was buried in a profound reverie for Some time. — Then, all at once, resuming his former cheerfulness, repeated his thanks to me for the great attention I had Shown to miss Lewfon, who had very much improved, he obligingly said, by copying soamiable an original.
Had 1 been to die, Cecilia, I could not have Suppressed a Sigh at this compliment— — hive looked grave ever Since. I cannot even bear the sight of asli: I purposely encouraged him before, Charbury came to town, in order to see if I could make him jealous by flirting with another man. — • Yet now I can Scarcely be civil to him, but Snatch every opportunity to converse with my lord. —. Shall I tell you what a Silly whim has entered into my wild head? — I fancied that Charbury, by appearing So ready to let conslantia be married to either of her lovers, had no real design upon her himself, and that there might be hopes for me. — How I heat myself for being So credulous. — To be in love is Surely to be very foolish— — who is always wise? — For my part I don’t pretend to bs so.
*
9
/
vol.i. G HE IN
[ 74 ]
L E T T E R XX
The Honourable Edward Dashwood t
Sir Francis Mostyn, Bart.
T Mufl break off mv connestion with Die, wh
H ^ ^
i ever be the consequence. Her behavic .grows every day more insuppcrtable, while t carriage of my wife, my amiable Lucy, hou improves upon me. The latter, dear girl, has bad cold. For two days I insisted upon her kee ing her room, in which I endeavoured to ma her confinement as little irksome as pofilble, a had the, fatisfation to see her infinitely plea with my attentions about her.
She was but just got downstairs when Bab a Constantia expressed a great desire to See Garri in King Richard. — My wife was too obliging to her indisposition deprive them of sohigh an ent tainment of the dramatic kind. — Lord Charbi and I, therefore, with Mr. ash, accompan: them. Before we went, however I made LI promise to wrap up, telling her that as She was old married woman, there was no occasion her to regard her dress.
Indeed, my dear Mr. dashwood, replied i excellent creature, with a Swxet Smile, I thin! had never So much reason as I have at present attend to the Setting off my person to the great advantage, as I wish more than ever to presei the heart of the most amiable of men.”
Accord!
C 75 ]
Accordingly, She appeared at dinner in the mosl elegant undress I ever beheld.
We went early, being sure of a crowded house, and my raatron like Lucy, putting the two girls before her, I placed myself behind her, as well to take care that She did not increase her cold, as to asnst her if She Should not be well. — You may laugh at me if you will; but I could not have Spent an evening more agreeably, had not my apprehensions on her account ditlurbed me. I was very much afraid indeed that the excestive heat of the house, added to the agitation of her paslions, would be prejudicial to her; for She is not yet in a condition to bear much fatigue. I, therefore, as Soon as the play was over, and the crowd a little dispersed, led her carefully to the coach, firsl tying her cloak myself that I might be Sure She was kept warm, till She got home The endearments which I received for my affecfionate astiduities, for my dutiful asiiduities I may Say, over paid me for them.
When I went the next day to make a visit to Die agreeably to my promise, I found her almosl' choked with pasiion, and scarcely able to articulate a Syllable. — I attempted to calm her by taking her in mv arms.
J
Pushing me from her with all her force, ‘‘ Keep off — cried She, with the most provoking disdain— — you will infect me, coming from that tall auk ward creature, whom you call your wife. — Never was there Such a lifeless mawkin. — But Since’ you can make yourself ridiculous enough to be fond of her in public, I have dons with you — ^
G 2. done
[ 76 ]
.done with you for ever. — Yet I think, Mr. Da wood, I aught but in justice to her, though : is such an iusipid thing, to let her know what cursed hypocrite She has married. — Poor worn: She little thinks what a devil She has to d with; as I suppose She would hardly have Sat quietly half leaning on your bosom, rolling large unmeaning eyes, while She Suffered you dandle her like a jointed doll. — Furies Seize he
This address was not, you may imagine, V agreeable to me. — I therefore availed myself her Slopping for want of breath to proceed, aik. her how She came to know all that had paf — “I am very much surprised, however, ad I, at one part of your Speech; for every bi mufl allow my lucy’s person to be very attrj ing, must allow her to have the fincsl eyes in world.”
“Devil, devil 1 — replied She, rising in a r: and coming up to me — Do you think So, a all? — Oh, villain! how you have deceived both!”
Faith! not I; for I love you both extre: ly, ” Said I, alfedling the greatest ccmposure
“Love, monsler! — No, no — Such a b deceitful heart as your’s is incapable of lovt Oh! that I could tear it out — I would — ve* would Stamp it under my feet— — long to tr your soul out.” —
And lb you really think — Said I, Still ap
rently unmoved — that this fury is becoming? ^
that I Shall like you the better for rt, efpeei
w
I
[ 77 1
when it is all for nothing; for you cannot" know' what pasted at the play, as you was not there.”
There you are mistaken, Sir — replied She — I was in one of the green boxes, and saw all that: pasted; saw for the first time this wife of your’s, who is a very insignificant thing, or I Should not have been somuch vexed to see you make such a fufs with her. — 'Had She really been a lovely woman I could not have wondered at it, as every man,, engaged or not, musl be affected at the Sight of beauty; but to make Such a rout about So ordinary a figure— — could hardly believe my eyes; but that I might have all the conviction in my power, I hastened down to the very box door, and saw you lead her out as tenderly as if She had been made of glass. On somebody’s laughing, for you was pretty well Sneered at, for being socareful, about a wife — the reply was — “Oh! she’s breeding.” — Is it thus you have kept your promise, villain I villain !” '
I had hitherto kept my temper, and thought to have continued unmoved; but when I saw her Sink down in an agony, I could hold out no longer. I ran to her, and raifedher in my arms, though I ccnfefs I could not help Smiling at her havingf thought it posilble for me to live with sofine a woman, and have no sort of connexion with her.
Lucy is, indeed, a dear lovely creature: her touch is absolutely enchanting. She gains upon me prodigiously, • I asture you. — I almost forgot Die, while I reflecled upon the treasure I had in my postestion; yet I would not have you think that
. G 3 J am
[ 78 ]
I am of an inconstant difpcsition. — I would, r
be fickle even to the woman who by her somakes herself the most contemptible character to conceived. Her follies will not apologise Sormii — •but my lucy’s Superiority is soStriking, Should be totally blind not to see it; I Should; in the most inexcusable manner not to admi not to adore it. The dear delightful creati is So traniported with my returning love — Oh! I is everything the heart of man can wish. — w1 why am not I worthy of Such an angel? — But return to Die. — She, at length, came to hearse and we patched up a peace : for my compall for her and my affection for my pretty Edwa would not fusfer me to abandon her entirely When you come to be a father, moslyn, you \ know how to feel for me.
LETTER XXL Miss Grafton to Miss Blond el.
YOU cannot imagine how distrested we h;
been. Lord Charbury has had a vio fever. He was seized one night at the opera;
- as he had been invited by my brother and sister be with them while his own house in St. Jame ^ Square is repairing, we had the care of him.
were a good deal alarmed about him; but, co dering our fears and terrors, have nursed him pi ty well. Mrs. dashwood was superintendant,
I a<ted as chief nurse, for poor Constantia was
m
[ 79 ]
much frighted to do anything. She has, indeed, by her faintings and tears plainly discovered that She cannot live without him. I never saw a poor creature soaffected in my life. — I have been very bad myself, but behaved tolerably; at lead, I hope, I kept down every pailion but esteem; though I will own that I Suffered not a little by endeavouring to Stifle many emotions upon the trying occasion. — The dear Sick creature has behaved like an angel, tenderly compaftionating the wretched constantia — wretched She has been indeed — and Showing a respectful friendship form. — For my part — however Strange my declaration may appear — I never have been So happy and somiserable in my life; trembling with terror, almost Sinking with concern, and yet charmed to a degree beyond exprestion at the very great Satisfaction which he discovered at my astiduity and Solicitude about him. I gave him most of his medicines; for constantia was not in a condition to be trusted. I sat by him, read and Sung, to him, when he Seemed to wish to be So amused; and when I had done. Smothered my sorrow, lest he Should be affected with it.
Having read to him a considerable time one’day, I was in hopes that he had fallen asleep at last, and covering my face gave a free vent to my tears.
On a Sudden hearing him Sigh, I opened the curtain in a hurry to see if anything was the matter, quite forgetting my own Situation.
Looking earnestly in my face, a Still deeper Sigh than mine broke from him. He Snatched my hand to his lips, and kisfed it with Such fervour, that I at firsl became quite abashed; but immediately
[ So ]
ately recovering myself,, fearing that he w light headed, ran to fetch the nurse to my affil ance. — Poor dear Charbury! — He recovers no apace, but Seems to have a disorder upon his Sr rits, which will not, I doubt, be easily remove Constantia is almosl dislradited with joy to find hi better, and takes no pains to conceal her affedu for her guardian; an affection which he returns the prettiesl manner imaginable, and for which am not offended with him, though it cuts off £ my hopes for ever.
I had once, I told you, intended to play off A against him. — I made an attempt of that kind, h it was unsuceessfui. — •! am not in a humour f trifling. — Charbury alone has all my heart; b ^ he mufl: not know how deep an impression he h;
made on it. — He goes out of town in a. few da' for the air. Adieu.
LETTER XXII
I
• V
Lord Charbury to the Honourable Ed war
Dash wo o d.
WHAT a violent struggle have I had, n
dear Dafliwood, between compassion ai inclination! — W hat has it not cofl me to tear m Self from the woman of my choice, and to brii myself to give my hand to an amiable young ere ture, who will never be happy 1 too plainly f without me, while my whole heart is devoted the charming Bab. But though fie deserves £ my tenderness I cannot make conslantia wretche
Beso
[ 81 ]'
Before I Saw either of the miss Graftons, t looked upon myself, you know, in Some Sort engaged to Miss Lewfon. Nothing indeed about an alliance between us was ever hinted at by me; but I found that Such an alliance had been earnestly desired both by her father and mine. — I was free you will fav, as I had given no promise. — I was certainly so; but after a few visits which I made to Constantia, visits unavoidable, on her coming immediately under my protection, I found her So pleased with my company. So loth to let me leave her, and sovery eager to engage me to permit her being with me, that I began to entertain thoughts of complying with the wishes of our fathers. On my purchasing Elm Park, you, believing that you Should give me pleasure by sodoing, introduced me to the twm lovely Sisters; and indeed I received Singular pleasure from your introduction. From that introduction, however, I date ail the uneasmess which I at present endure. — Bab Soon appeared in my eyes the mosl desirable woman I had ever Seen. — pleasing in her person, lively, fenlible, accomplislied, and good-natured. She charmed me. With her good nature I was particularly delighted, and She has been improving upon me ever Since. — Had I never known Constantia I Should hope to have rendered myself as agreeable to her as Pe appeared to me : but finding that every time I Saw Constantia her alfections for me increased, I felt myself not Selfish enough, to prefer my oven happiness to hefsj especially as I had no reason to flatter myself with having made the impreftion upon miss Grafton — noc
withstand iiiff
[ 82 ]
withstanding all her politeness— — I had d( on conslantia.* — I could, therefore, only h myself in compiying with Miss 'lewfon’s wisti by giving her the preference to the wcma Should otherwise have chosen. But fond as poor girl was of me — for She discovered her sonefs by numberless little inadvertencies, I co not think of marrying her directly from a boardi school, without the leas introdu6sion into life.
While I was in this Situation, miss Grafton her extreme good nature, encouraged me to form her of the Slate of my affairs with greatest freedom; and when I had unbofor myself, kindly offered to let Miss Lewfon be V kerf as She Should be glad of a young compar to Supply the place of Adrs. dashwood. — She genteely invited my girl before your marriage, t She might have an opportunity of Seeing a C money sonew to her, and of improving herself the company of the people of fashion who V to be present afit. — You may fuppose that proceeding of bab’s did not make me like her I on the contrary her engaging behaviour, bob conslantia and tome, quite won my hear But then poor conslantia’s increasing tender for me, which She discovered by every look gesture, and the melancholy diffused over features whenever 1 neglected her, or took tice of her friend, sotouched me, soexcited pity, that I could not help doing every thin my power to relieve her dislreffed mind. — A gladly did I consent to her acceptance of T dashwood’s and your kind invitation, not w
I
[ 83 1
out hopes that She might see aether men more agreeable to her than myself, and consequently leave me at liberty to follow my own inclination. She has seen same who have very much endeavoured to please her; but She can hardly bear to hear them named. I have both rallied her, and talked seriously to her about her unreasonable antipathies, but to no purpose— — Short, her Sighs, her tears, her tender glances frequently direq; ed to me, her eagerness to fly to me whenever I appear, her regret at leaving me, tho’ for ever So Short a time, are ' indubitable proofs of her tender attachment to me; those proofs and the declaration which She made to me when I urged her to admit lord hillwood’s ad drestes, have rendered it necestary for me to come to some resolution about her, as She has declared that She would rather be my conslantia than a queen.
just at this time my reflections on bab’s charming behaviour towards So unformed, though So amiable a creature, and on her increasing politeness to me, gave me the greatest concern, as I could not even attempt to gain her without making the other unhappy; sointense indeed was my concern upon the occasion, and soSevere was the conflict in my bosom, that I was really thrown into a fever. — During my fusferings under the Shocks which that c^iforder gave to my constitution, I had Still more opportunities to see into the characters of these lovely girls. constantia was indeed sototally opprested by Seeing northeast So ill, that She fell into tremblings and fainting Sits, So that
the
t 84 ]
the dear adorable Bab had very soon the foie ca of me; and She did, indeed, exert herself wi ■uncommon Spirit, I may add, tenderness. — 0 dashwood! I Sometimes flattered myself that S discovered Something more than mere humanity f the poor Suffering object before her, when S thought nobody observed her. — She read to me she even sung to me, as if in pity to my pai and now and then a gentle Sigh escaped from h soft bosom. — Nay once I fav/ her weep; yes, saw tears of compafltion trinkling down her angel countenance. — Gracious G — d! what became me at that intoxicating moment? I forgot that had never professed a passion, the concealment which had half destroyed me. I forgot that Co: Slantia vas almost expiring with her terrors f me; I forgot everything but the enchanting infta when I believed this amiable woman did not beho me with indifference. — Snatching her hand to n .burning lips, I kisfed it with an ardour beyoi expression; and yet She did not Seem angry, bi continued her charming Solicitude about me. was not this encouragement Sufficient, had I bei at liberty to avail myself of it? — I cannot, however, see Constantia languishing, dying and n offer my hand, my heart, to Save her life. — I muf therefore, give up all thoughts of the dear creatui on whom I dote, and marry her who dotes on m I am a fellow of consummate vanity, you wi say; but I have Stated the cafe very fairly, ar with the pen of truth. — As I have soSlated it, hope you will be Slrongly indu ced to pity
your’s, Chars urii
P. £
I
t
{ 1
P. S. I came hither declaredly for the air; but in faq: to be out of the way of temptation— — must, however, make an excursion, I believe, to Some other place, or constantia’s fears will bring her and her bewitching friend to visit me in my retirement.
LETTER XXIIL
Mrs. Dashwood to Miss Blond el.
YOU complain of my long Silence, my dear Cecilia, and lay that I have forgotten you, though you are, at the. Same time, consideratc enough to tell me that you make great allowances for me, as you luppofe me to have many more engagements now I am in London than when I was in the Country: but I do alsure you, my friend, that I chiefly employ myself in Sludying to improve my person and my mind, in hop es of rendering myself more worthy of my dear Mr. dashwood, having the greatest reason in the world to love and esteem a man soperfectly amiable. — On our firsl acquaintance I thought his person very attractive, and his manners exceedingly elegant: but I did not then believe that he would treat me with Such uncommon affection, and give up somuch of his time to me alone.
I have not been very well; but bv mo means
4 ^ ^
ill enough to alarm Mr. Dafliwood, or indeed to confine myself: but his extreme, solicitude obliged me to keep close to my own apartment; and in vol. L H ' order
I
r 86 ]
order to prevent my being tired with the dullne of it from day today, he almost Sliut himself V with me, — He also took somuch pains to ente tain me, and was soattentive to me when I carr abroad again, lest I Should by fatigue, or b ■catching cold, occasion the return of my diforde that I can never Sufficiently repay his tendernel 1. don’t think that there is a happier creatui breathing than I am; and my happiness is entirel owing to my union with this charming man. wifti I could see our dear Bab as happy; but fear She is noti in a way to be soat present— — is undoubtedly attached to lord Charbury, wh looks upon himself, I firmly believe, in poir of honour engaged to miss Lewfon, though nc hound by any promise to her— — easy to fe that Constantia is extravagantly fond of him but from what my dear Mr. Dathwood has drop ped, and from my own observations, I am Strong jy inclined to imagine that he prefers Bab to her However, he is a man of very nice principles : have heard him more than once declare in con verfation that the man who seduced a woman’s af sections, and deserted her afterwards, appear to him the greatest of all villains; and that h' looked on him who could see a good young creature pine herself to death for him, without wishing to relieve her, though not the woman of hu choice, as a man who defer ved the mosl op pro bious names— — me now if you think oui friend can reasonably encourage any hopes. — Sorry as I am to see no prospect of her being fettlec 10 her fatisfa^ion, I own I honour the man who
entertains
[ 87 ]
entertains Such exalted sentiments. Were this the general mode of thinking among the men how many women Would Stafid a fair chance of
being as happy as
Your Sincere friend)
L Dashwood,
PSI had forgot to tell you what a pretty group they made the evening before lord char bury left us to go down to Elm Park to complete his recovery, having been very much out of order, but very well nursed by Bab. — Leas the Sick person, was Seated in an elbow chair, his head was leaning upon his hand; his eyes were fixed languishingly on Bab, w’ho. Sitting near him, at his requesl Singing a pathetic air to him, accompanied by her mandoline. — Conflantia Stood leaning on the back of his chair, with one hand upoa his Shoulder, hanging over him as if Site feared tie Should be too much affected by ‘bab’s rausick. — Mr. dashwood Said he Should like to have them all in a picture; and indeed a masterly painter would have had an opportunity to make a very agreeable one. — I told Bab what he Said when we were alone, and She laughed out at me. — She carries it off very well, but I believe She feels sometimes Sensations extremely painful. — Mr,. dashwood has just sent me in the finesl pair of China jars. — He is continually Sending me Something elegantly useful.
4
H 2 L E TI

[ 83 ]
J
LETTER XXIV
The Koncurable Edward Dash wood to Si
Francis ?v1ostyn, Bart.
%
TH O ugh I could not bring nayself h give up Die entirely, I Staid away long: than usual, because I wanted inclination to gi to her, and because I thought it right to wea: myself from her by degrees. — Could I but get awa 'rny boy, and be certain that She would never oil cover to my wife our connexion, I would qui her this moment for ever. — I fear,, however, tha She will neither let me have my fon, nor gover: her passions as She ought to do. I have receivei a Very threatening letter from her. ~un!ucki! 1 was not at home when the chairman brought it Hopkins forgot to give it to me — purposely, i may be; for all the Servants dote upon their lady 1 have been within an ace of being found out. Would you believe it, mostyn — this devil carrie my boy, my little Edward, to Ranelagh on tl: very night when She knew my wife was to b there, and threw both him and herself sodirest ly in her way, that Site could net well avoid takin notice of the Child, as he is indeed remarkabl beautiful. — I hope She has really done me no mi; chief with my Lucy. — There is not the lea change in her carriage to me; I therefore conclud that Ihe has no suspicions about me; but you ma •be Sure that this malevolent wretch intended to o(
cafion a breach between us j for die loudly bragge
t
[ ^9 1
to me of what She had done; and, in consetluencs of her irritating behaviour, v/e had a very serious and violent quarrel. — She provoked me to make ufeiof the Severed expressions, and I left her highly inflamed with anger. — There was no Suffering Such insolence to pass unrefented. — After all, I do not believe that She will dare to make any considerable discoveries j for I Solemnly Swore that if She did, I never more would see either her or her boy, though my heart ahnosl relented when the Sweet fellow ran after me, and hung by my coat, with his pretty eyes full of tears, begging me to come back to his mama. I Shook him. off, however; I was even cruel enough to threaten the innocent child. — It cut me to the Soul; but I. threatened merely to intimidate his mother,.
&
LETTER XXV
.fc
Mrs. Grafton to miss Blondee.
4
OH, ray Cecilia, what monslero are'men !■ — A few, a very Ikw hours ago, I could have •written a panegyric upon the agreeable wretches, but now I am ready to pen the moult virulent Satire against; them. — You wilt L know be astonished when I tell, that dashwood,. that my brother,, is the man who has thrown me into this satirical humour, who has drawn Such Sharp expreffions from me. — Poor Lucy— — 1, honour,; how I pity her! — though She is not yet unhappy— — either is extravagantly fond of her, or he has the art to make her believe he is. — She does not, indeed, I think, see things as they really are. — After
[ 90 ]
all, they may not be So bad as they appear to me; but they certainly have not a favourable alpect.
A night or two after Charbury left us, pooi Conftaritia was So very low Spirited, that my Sister to divert her melancholy, proposcd going to ra nelagh. Mr. dashwood was pre engaged, or Sh( would rk>t have gone, I believe, on any accoun W'ithcut him...
We had not been there long, when an exceed ing fine woman, elegantly dressed, appeared, ac companied by another,, who Seemed to be ai humble dependant, and who led the loveliest boy ' ever beheld. — The pretty child Soon caught Lucy’ ' eyes,, and atf.rafited them in Such a manner, that after having; mentioned him. Several times to m,
o
and miss Lewfon with great admiration,. She, a last Spoke to him, and begged the favour of i kiss, wihieh was granted with much Seeming prid by her whom I Supposed to be his mother; whil the goodrhumoured little fellow threw his arm round lucy’s neck as She Stooped down to him and looked, valily pleased at being socarested. H was indeed' a Striking figure. Lucy, after havini distinguished him a good deal, while he was frequently brought neanher,. apparently to engage he
attention, aficed the woman who had the care C
*
him, when She talked of carrying him, home whose child he was..
The woman replied, Mr. dashwood’s.”
That answer Startled me, I. confess, though i did not occasion any alteration in lucy’s features who immediately Said,, “Is that, your mama, m dear ?” looking at the charming woman wh kept at a distance, while She Spoke to the child.
6x Ye
- [ 1
Yes, ” Said the little boy.
That reply Seemed to rise no susplcion in Lucy; but I was very difserently afseted by it.
When Mr. dashwood came home in the evening, She told him what a Sweet boy Sne had Seen; addins that his name was dashwood, and alldna:
o
him, with the raoft innocent countenance, if he had any Such relation.
He immediately answered in the negative, though I Saw him change colour, and he inslantly gave a turn to the conversation— — boy is undoubtedly his, my dear; there never was a stronger likeness; a fine made little fellow about four or five years old, with just Such Sparkling and curling hair, and Such a Smiling mouth. — The blooming rogue was quite a rosy cherub: he wore pea green and Silver hussar drefs, with a beaver hat " 'v and feather. — In Short, I thought Lucy would have devoured him, and was forced to call her off, and give her a hint that 1 fancied the woman he was with was not a proper acquaintance for her.
“What makes you fancy So, Said She; — but one of them is excessively handsome.”
The more likely to be of a doubtful character, ” Said I.
Satirical Bab— — my excellent Sister,, Smiling on me — Well, let the women be what they will, the child is a perfect angel in every respect I am Sure.”
Now I do verily believe that this woman is one of dasliwood’s former mislreffes, and that the boy is his child — I Said nothing to Lucy about my
conje^ures^ but watched my Sly brother, and observed
[ 92 ]
Served him to look abashed. — He hung down head all the evening.
I cannot help saying that though I Shall ( tremely pity my Sister, if my fuspicions are V grounded,. I Shall delight in the humiliated appe ance of one of the lord’s of the creation, as tl take So much pleasure in humbling us. — *howev to do justice to dashwood, he is apparently, j from her own confeision, very fond of his wi who well deserves his lovey for She is the belt creatures.
“What a long letter, and not a word ah Charbury? — that is, nothing to the purpose.’* dashwood has had a letter from him. — He ta of leaving the Park, but not of coming to Lc don. — Poor conslantia! I fear I may say a poor Bab! — ash will fare the worse for this. cannot bring myself to use him tolerably. I ha told him again and again that I will never ha him. — Why won’t the man believe me?
t
LETTER XXVI
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to S
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
5 Have received a very penitential letter fro Die, in which she informed me of her beii in a very bad State of health. I was theresoweak enough to go to see her; chiefly indeed went on the poor child’s account, whom I h; Snubbed merely for his good^nature.to his mother
four
[ 93 ]
I found Die really very ill. My child, my Edward, flew to me with Such delight painted in his innocent face, that I thought I Should never be able to Suffer him to leave my arms. — The insinuating mother then came, and with a Supplicating look, while tears rolled from her fine eyes, asked me if I could possibly thus diftress her by my cruel neglect. — I had appeared for sometime quite indifferent to her,
I told her that my behaviour to her would depend entirely upon her discretion, of which I had not Scarcely Seen a Single instance for a considerable time. In Short, She humbled herself So much, and fell sothoroughly in with my humour, that I Spent the the greatest part of the day with her : but I will own notwithstanding, that I never felt more sincere joy than when I returned to my Lucy, who has entirely gained my heart. Never was there a more lovely creature. Her person is Sufficiently inviting to charm, without that enchanting softness of temper, which would conquer the mosl obstinate.
4
Charbury is, I find, not much less embarrasted than myfels. — Between you and I he loves Bab, while constantia dies for him: but I fancy his charity will get the better of his inclination. — I don’t take Bab to be of a nature to fall a victim to a hopeless passion; but I would not answer for her lovely filter in Such a Situation. What care ought I to take of sodear, sogentle a girl. I will be attentive to her, I will be astiduous about her to the utmost of my power. I hardly ever go abroad without purchasing Something for my Lucy, which
will
[ 94 J
will, I think, be agreeable to her, either for t decoration of her person or her apartmen though the former indeed wants nothing to rene it more alluring— — I mul procure 1 bracelets; th®se ornaments are extremely beco ing on fine arms, and hefs are remarkably be tifuh — — I mentioned them the other day to ht She with a smile replied, that if 1 w'oidd fit for) pifiture She Should esleera it round her arm infini ly more than the richest jewels I cculd posti purchase for her. — i you may be Sure I compi with her request. Bab is to give her face to co plete the pair. — I wonder that Die, with all 1 fondness for me, never thought of making me Si a compliment. — But how can I imagine that : Should think like mv amiable wife?
\
LETTER XXVII
Miss Grafton to miss Blondel.
%
Lord Charbury is returned. — conslantia ^ was ready to expire with joy on his arcn During his absence how many sighs were heav how many tears were Shed! — how many times a day did She cry, “When Shall 1 See my d guardian? I wish, miss Grafton, that he was he or that you were with him. — What a vari of amusements would you have contrived for h: I am Sure he mistes your obliging care; and n be, his health may Suffer for want of it.”
Her behaviour nozu, on my lord’s return e barraffes me, and tries me exceedingly. How
[ 95 1
ten does She make me Sigh! — how often does She make me weep! — how often c'oes She make me blush! — 1 luppress my Sighs, 1 conceal my tears, and hide my blushes in the belt; manner I am able. I have not indeed a very difficult talk, for She has not a great deal of penetration, and is besldes, entirely taken up with her guardian. But he is sufficiently penetrating; northeast hears. Sees, and comprehends in a moment. — He looks pale and dispi rited, and is by no means thoroughly recovered; yet the delicate languor which overspreads his face, gives new charms, in my opinion, to it. — ^ const^ntia burst into tears at the Si: ht of him,
W ^
while I dressed my deceitful face in smiles, when I welcomed him to town— — endeavoured, I thought, to keep a greater distance than usual towards us both, but he cannot well keep it up towards her : her fondness breaks out every moment, and a man mull be almost a Stoic, who can refill the advances of Such a fine young creature, advances the mosl innocent, and therefore the mosl captivating. Well acquainted, however, as I am with the purity of her heart, I sometimes think that She dhcovers more fondness than is necestary for a man who has not made any declaration of Ipve; and though She is quite a girl, and though he is, as She says, her guardian, yet as that guar idian is a handsome young fellow, a little retenue Surely ought to be observed— — Should give her Some admonition on this point, did I not feel Something risng in my mind to check me : how indeed can I f.nd fault with her fcr doing what I Should do myfeif, were I not deterred by modeftyl
do
[9^1
« — I do not, ’tis true, run to him, give him i hand, or take Ais, as Jhe does, and look up in 1 face delighted; but I nevertheless discover n
(there’s a discreet word for you) — by pr posing various kinds of remedies or amufemen in order to forward the recovery of his healt and to raise his Spirits; and my proposals are r ceived with a sort of awful respect, which new and not unpleasing. — He was saying yesterda that he believed he wanted exercise, and musl down to the Park again, as he found himself u usually indolent. — I catched up a racket immec ately, which lay on the table, and asked him play at ihittle cock. He instantly complied, ai we played till I, fearing to fatigue him after i illness which had So much lowered him, pretendi weariness, and sat down. He threw himself in a chair, and looked at me in So particular a ma ner — I fancied soat least— — coloured exceflivel He call down his eyes directly, and taking a fe nearer me, prelsed my hand in his; and wh his eyes Spoke, I thought, more intelligibly th his lips. Said, ** I am afraid, Miss Grafton, th ^ you have, from your excessive good nature a
readiness to oblige me, fatigued yourself too muc — Would to h — — n { — continued he, after a liti pause — it were possible for me to to repay, on to attempt to repay the numberless favours I ha received from you! But though I am cruelly d nied that blesting, never will they be a Single m ment forgotten. Thoroughly fensible am I of yo uncommon merit, though I am incapable ot e: pressing my Sentiments concerning it, yet my hea will ever be grateful.”
t 97 ]
Bless me, Cecilia! was not this Speech truly, critical? I protest I was So touched by it, that I was almost ready to betray myself— — at that instant Constantia entered the room.
As he had risen from his seat, and walked from me, taking out his handkerchief. She ran hastily to him, and aflced him if he was not well, and if She Should fetch him anything. — 'In Short, She hung about him in Such a manner, that he was really obliged to say Something civil to her.
Forcing therefore a smile, he told her that nothing at all was the matter — forcing a smile, I say, because he certainly looked very much affected
•f J
before. Fearing that I Should discover improper
emotions, I Soon afterwards left them together.
When I came down again, I fpund him turning
oyer the leaves of a book, as if hd had taken it up
merely for want of something to fay— — Lew
Son flood at a little distance from him, looking at
him, as if She had been crying.
He laid down the volume as Soon as I entered,
and attempted to enter into conversation, though
he Seemed at a loss for words — extremely difcon
•/
certed indeed. Mr. dashwood came in soon afterwards, and I went up flairs. Conflantia followed me; and before I could altc her the cause of her unusual feriousness, told me lord charbury.had been saying somuch in favour of lord Hillwood, that She was quite unhappy. — “I neyer thought — added She, bursting into tears — that my guardian would have wished to make me miserable;; lord Hillwood is the person to blame, who tease him soabout me. — 1 would not have Such a man
noon nrrmint wvmtfver
I p.s. 3
I had but just time to tell her that I was fui lord Charbury would not oblige her to any thii She did not like, when her maid Sally came an asked her if She would please to dress— — was n( cefiary for her to dress, in order to be ready f( dinner— — is as necestary for me now to lay dow my pen.
'/
In Continuation.
W E all met at dinner. Lord Charbury vrj pensive and respectful; constantia ready to cr^ With a not much lighter heart than either of they had, I believe, I endeavoured to entertain they V both.
While we were taking our coffee, lord Charbur informed us of his intention to return to the Par the next morning, and afk^d my Sister if he Shoul carry any message for us to grafton house.
Constantia changed colour, and seemed extreme iy restless: I fancied She wanted to be be alon with him. — My Sister expecting company I wa following her into the drawing-room, ‘‘ Are yoi going to leave us, madam? — said he to me, witi a constrained smile— — you not be sogood a to stay and hear me promise Miss Lewfon never ti persuade her any more to receive Lord Hillwood whose visits I had only encouraged in confequenc( of his repeated entreaties, and because I though him a very amiable man.”
“It is not always in our power, my lord, replied I, to like the mofl deserving people.”
‘‘ No— — he, with a half fuppreftec
Sigh — I see it is not: but as I have made this declaration
[ 99 ]
claration to miss Lewfon before you, miss Grafton, ^ She will, I hope, be quite easy, as I am not capable of breaking my word.”
The servant that moment opening the door to let us know that my Sister would be glad of our company, my lord bade us adieu.
Conftantiaran to him just as he was leaving the room, and taking his hand, which She put to her Ups, wetting it at the same time with her tears, and thanked him, in broken accents, for his con fideriition for her.
Any man who had felt the least inclination for her, any man of common gallantry; in Short, any other man would have kissed her hand in return; but he did not even press it, and he looked, I thought more embarrassed than She did. Bowing respectfully to me, he left the room.
I am not able to know what to make of this behaviour; but it is hot, I think, very favourable to poor Constantia— — for me — I am out of the
question.
LETTER XXVIII
From the same to the fame..
OH, my Cecilia! all my hopes are for ever
at an end. Constantia has been dying, actually dying for Lord Charbury. She was taken ill on the night he left us, and we were obliged in the morning to send for a physician. The company going away early. She complained of the headache, and retired to her own room : there fne re
H 2] mained
[ 100 3
mained, not chusing to come down to Supper, went up to know what was the matter, thougf guessed that She was only asfedled with my lor departure.
I found her, as I expected, with her fpii violently agitated. When I urged her to acqua me with the cause of her flutter. She replied, 1 with great reludfance, that her head was woi and that She would go to bed.
After having proposed various remedies, bui vain, as She retused to take anything, I left w th Sally. I even thought that She wanted gone, though She Seemed to be not in the leasl pleased with me. I called in again before I V to bed, and Sally told me that She believed was afleep.~i fancied, indeed, I heard her but imagined She only fretted about my lord’s away; I also imagined that She would be bt by herself, as She might not chuse to let any t see how much She was distrested at his absei desiring Sally, therefore, to call me if her was ill, I retired to my own apartment, the as little inclined to rest as Constantia was.
In the morning Sally tapped at my door, begged to speak with me; I bade Molly let hei and She told me that miss Lewfon was much wc in a high fever. She feared.
I rose immediately, and found her excefli disordered; quite delirious indeed, repeating charbury’s name, and calling upon him nc leave her, but to Save her from the miserj
was in.
M
[ loi ]
Misery, my dear conslantia — Said I — what afflifts you somuch? We will send, and let my lord know how III you are, as I dare say he is not yet got to Eim Park : but, in the mean time, you mull tell me what makes you sovery uneasy.”
« Oh! replied She — he has left me for ever;
I Shall never see him again.”
I Was Startled, I confess, at this exclamation, though I looked upon her in the light of a lunatic, and told her to make herself composed; that I believed She was mistaken. — “But Supposing he is gone, my dear, added I, ’tis Strange that you Should imagine he will not See you again.”
Oh' — no — no — cried She — he will never be anything to me : another will have that dear heart, that charming person, and I — must die — with de fp a ir.”
I was, I own, extremely surpriz ed at this Speech. — ILIAD no doubt with regard to the sentiments of the speaker; but I thought they were delivered with a calmness rarely to be met with in delirious people. I therefore began to suspect her of having feigned herself worse than She was, in order to discover her palllon, which She would have been ashamed to reveal in any other way : but I
wronged her; poor thing 1 She was not in her senses.
The physician declaring it to be his opinion that Something lay upon her mind, advised us to send for lord Charbury.
Mr. dashwood then — for I had informed both him and my Sister of her condition, not chusing to do any thintc about her of mv own head — Mr.
[ 102 ]
X
dashwood then wrote a line to let him know that miss Lewfon was dangerously ill, and that She had called upon him incestantly.
When the servant whom he had dispatched with his letter, arrived at Elm Park, he was informed that my lord had not been there for sometime, and could not in two days procure any intelligence about his lordship— — lord, indeed, went down to Windsor with the gentleman ai whose house he supped, on the night conslantij was taken ill.
During cur fruitless inquiries after him She cam to her senses; but was weak, low, and dejected and looked as if Something very disagreeable la] on her mind, which She did not know how to re veal; and, without the removal of her uneasinefs nothing, the doctor declared, could be done Our bufiness, therefore, was to make her Speal ss freely when in her senses, as She had done whei deprived of them. — This business I took upo] myself, and She naturally enough turned the con versation upon the very subject on which I wante her to enlarge, by asking if her guardian kne\ She was ill, and where he was.
After having Suffered her to repeat her inquiries three or four times, I told her that I wa Sure Lord Charbury was the cause of her illnef though innocently so. —
“Is he not going to be married ?” said she colouring like Scarlet; and, hiding, her face wit her handkerchief, would have been extremes glad to have retracted what she had said“
“to my knowledge, my dear — replied i but why are you So uneasy about his mat
[ 103 1
rying? Have you any reason to imagine that he
ever had any thoughts of marrying you K“
“! no — no — cried She eagerly, and trembling all over — that’s the thing” —
A deeper blush covered her face and neck. — Clasping her hands together, and bursting into tears. She exclaimed, But what have I Said? — He will now hate me — He will despise me — Oh! mils Grafton, pity me — and Save me from his anger — Save me, if you can, from what would be worse to me than his anger — his contempt.”
“Is it postible, my dear — said I, pitying her excestively — for Siich a man as Charbury to hate you for loving him, to be angry with you for wisliing to be bis.^’
“No — idut ’tis soindelicate fora girl to mention Such an affair sirsl, you know. besides, if he is
engaged- -- I miss Grafton what will become
of me? Indeed I almosl wish I was dead.”
“But why, my dear miss lewsbn — answered I — Should you fancy he is engaged? How came that into your head?. And who is the lady ?”
thislasl; interrogation proceeded, I am afraid, as much from curiosity as compastion.
After a Number of Sighs and tears, after a multitude of excuses, She confesfed that She had loved lord Charbury ever Since She had been under his care, and had Strove as much as She could, modesl ly, to express her very great esleem and affection for him. “He has ever, indeed — continued She > — treated me with the highest regard, but I have never discovered in him any Signs of inclination for me j and he has proved his indifference too plainly by soearnestly persuading me to accept of lord
[ 104 ]
Hillwood, whom he encouraged to try to pleafi me. By So doing he gave me somuch uneafinefi that it was not in my power to conceal if totally from my maid Sally, who, in retilrn for a confidence improperly placed, abruptly told me thai She supposed he wanted to see me fettled first, as he was going to be married to a lady in that country, whose name She did not know; bul file added, that She was sure of it, because my lord’s man had communicated the news to her. — That news, and my lord’s coldness together, have thrown my mind into so distracted a Slate, that 1 cannot possibly say when 1 Shall be reslored to the tranquillity which I once enjoyed.”
When 1 had heard her out, and it was sometime before She had finished her confejjion^ as she received interruptions from Shame and grief I begged her to compose herself, and promised tc found my lord about this marriage, of which however, I did not believe a Syllable. — Hardly had She earneslly conjured me not to expose hei to him, when I heard of his arrival.
I had now, you will readily allow I fancy, j difficult part to play, especially as I was not les; attached, I will honeslly own, to lord Charbur\ than this poor young creature. — I determined tc make him Sufficiently Sensible, to the utmosl oi my power, of her Sufferings on his account, tc make him desirous of relieving them. There was much delicacy as ' well as fortitude requirec in the management of Such an affair. My firsl busmess was to arm her with proper refolutionj that She might bring herself to bear the sight of him; for She fell into Such a violent tremor as Soon
[ I 3
as She heard he was below, that I was exceedingly
alarmed for her. ' ^
When he entered the room, She held my hand So Saft, entreating me not to leave her, that, though I had designed to Slip away, I could not postibly do So at first. Fortunately for me, I am not, I dare Say, Siifpected by her of having Sentiments Similar to her own.
At the entrance of his lordship, a Smile of Satisfaction rose in his face at the sight of me, and he made a little compliment for my care of miss Lewfon.
When he advanced towards the bedside, I quitted my chair, forcibly drawing my hand from conslantia to give him room to Sit by her. — ■he Seized both my hands, prested them gently, and would have replaced me; but I hastily broke from him, and left the chamber.
In a Short time he came down to the parlour in which I waited. — With a Serious air I immediately asked him how he had found her.
“Very ill — said he — but I am greatly indebted to you, miss Grafton, for your exceeding kind attention to her; an attention — continued he, with a Sigh — never to be repaid, I fear, either by her or by me.”
Summoning up at once all my fortitude, I replied, ‘‘ By your asfectionate attentions alone, my lord, can this poor girl be reslored. — She loves you, my lord; loves you extremely; and the fear of not feeing you equally attached to her. Strengthened by a report of your going to be married to a lady in the country, has
thrown
[ io ]
thrown her into this melancholy Situation, i which nothing but a return of tenderness equi to that She feels for you, will administer rein to her— — cannot refuse your tenderness, think, when you rest upon the agreeableness » her person, the gentleness of her manners, and tl virtues of her heart; to say nothing of what Hi endured before her delicacy would permit her to d
vulge the secret which I prested her, most earnesll to disclose.
Here I Stopped, waiting to See what esfe(0t n Speech had on him, as well as to relieve mysel for I really was sopained by my own feeling and felt sodeeply for the charnrsing fellow to who I had been Speaking, that I was hardly in a cone tion to articulate another Syllable.
Lifting up his hands and eyes, he Said, foftl
What will become of me!” Then turning me, with a sorrow painted in his countenant which pierced my heart, “How, madam! is possible that miss lewfon’s recovery can depe: upon me? — or that my marriage could somu disquiet her? — But how came She to listen to fu a falsehood? — I never yet addrested any woman’’ .(Sighing).
“Make your first addrestes then to this d girl, my lord — Said I, recovering my Speech wi an astonishing facility— — cannot be insenfil to youth, beauty, and innocence, soSweetly coi bined; to a heart which is almost broke on yt account, and which will make you happier th any other woman’s, because its gratitude will equal to its love.”
“Charmi
[ 107 ]
“Charming pleader!” I heard him say Softly. > — Those two words in the voice and manner they were delivered, affected me to a violent degree, having the greatest reason in the world to believe that if this poor love lick girl had not come in his way, I Should have Stood a very fair chance to be particularly distinguished by him; and the impossibility — Strong improbability at leasl — of my ever being his drew tears from my eyes. — However, I resolved to continue my pleadings in miss lewfon’s favour with all the powers I was mistress of: yet I could not sofar conquer my emotions, but that my lord perceived them.
I had thrown myself into a chair, and taken out my handkerchief to dry my eyes.
After having looked very attentively at me, he Said, “How, madam! you weep. — Is miss Lew son then sodear to you as to occasion somuch amiable concern? and Shall I, whose duty it is to contribute to her happiness as far as I am able. Shall I refuse?? my indifference bring tears from the finest eyes. Sighs from the most valuable heart in the world? — No — dear miss grafton continued he, taking my hand between his — I cannot, believe me, I cannot deny you anything. — I will be the husband of your young friend Since you desire it. — But I mult be — Oh! H — ns! — added he, checking himself, and turning from me — why, why am I not permitted to Speak ?”
Here a Silence ensued for Some time, — Both of us were, I believe. Sufficiently agitated.
I, recovering firsr, thanked him in the Strongest terms I could think of for his sotenderly compas
fionating
[ io ]i
fionating conslantia’s Situation, and having beggi him to accelerate the execution of his intentio on her account, hurried out of the room, not da ing to trusl myielf a moment longer with him. shutting myself up in my chamber I gave a fn vent to my tears, which a good deal relieved me. then washing my face, and endeavouring to d vert my thoughts as much as possible from the ol jet which engrosted them, by employing mys about twenty trifles, I ventured into Conftantij room.
I found my lord Sitting by her bedside, wi her hand in his. I Smiled upon him, to encouraj him to go on; but I Smiled like those people wl ' Sometimes put on'plea Sant looks, after having doi Something which they thought right, but in dbii *, which they acted against inclination.
My lord told her what a valuable friend II She postessed in me, and She declaring how mu She esteemed me, they both Sung my praif till I grew heartily sick of hearing them, as th were to no purpose. I therefore left them. IV lord Staid but a few minutes after me. He e quired, I was told, for Mr. dashwood. Upi hearing that he was nrt within, he came into ti parlour to me.' — “I have obeyed your commam madam — Said he — I have done all that you r quired of me. — Be pleased to confirm my promi to your young friend to be her's. — I am obliged go to Elm Park for a few days; when I return, Shall return hoping to find mils Lewfon better. — heartfelt Sigh followed those words. — He th bowed respectfully, and left the room.'"
I look
[ 109 ]
I looked after him, for he went out of the house immediately, till I could see him no longer. — When I went back to consiantia., She appeared to me as wild with her joy, as She had been before with her grief. — From what fly told me about my lord, I found he had behaved very nobly, in declaring that he would do everything in his power to make her happy. — But this declaration sounexpected and sopleasing, has put her into such a flutter, that She will not, I believe, be well in a great while. — I am very ill just at this moment -- I must lay down ray pen.
r
LETTER XXIX
Lord Charbury to Mr. Dashwood.
I Endeavoured to get a Sight of you before you left London, but my attempts to see you were unsuccessful— — have, doubtless, been informed of my proceeding with regard to con ftantia; but you do not know, you cannot conceive what I suffered, before I could bring myself to make So considerable a Sacrifice. I had, indeed, resolved before to offer myself to her; but the looks and behaviour of miss Grafton, charming beyond expression, on my returning to town, kept me wavering; especially as I hoped from lord hillwood’s continued attentions to miss lewson, that he might in time bring her to listen to him. — In consequence of another letter which he Sent to me, in which he earnestly entreated me to do everything in my power to Soften her in his favour, I again interceded for him with all the eloquence I
[ no 1
• was master of, but in vain. — •! was, I confess, diiconcerted by the behaviour of Conilantia, tl vl determined to leave London, till I found myl more inclined to mahe an offer, on which I nei thought but with 'the greatest uneaffnefs; and, amuse ray mind, accepted of an invitation, from .agreeable party, to go to Windsor.
At Windsor I received letter which!
formed me of conslantia’s dangerous Situation, (hastened to her. The first object that Struck r eyes wa the dear., lovely, enchanting Bab; i was Sitting by. the poor Sick girl, and endeavouri to comfort her. I would have detained her in t room— — then knowing the, cause of miss Le ton’s disorder, who Spoke of miss Grafton in t most affeq: ionate terms. — By speaking of her these terms, She gave me the highest opinion of t goodness of her heart, and at the same time ma •me but too fensible that had miss Lewfon not be So much attached to me, I Should never be able
i * • •.
.make an impreffion.upcn miss Grafton, as her e
.ceffive fondness for a girl, who had evidently
particular regard form, proved her to be entire free from envy or jealousy, those common attenants upon a tender paslion. My fears were CC firmed immediately by miss grafton’s telling rr as Soon as we were by ourselves, that constanti illness was occasioned by the report of my goi; to marry a lady in the country. When She h fet her friend out in the most amiable light. Si entreated me; yes, weeping, entreated me to ma her happy. — Oh! dashwood you cannot concei what I felt at So touching a Sight — rit melted n soul, but mortified me allb in the highesl degre
I h:
[ I T I' J
had' once hoped that the charming Greature would not have viewed me with so‘much indifference as to be able to plead So very warmly for her rival. — Yet who could rcsuse the adorable miss Grafton anything? I yielded, therefore, I may Say, more to oblige her than the almost; expiring conslantia. — And I do not yet believe, in Spite of all my resolves to make her mine,, that I could have ever So far overcome my passion for Bab, had I not been So entirely convinced of her dislike to me as a lover.. But though I never must dare to lock upon her with the tenderness I wish to indulge, I felt a kind of melancholy fatis fastion in yielding myself up a willing vistim to her pleasure.. The Sacrifice, however, cost me somuch that I could not bring myself to remain any longer upon the Spot. I hurried down to this place to recover myself a little; but the sight of a place in which 1 have So often beheld, sooften conversed with the too lovely miss Grafton, has caused num berless Sighs to burst from my over charged heart; Yet to what end do 1 complain! — I have promised to make a poor creature happy, whose exljience almost depends upon me'., and had She been indifferent to me, or had I resolved not to marry, Bab,, I see plainly, would never have been mine. — She
is, I believe firmly, my friend; but She reserves for Some happier man, her love. — I was too presumptuous indeed in hoping for her love; but I must for ever regret my want of merit to deserve
it. — Mr. Ash will, I fancy, at length make her Sensible both of love and friendship— — he really be as amiable as he appears to be, for her dear sake.
■%
[ II ]
LETTER XXX
miss Grafton to miss Blondel.
I Have not been well, ray dear; and I have this moment a disorder, which I never h before : they call it a nervous fever. Do y know that I don’t like the name? — It is fufficic itielf to lower my Spirits. — Condantia, who better, but by no means well, has exprested t greatest concern for me; and lord Charbury, w has been here these two days, discovers an hnxif about me, which would give me the highest pli Sure, were he not destined to marry miss Lewfi asli is perpetually here; he has. Somehow, C trived to ingratiate himself with dashwood, who on a Sudden, become his friend; I am theref exposed to the tiresome repetition of his love i his solicitude.
How enchantingly does this amiable Charbi behave to constantia, who is very weak and lo — She is ordered into the air, that her recov may be completed; and in a few days we SI leave London.
My lord Seems more eager for my going into country than for miss lewfon’s, — “You h: hurt yourself — Said he to me the other day — too close an attendance on your young friend: me entreat you to take more care of yourfelf. know that what I say, miss Grafton — added with a Sigh — will have no weight with you; for ash’s Sake, who adores you, preserve a life very valuable.”
I for
\
[■ 113 ]
I forced'a smile into my face — You think then, my lord — replied I — that I ought to take care of myself for Mr. ash: upon ray word he is much obliged to you; but I cannot say that I see the necessity of it.”
You do not love him then? — Said he,, eagerly — though he has. So much merit.”
Indeed, my lord — answered I, .rather dlspleased at the interrogation — I have never once thought about it.” — He then repeated Something to himself,. softly, which I could not hear..
constantia, who has no joy but in the company of her dear lord Charbury, Sighs, I believe, to return to grafton house,, where She can see him with fewer interruptions, while I almost willi was anywhere but here. — I Sometimes wish, in
J
deed, that I. was out of the world.
LD T T E R XXXI
The Honourable edward Dashwood to Sir
Francis mostyn, Bart,
X
This woman will make me absolutely mad: : She haunts me wherever I go.
. Lucy proposed to miss Lewfon and miss Grafton to go to Ranelagh lasl. night, as they were, to leave London tomorrow, and I desired to be of their party. — You would have thought us, judging from appearances, four of the happiest people in the universe.
Happening to turn my head to Show Lucy a remarkable person, I Saw my boy,, my Edward, running upto me, and calling out, ‘‘ Papa —
T ^ T I ^ ^
[ II ]
Papa 1” ^ — Never — no never in my whole life w I lb thunder slruck; that voice, which used to 1 the sweetesl of all voices to my ears, was thi most unwelcome to them. — Shocked to death It my wife Should observe the little — what was I g ing to call him? — Nothing surely was ever mo innocent, more lovely. — But I Say, alarmed beyoi expression, lesl She Should take notice of the fon the ill timed appellation — I Strove at firsl, by e deavouring to engage her attention to ward osf t' blow, which the malicious Die had levelled agaii my peace — The poor boy, finding himself disr garded, or being Spurred on by his diabolical m there, repeated the words, “Papa! — papa !” ■ Then, enraged to a violent degree, I turned, ai frowned at him in Such a manner, that the pc( little child trembled with fear, and ran awi crying.
My wife, at that instant, looking behind hf Said, Oh! there is that Sweet boy of whom I Spo to you, whose name they told me was dashwoc — Do you know him ?”
“His name is not dashwocd, I know, — tha all, replied I, with a Sharper tone than 1 had e yet Spoke to her. — But why do you take notice Such an insignificant child, when there are So raa more agreeable objects to attract your attention.'
Indeed — replied She, blushing, and look!
#
full of the most winning humility — I thought hi the loveliest boy 1 had ever seen; but if you doi thipk him So, Mr. Dafhwood” — continued lli calling down her sweet eyes, as if reproved by me dear, dear girl, how I at that moment doted on I for admiring my own little Edward! — how severe[
[ 1
I condemned myself for having frighted the poor child away, and for having Spoken So harshly to my Wife !* — The former I could not Soothe at that time, though my heart yearned to do it; but I tenderly prested the hand of the latter, by way of making her amends, and whispered Softly, “I am glad my dearesl girl is sofond of children; She will then, I hope, bear the unavoidable inconveniences with which they are Sometimes accompanied, the better. — But come, we have lost our company, added I, taking her with me, in order to Search for our friends, who were just before us, encompasted by the crowd — a crowd, however, which I dread -- ed to mix with, lest I might encounter Bellers, who could not be far off, I luppofed. — In Short, I was in a State of mind not to be described; I impatiently wished to be at home,, but I dared not to discover any Such inclination, fearing that the particularity of my conduct Should render me fus pefted. — Had it not been for that apprehension, I would have gone instantly to die’s lodgings, and waited her coming, that I might upbraid her for the insolence of her behaviour. — Yet I considered afterwards,, that She possibly had not designedly occasioned what had happened, and that her appearance at Ranelagh that evening might have been quite accidental — (though She can’t hinder the child from knowing me, he might certainly be kept from running after me) — When I, refleaed too upon the joy which Shone in my boy’s dear, innocent face at the Sight of me, and on the eagerness with which his little feet hurried after me, I looked upon myself as a monster, for feeling the Slightest dislike to him, and Still more culpable for drivins’', '
[ ]
from me a child soevery way engaging a CL whom So many people would be transported own.
As Soon as breakfasl was over the next morni
4
I flew to Die, almosl breathless with anger — northeast was 1 So angry in my life — and afkedher, whei could get out my words, what She meant by Send her boy to call after me at Ranelagh, only to exp
me to my wife, and in public, too.,
“I sent him to you on. purpose— — 1 with a disdainful air — and if you imagine you w exposed by being known to be the, father of lovely a boy, you are unworthy of him — (rii with pasiion): — but know. Sir, I glory in being mother, and cannot be better pleased than to h your wife know that he youfsa
“s’death; — cried I, not being able to coni
%
myself — what pleasure can you take in makin valuable and innocent woman uneasy, and youi the talk of the whole town
“Valuable — innocent — replied She, repeal those words with a Sneer — I hate and detest the more for being thought soby you.' — I hate wcrse than death itself; I envy her too the pof Sion of the only man lever loved; I could I her in a thousand pieces (Stamping) — And as my character— — She, bursting into tears was gone, lost, for ever lost, before I knew yoi. I am of no value — ■! have no innocence to boas — and therefore you Scorn me, you despise me.'
Here her tears Streamed fast, and her voice ' melted to Such a degree, doubtless by the reflect: which arose in her on her past life — (perhaps She'thought that but for me She might have been
[ 117 ]
%
more respe6table Situation) — that I went and sat down by her, and taking her hand in mine. Said,
Indeed you wrong me; I never despifed you, and would you but keep within the bounds of discretion., you Should have no reason to complain of me.”
“Did I not behave with discretion — interrupted she eagerly — till you left me to marry this woman, this devil, I believe, who has bewitched you Sroin me ?”
“Now — replied I — yon are flying out again. — You well know that I married her entirely in obe. dience to the positive commands of my father, that I might retrieve my affairs. — I had not even Seen my wife when I consented— — therefore, wrong me by accusmg me of a desire to leave you. — I never wished to desert you; nor Should I ever have taken a wife, had I not been forced into matrimony even to provide for you; and certainly as I am married to a woman every way amiable, the least I can do is to. preserve some decency, and not to give her any reason to suspect me — not to give her any uneasinels.”
■. ‘‘ Aye — now I see what has put you into such,
a passion with me — replied She — you actually love this creature: She has somehow wheedled you to be fond of her; for I am. Sure there is nothing in her person,. which is, to the lafl degree,, contemptible — But men — O what deceitful villains they are! — they will leave the mosl perfect beauty — ■ (leering at herself in the glass— — the mofl frightful, disasreeable creature that nature ever formed, for variety: could I new make myself, though I changed for the worse, I might hope to be as well
loved as that Seducing ugly devil is.”
f
[ ii ]
I Shall not Slay to hear Such undeserved epithets beslowed upon my wife — Said I — therefore if you expect ever to see me again, you mud alter your Style.”
You may do as you please, dashwood — replied She — but I swear then you Shall never see your child more. — Come away, Sir, this moment — for the boy Stood between my knees. — I had been trying to make him amends by my careltes, for the harsh looks I gave him the evening before, poor dear fellow!
i Suffered him to obey his mother, and then rose up to go. — She had no mind, I perceived, to part with me. — The child drew back from me with lingering Steps, Staring at us both. — What an improper scene to be exhibited even before Such an infant t
just as I got to the door. She came aster me, and with her eyes almosl blinded with her tears,. Said, *lstay, dashwood; can you. So easily resolve to give up both me'and your poor little Ned, your own Sweet picture, far more like you than that which your wife wears on her arm — I know all, you see — though you, like a disfembling villain, endeavoured to conceal it from me — (Sobbing behind her handkerchief)’ — I am hire / was never blesl enough to have your picture,, and now I am to be for ever deprived of the original. — Oh! what misery am I destined to endure! — I cannot Support. it — but death is preferable to life in Such a Situation.” —
Here She would have fallen on the floor, had I not held her up, and carried her to a sopha, on which She soon recovered from her fainting; but
[ II ]
declared that if I was absolutely determined to lee her no more, She would put an end to her existence that moment: talking, by fits, in So incoherent, So distra6ted a manner, that I really began to be apprehensive of her offering violence to herself; and not caring to have htr murder added to my other Sins, I Strove to quiet her to make her calm; to make her reasonable.
Looking at me with a tender languishment in her fine eyes, and throwing her arm on my Shoulder — “Oh, dashwood! — said She — if you knew the torment I Suffer you would pity nie, in Spite of all which this cursed woman does to ruin me.”
“Again? — Said I — Have I not just told you that I will not hear my wife mentioned in fucli
language ?”
“don’t diftradl me — cried She, rising, and
walking from me — for by H -- -- -- n if you do, I
will not answer for myself. I will destroy you — your hated wife — my child — myself, and all the world.” — (tearing her handkerchief) —
1 again made towards the door. — Ned ran after me. — She then cried, “Ay, go, go, and try if you can Soften your inhuman father.”
“I do not deserve that epithet — said i_nor
will I ever deserve it — if you will but behave like a rational being.”
“What mufti do ?” replied She,, weeping afresh. — Then finking Suddenly down at my feet. She grasped my knees, saying ^ I dashwood, do not, do not abandon me quite; I cannot bear it. — Oh 1 turn and tell me that you forgive me, and 1 will be calm — indeed I will.”
Who[
[ ]■
Who can resift a weeping, kneeling beauty? — I' raised her tenderly from the floor, prested hei onge more to my bosom, and told her if She woiih
promise to keep herself more retired, that I wouk
%
see her as usual, and that She Should have no reafon to complain of me.
“And will you be so good, after all — Said She reclining her head on my Shoulder — and will yoi let me have Such a bracelet with your dear pic ture
4
I hesitated a little at the last claufehn this treats of peace. I Should not have minded giving he my picture before; but as I am married, and a: my Lucy has one,,. L think I Should make Joniy distinction between my wife and my mislressi No thing elfe, however, would do. — 'To render hei tolerably easy, therefore, 1 promised her a minia' ture of me; but I am resolved to have it much to( large for her arm.r — Would to H — — n 1.1 had northeast ver feeu her!
letter XXXII
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
Grafton house;
AM come down to this place with Conftanti;
for the air. — She is Still but in a very low way As soon as She is recovered, the ceremony is to b performed. If anything can restore her, Surely i musl be the continual attention of such a man t( make her happy; though I cannot but see that h( is very much otherwise himself. I never, I confess thought him greatly in love, with miss Lewfon till
now:
[ II 1
now; and now I begin to give up my penetration; for I declare he Seems perfectly attached to her : and the hurry he is in to make her lady Charbury, puts the matter, in my opinion, out of dispute— — why then does he Still Sigh? Why sit with folded arms, and Spend hours and hours away when he might be with her? — Possibly, indeed, the llowness of her recovery, contrary to his wishes, may be the cause of his dejection. — Perhaps he may have Several affairs to Settle before his marriage, which require his presence at home : yet, I think, he need not be under any apprehension about her health; the ease whjch he has given to her mind will, in all probability, cooperating with her youth, Soon reslore it. — I may add too his extreme asfiduity; for though he does not spend a great deal of time in her company, he is good-natured and obliging to her, in the highest degree, whenever he is with her, and is uncommonly tender in his whole behaviour. He flies to give her her cloak when She is going into the garden; offers his arm to Support her; makes her sit down when She has walked, but a tittle way, lest She Should be fatigued; and if there is no back to the garden seat, which is Sometimes the case, obliges her to lean upon him to rest her; and when he goes out to take an airing with her, lifts her in and out of the coach. He mufl certainly make the tenderesl of all husbands— — is fond of him to extravagance, repays all his affectionate assiduities by the most grateful endeavours to please. — Yet, notwithstanding all this, there is Something in his behaviour which I cannot define, nor indeed comprehend. He is indisputably
more the guardian, the friend of conslan
*
'[ 122 ]
tia, than her lover. How different is ash, wh( has hurried down hither after us? — My father tho’ I have declared I cannot love him, permit him to be for ever here. If I See right, my fathe: is not pleased with the approaching marriage o my young friend,, yet knows not how to be angr' with me just now, because he would have me II humour with Alh. — I have some notion that m
I
father hoped I had made a conquest instead C conslantia. You know how Sir Robert refpest rank, next to that of forturne, while poor merit yet hold — don’t let me go too far. — asli is certainly a deserving man, though I cannot rewar him for being foin
Continuation
Since I wrote the above, we have been So pei petually engaged, that I have had no time to corr to a conclusion— — is better, and Tue day next is the day fixed for the marriage at tl church near Elm Park, to which place we fha adjourn till dinner time, and leave raifs lewsc the happiest of women; the happiest wife of tl moil amiable of men. — I cannot write any more; present, having got a violent pain in my head, ar ash is sotrouble.forae with his remedies, —
4
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,,
T H E
V
S C H O O L
V
%
FOR
i
H U S BAN D S.
V G L U M E II LETTER XXXIII
I '.. • •,
Lord Charbury to Mr. Dashwood.
This comes, my dear Dafhwood, to invite
you and your amiable Lucy to be present next Tuesday at the ceremony, which will airnosl deprive me of my being. Why Uien, will you say, do you hurry it thus, as miss Lewfon is but barely recovered. — To Say the truth, as it muji be, I wisli it over : possibly, my mind may be more at ease, when all my hopes, which I, indeed, at firsl madly entertained, are cut off. I Shall then be removed from the Sight, and the conversation of this dear, charming, enchanting Bab, who every hour makes me repent of the Step I am going to take. besides, the consciousnefs of having done my duty, of having given ease, nay happiness.. an innocent, tender heart, will probably reconcile me to my fate. — This I am Sure of, if I Stay much longer here, I Shall not have resolution to go through the ceremony abovementioned. — 'Let me have your belt wishes to Support me under a trial sovery fe
v0rp. • ]pt m.p. cjlsohctvp i7mir pnmnariar sar cin
. C 124 ]
Miss Grafton has just told me that She will patch a letter to Mrs. dashwood, by the Serve. who brings you this : her lovely face is ever d in smiles, the ftrongesl indications of a mind ruffled by disappointment— — it ever be STO see those whom we highly esteem happy, is greatest felicity; and of that felicity I Shall not deprived by the poffesiion of conslantia.
LETTER XXXIV
Miss Grafton to Mrs. Dashwood.
I Write, my dear, in a great hurryj becauft will not make lord charbury’s Servant wi You may imagine that I am astifting miss Lew in giving orders about the necestary preparatio Tuesday next is fixed for the completion of 1 happiness. Mofl girls would be in a Strange flut upon such an occasion. tour remember, thou very tenderly attached to your dashwood, were 1 a little agitated: but I see no fluttering emotions her; She appears calm and Satisfied, while my 1( • — I cannot account for his dejection— — a n lancholy air — looks discomposed— — father, w seems to have no relish for all this bustle, desi me to tell you that he experts you both before t appointed day. — How glad would he be to give 1 to ash at the same time! — and the wretch looks if he would, be transported to receive me; but it not in my power to oblige either the one or t other; and, to confess the truth, I am Sorry for Tell Dafhwood from me to bring you down in tin or I will not own him for my brother. Adieu.
LEI
[ 109 3
LETTER XXXV
miss Grafton to Mils Blondel.
TT is done, Cecilia! — I did not intend to Say a A Syllable more; but as you So peremptorijy insisl Upon receiving a minute account of an event which has almost deprived poor Charbury of his life, I proceed to obey you.
I have not, indeed, seen many weddings, but I have heard of many women who were in tears, in fits, c. upon such occasions. Yet Tnever heard of any man— — never saw any man soentirely dii concerted and agitated. — I Scarce well know how to describe souncommon. So unexpetfed a behaviour. — He came, by my father’s invitation, to breakfast, and to fetch away his bride. Never did I behold a more elegant, nor a more pitiable figure. He was drested to a charm; but Such a paleness Over spread his fine face, and he was So totally dejected, that he looked more like a man going to his grave than to his wedding. Constantia, lovely as youth, beauty, innocence, and the Simplicity of her dress could make her, blushed and Smiled as he approached her. — He approached her with more resolution than his appearance at first promised;; then looking attentively at your friend, bowed without Speaking, hung his head and Sighed. — •I felt a Sigh just rising, but heniaa. little, and Stifled it at once.
vol. II K After
* •
[ no }
After breakfasl, during which nobody Spoke my father, dashwood, and Lucy, and during wh lord Charbury could not fwaliow a mouthful, proceeded to church.
When the clergyman alked if .there was any la full impediment, Charbury Shook in Such a man from head to foot, that he actually terrified rr and I began to fear that he never would be able go through the ceremony.
dasliwood then said Something to him Soft he recovered himself, and behaved tolerably wi — I confess, my dear, I could not help feeling him. — What could have given him fomuchdifq ct? — I looked upon him with the sincerest comp fion; I could hardly refrain from tears. — He or cafthis eyes on me, and threw them down hafti while his charming face glowed like fire, — W Should he feel such Strange emotions, my dear? hiord bless me! I was So affected by them, that L a scarce come to myself yet; though I Strive to conceal my feelings as much as possible. — I was afra too that Ash, who was present, invited by my lor saw more than I would have had him; he behave however, extremely well: he never behaved bet in his life; he was really discreet— — I ha said nothing about the new lady Charbury all tt time. — She was sofull of her happiness, that SI gave me not orie anxious moment about her.
We were very elegantly entertained at Elm Pari — My fisler was entreated by my lord to do the h( nours of the table. We returned home at an earl hour, after having pasfed the day as well as V
could.
besofi
E III ]
Before I left them, Constantia, I mud dill call her So, occasionally took me aside, and throwing her arms round my neck, thanked me for all my friendship, the continuance of which She very earnedly and not ungracefully entreated, and hoped She diould have the happiness of feeing, me frequently. My lord, who followed her, looked on her, while in the abovementioned attitude with unusual complacency,, arid mod respectfully joined entreaties to her ladyship’s; desiring me to honour them with my company as often as it wouldbe agreeable to me. I thanked them both for their invitations, but Shalt make few visits to the Park.
In our way to this place, ash took it into his head that I was melancholy — (I certainly was not merr}'} — and therefore drove to enliven me. Had i’never
4
• «
known Charbury,. perhaps I might have brought myself to endure him. But now it is all over — I whll never think of any man again. — I Sit by rnyself as much as lean, ruminating on what is pad. I Seem to have been in a dream. — ^qne thing, however, gives me the Sincered Satisfaction, that is, my sider’s happiness. dafhwood’s fondness for her increases, i^think; She appears, at lead, to be of my opinion;, and! begin to hope I was mistaken about him.
My father is very much pleased with them; and lord Badworth, who is returned to our neighbourhood, and who, as well as Sir Robert, expresses;; greated joy at my sider’s Situation, has insided on their Spending a Sew days with him. Afterwards they are to come hither again. I don’t; hink either of them has the lead desire to leave us. Hy father, indeed is not very well. — The doctor
K 2 tells
[ ]
tells him that the disorder in his Stomach will er in a fit of the gout, which will prevent my feeir you according to my promise— — you leal your aunt to come to me?
LETTER XXXVI
The Honourable Edward dashwood to
Sir Francis Mostyn, Bart.
There win never, I fear, be any peace f 'me— — delicious hours have I pass with my lovely Lucy in this charming retiremer — I had designed to continue here for Some timi but the restlefs jealousy of Die contrived to distu my repcfe. — I have received no fewer than So letters Since I have been here, filled with imp tience at my absence. — Strange impatience! afl having been absent from her three times as lor not a quarter So much has been Said about it. I don’t See her She will certainly expose me. — I ha always dreaded the being exposed by her, and I i particularly alarmed just at this time, because Y indifcrcet behaviour may prove exceedingly C trimental to my wife. I musl, therefore, leave place where I pass So many happy days wander! with ray dear girl by my fide. I might, indee do as 1 have done before, come to town for a we just quiet this tormenting devil, and return agai but I cannot think of leaving my Lucy. She n wants all my care and attendance; and noth! Shall be wanted that can in the leasl contribute
incrci
[ II ]
increase the happiness of So amiable a girl, whose tenderness is as delicate as it is enchanting.
In Continuation.
H -- -- -- ’US! how I have been alarmed! L am not,
indeed, yet easy, nor do I know whether I. Shall ever be easy.
Imagining that I heard a noise in the next room, as if Somebody was crying, I rose and went to See who was there. With no Small Surprise I beheld my dear Lucy, my wife. Sitting with her head upon her hand, while tears rolled in large drops down her Sweet face. '
Terrified at feeing her in Such a Situation, I flew to her, and tenderly asked the meaning of her Sorrow.
She Started — a glow of crimson overspread her face. — She replied, with a faint voice, and a .forced Smile, “Nothing, Mr. dashwood.”
Nothing, ray Lucy — Srid I, folding her in my arms — will my dearest girl attempt to persuade me that She weeps for nothing ?” — I Saw plainly, at the same time, that She endeavoured to Stifle something which gave her exquisite uneasiness,, i which obstructed articulation. — Her bosom heaved. violentsv, and She was more agitated than I had ever Seen her. — I cannot, deferibe what I felt on. the occasion. Frequently, have 1 been melted by. Die into — what I Sometimes thought — an umnau ly weakness; but here my fensibility was, in i the highest degree, laudable, and I indulged it, by kifs ing.^those dear eyes,, which almost blinded a they were with tears. Still looked on me with pleasure— — did the dear creature Smile on me in Spite of her grief. Yet I could not with all my endear
K 3 me lit s
t
[ II ]
ments prevail on her to acquaint me with the cau of her torturing emotions; though I pressed h with an ardour and eagerness which I had nev discovered before. I never, indeed, hadanyreaf till then to make ule of my eloquence in fucli manner. I complained, though tenderly, of LI want of confidence, and by sodoing touched h Finding that file could not get rid of me. She,
1 ist, told me that She was often thrown into fu fits of crying, by reading atfefting passages books, that file could not recover herself present A Second blush crimsoned her beauteous face, wb She with difficulty brought out those word; whi made me, I declare, suspect a little the veracity her confegion. -- However, I Seemed willing tol lieve her; and after having dried her tears with i repeated kiites, made her promise not to read ft books for the future, at lead, not while her fpi were in soweak a Slate. — She then left me, \ Seemed to be glad, for the firsl time to be glad, escap efrom my fond arms.
. You cannot imagine how this behaviour of h
has disconcerted, how much it has asfe^ed me Surely file has not heard anything about Die. - tremble with apprehension— — to be in sea what I but too well deserve;; a life! — Shi any difeovery of this nature happen «aw, it ma; fatal to my wife. However, I hope I have 1 terrifying myself too precipitately. I have watt her with the moil affectionate Solicitude. — Ni S liable has She dropped which gives me roon believe that She is acquainted with a conned
for which I So Severely condemn myself, bu
wl
[ ” 5 ]
which I know not how to put an end. — I redouble my tenderness, for I feel rnyfelf more and more attached to her every hour : from whatever cause her Sorrow proceeds, it has rendered it dill dearer to my heart. — I can Scarce bear her a Single moment out of my sight. — I am always fancying, if She happens to look unusually Serious, that She is ill, weary, or disturbed at Something; and fly to offer a thousand remedies, a thousand endearments to relieve and to comfort her. She receives my endearments, with somuch satisfaction, and with So much pleasure returns them, that I Still hope no.. has yet transpired to give her any disquiet. — ^
I am not, however, I cannot be a moment in security, while Die is thus envious of my Lucy, while her yealoufy makes her wish to destroy our domestic felicity,
LETTER XXXVII
From the Same to the Same.
Another letter from this horrid woman 1 —
, She Swears She will be with me, if She does not see me in two days; I mult therefore decamp immediately. I have made an excuse to my wife for our departure, and Shall take leave of my father today. I would not expose my Lucy to an interview with this furious woman for millions. — You Shall hear further from me when I am in London.
s
LET
* •
[ 1:
E E T T E R XXXVIII
0
From the same to the Same..
J' Positively Suffer So much anxiety from my;
. prchenlion, led Die Should put her threats to execution, that I Sometimes determine to o fess all to my Lucy at'once, who I believe will ceive such a confesiion better than any woman the world; and So have done wnth Die for ever I was soprovoked at being hurried up to to that my company did mot afford my tormenti any great satisfaction when Lcalled upon her; i I, indeed, found none with her but in the care of my boy, as She wept, complained of my ini terence, and upbraided me with my fondness my wife all the time I, Staid; Over and over ftie tell me that.she knew I loved no woman Lucy, and that the only way to cure me was inform her what a wretch had married her“ “:
,,
will then despise you, She will then hate you much as She now loves you.”
The dread of this information has, indeed, therto deterred me.from acquainting Lucy with attachment! which grows every day more and m disagreeable to me. — Die Sees plainly in my f tures the emotions of my heart; the truth is cannot conceal them I pity but I can
feel for her, as I do for. my wife. — Yet give leave, Moityn, to say, this change does not p ceed from.ficklenefs. — Had die’s manners been
engag
[ ti ]
engaging as lucy’s, I Should not, I am persuad ed, have preferred any other woman to her. —
We parted out of humour with each other; I can answer for myself; and jhe appeared to be, in the highest degree, dissatisfied— — Stay had been but Short, and I don’t know when I Shall rereturn to her; whether I Shall ever return to her„ She has not only Squandered away the greatest part of the money I gave her for the cancelling of her debts, but has contratled new ones; sothat if She goes on thus it will be impostible for me to supply her. — I wish I had not come to town. — ‘the Sweet retreat we left was more agreeable to my Lucy, and more eligible for her than the hurry and buslle of London: I have, therefore, hired a pleasant little house on the banks of the Thames for our retirement; there is a pretty garden belonging to it, which is terminated by the river; but it may, I think, be considerably improved. I Shall also make the house itself more convenient; I have Sent down workmen to it. Lucy and I go tomorrow to give orders; for I will make no alterations nor additions without consulting her, whose tasle I consult, indeed, in everything.
I am quite cut of Spirits. I Shall be amused by Scheming improvements; especially when I have the Softest kindest friend always hanging on my arm, that ever man vas blest with.
LET
r MS 1
LETTER XXXIX
From the fame: to the same;
\
\
Richmond
” TE have been here above a week. Neve V V Surely did a man pass his time more agree ably than / do with my dearell girl.. Yet I thougt it advifeable to let Die know, before I left Lor don,, where I was,, lest She Should come in persoto find me out'. Besides, I wanted to kifs my des boy once more before I quitted him. Miss Bellei behaved with a coolness that I did not expe£t however, whether it was real or asturned it game no trouble; I beheld her. with a Stoical indi; ference. During my Stay with her, I Spent m time chiefly playing with Ned, who in proves every hour. — What a charming little fe low he is! You would say So,. Moftyn, wereyo to see him. Were he a year olden I would infi on his going to School : he would then be weane from his mother — r^not that he prefers her to me but he is yet too young,,! think. — I am afraid t trust him with her; any accident happening to hit would almost render me distracted— — at th moment Hong to see him. — I am aftonishedat tb Silence of. his mother Since I left her.
%
L E "i
I ] bj
LETTER XL
From the same to the same.
The uneasiness under which I labour is not to
be described— — having heard nothing from Die for ten days — (I truly rejoiced at her Silence, though I wished to hear from my fon) — I Sent Hopkins to town with a civil inquiry after her health, strongly commanding him not to return without feeing my little Edward.
Imagine my dislrefs when Hopkins told me at his return, that Miss Bellers, who was very well, refused to give any account of her fon; and that he had made ufc of every artifice in his power to procure intelligence about him, but to no pur pose.
Heartily vexed at this information, I sent him, back again dire6tly with a note to Die, wherein I actually entreated her in the most fubmisfive terms to let me know where the child Was, and how he did. — In vain — She peremptorily refused to mention a word concerning him : She would not even condefeend to write a line in answer to ra.
Alarmed beyond expresfion at this unaccountable behaviour, I hurried to town, and in person begged, conjured her only to tell me where my boy was.
“Where you Shall never see him — replied She — He is my child as well as yowrv — I am not ashamed of him as you are, and will take care to place him
out
.[ 120; ].
i
out of the Sight of his father, who is too proud I own him in public, though he pretends to be 1 fond of him in private.”
Horrid insmuation 1 — I told her that So far fror being ashamedof hinr, I gloried in him, and woul when he was at a proper age, raise him to a ftatio in which no person need Scruple to ackncwledg him for his child.
Ay, that won’t be until I am dead— — Sheer, indeed, it whl mod: probably not be at all and therefore I will take care of him myself.”
“You cannot reasonably imagine — replied i that I mean, by desiring to see him, to oppo your doing anything for his advantage: I wou do every thing in my power to promote it; ar cannot live deprived of the Sight of my dear boy
“Now he is your dearesl boy — aid Ihe — bi when you have got another, ycu will Soon forg him. — No, no, dashwood, you can never love tl child long, as you have lost all tendsrnefs for h miserable mother.”
“How unjustly you upbraid me — replied L have I not done everything within the reach my abilities to convince you of my regard f you ?”
Nc — said She, warmly — You have, on theco: trary, done everything which would, you know give me thegreateft uneaftnefs : you pretended, first, that you married this woman for convenient and promised you never would look upon her any other light: but you have basely deceived me you are grown quite fond of her; ycu know y(
an
t r37 ]
are; you cannot deny it. — That cursed love of variety is woven into the constitution of every man, fb that the newesl object is always the most beloved, though She may be every way inferior to the old one. — How often have you sworn to be for ever true to me? — But your Lucy wilhbe neglected by and by, as I am, for another. — Sbiey seducing devil as She is now, will find you as false as hell, as I do.”
Seeing her beginning to rave, and knowing that the gentlesl words would be thrown away upon her in her frantic fits, I left her to herself; nor did She attempt to detain me. — However, before I quitted the house, I closely interrogated the Servants about my boy : but they either could not, or would not give me a fatisfa6tory answer. I could only learn from them that She took him out one day in a chair with her, which She ordered to the Park; that She came home without him, and that he had not been Seen or heard of Since.
You cannot conceive, moslyn, how this news disturbed me. — I went down in the evening to my wife, but was sorestlefs and unhappy, that I could not Stay at Richmond. I therefore hurried back to die’s again the next morning. I endeavoured to coax and flatter her into a good-humour with me, hoping She would then be oss her guard, and that I Should find out what She had done with the child : but the artful creature was too cunning for me. — She seemed pleased with my carestes; yet whenever I mentioned my boy. She instantly began to talk of foraething elfe.
vol. II L i a sked
[ 138 ]
I alked her how She could make me sovery unhappy as to deny me the Sight of my child; tellins her that She injured him also by depriving him o the aftefilion which I willed to Show him. — ' Spoke to no purpose. — At last, being Softened h my endearments. She told me, that if I wouh Swear in the most Solemn manner to love nobod but her, and to treat my wife with the moult ciit ting indifference. She would fetch my child directly.
What an infernal proposal!! — made me shudder with horror; it filled me with Something lik aversion for the woman I had once loved : yet m; ardent desire to see my boy made me try to make her more reasonable— — all the composure therefore, which I could assume, I asked her hov She could pj[; etend to love me, and, at the Sam time, insists upon my behaving in so injurious, i so unjust a manner, to a woman who, by he mild and rational conduit:, is So deserving of m affection and esteem?? ‘‘ She — continued of the most malignant disposition, were Sh highly 'disagreeable in her person, I Should a basely by breaking my marriage vow; but as Ih is sokind, sogentle, and socomplying, as well a every way agreeable, I am doubly bound to kee; it inviolate : inclination and duty equally urge m to treat her with the tenderness and the resped which She has merited from the first moment I be came acquainted with her.”
‘‘ So then — replied She — I find it is as laid — (her features Swelling with passion— — i .as I amays thought; it is owing to your inch
natioi
[ h9 ]
\
nation for this dawdle that you desert me, not from any regard to your ridiculous vow; for ridiculous, nay villainous is it, in the highesl degree, to swear to become faithless and .perjured; and to give up the mother of your only child for another woman. — How can you possibly be bound in a more firm manner to her than to me? — We freely agreed to be true to each other;
/ have mod scrupulously kept my word; I have refused the mod brilliant offers, ' because I would not leave my too lovely Dafliwood : while he not only willingly quits me, but enters into what he calls Solemn engagements, to forsake me. — What religion, what judice is there in Such a proceeding !■ — I want to know, since your mouth is So opposite to ’'our heart 1 — No, dashwood, I am as
much your wife in the eye of H ......<n, as if we
had been before the pried together; though, to please you, I gave up all the privileges of one : but by that H — * — n whom I invoke to revenge me and my innocent child, unless you immediately treat: me in the manner you did before you So fcanda -- loudy left me for this inveigling Lucy, and leave hr to pine as I have done, I 'will not only never ’ let you see your boy again, but will render her for ever incapable of producing a fon to rival him in
yi)ul J \JXUI fv/i w|^v/ii njy
life it Shall be as I have Said.”
I cannot describe the fury which fiashed in her' eyes while She pronounced these alarming threats,, which filled me at once with horror and indignation. * Finding that I could no way bring her to reason but by making concestions unworthy of a
L a man
[ 140 ]
man of honour, unworthy, indeed, of a man o any humanity, I quitted her without making; reply, and returned to my wife.
I returned to my Lucy So tortured with reflections, and sofull of terrifying apprehensions, tha She directly asked me if I was ill.
“1 am very Sure — added She, after I had Seven times told her that I was not ill — that Something i the matter with you.”
Matter enough, indeed, to drive me mad; but
can’t prevail on myself to let her know with wha
a fool, with what a villain She is connected, thoug
I am, unable to conceal the perturbation of m
mind. — How amiably, how tenderly does the de:
creature Strive to Sooth my Soul to peace, and hai
monize my dislradled mind, more than ever di
traded with the uncertainty of my poor ned’s fati
— Could I but once get light of him, I would tes
him from his mother at all events, — I am ali
rendered very uneasy in another Shape : Die hi
been So very expensive to me, and I have lavishe
So many large Sums upon her, that I find my wife
fortune, at least that part of it which I can corr
at, even with what my father made over to n
on my marriage, quite insufficient to Support D
in the extravagant Style in which She chuses to LIV • — I his dilquieiuue, aoaeu to my otnci ituxieile
almost deprives me of my reason. — Poor Lucy fe
the agitation of my Spirits, though She is ignorai
of the cause ot it. Hence arise pangs Still moi
acute.' — Into what unnecestary distrefl'es have I II
volved myself— — very unhappy — the moi
So, because I am felf condemned*
Adieu. E. D.
» ’ • X
r '41 ]■
LETTER XLI
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
Grafton house»
T Have not been right well Since I came here,, JL and the continued bustle we have been in has not made me better. — I kept my room when Lucy and dashwood left us, to get rid of ash; but it is impossible to get rid of him. — L want -- ed, however, chiefly to avoid going to see Con -- Slantia — Lady Charbury I Should now say; and as I pleaded illness, my lord — I mean my lady — 'Sent twice a day to know how I did. Once, my lord called himself; but I did not see him. conslantia I thought would have flown to her Sick friend: but how fleeting is friendship, especially the friendship of women. — Yet iet me not wrong my Con -- Slantia by this afpersion; She cannot, indeed, be affected by it, because She does not deserve it: nor can I suppose that lady Charbury has forgot Bab Grafton, or that She Slays away either from pride or pundlilio; but I believe She is So intoxicated with her happiness, that She thinks of no living creature in the world, except her Charbury.
Having at lasl recovered my Spirits a little, I resolved to make my visits in form, and accordingly drested myself, and w^ent.without sending. They were both at home. My lord flew to lead me in, and my lady was ready to devour me. My lord Said but little; his eyes,. however, talked a good deal: they looked full of a charming languor, which I Strove mt to see. — I could not get away till I had
L % promised
[ 142 ]
promised them — I was engaged for the firsl three or four days they named, finding I would not fix upon one myself; but I could not be engaged foi ever.
My lord led me back to the chariot. He Sighed I thought, when he left me; but I endeavoured not to hear his Sighs.
When the day appointed came 1 Sent a card t( let them know that I was not well enough to keej my engagement, and my card contained half th truth. In the evening they both came to me The servant told them that I was just gone int the garden, for a little air. — The day had bee: uncommonly warm; I had passed the precedin night without much rest; and the stillness of th evening had thrown me into a kind of Slumber i the rustic temple. — Started, on feeling fomebod touch me. — Opening my eyes, I saw lord Chai bury standing by me. — Imagine my Surprise an confusion. He Seemed to be embarrasted, an made an apology for his appearance, by fayinj “Neither Constantia nor I could be easy withoi coming to inquire after you.” - — He then stan mered out something, which I did not underftan He looked, I thought, charmingly graceful, thou rather melancholy.
As we went towards the house, he ofsered me t arm to support me; you may be sure I did not a cept of it.
Lady Charbury ran to meet me, and exprefli much concern at my indisposition, declaring, ho ever, that She was glad I was able to go out. though I was, indeed, not fit to be Seen, not havii
k
[ h3 ]
left my room for the whole day till then. — But what Signifies dress?? — have done with it.
They could not make me, with all their importunities, fix upon another day. — I pleaded want of health, and said I would wait on them as Soon I was well. — 'By perseverance I got rid of them at last— — Charbury seems to be — She muji be the happiest of women. — But why is not he as happy? — She looked excessively pretty; and when he went to put her into the coach. She almosl jumped into his arms, while he looked upon her — as indeed he ought to have looked — with a Smile of fa tisfa6tion. — To do the discreet thing, I musl, I fancy, keep out of my lord’s way — I mean on my own account. — Ash, I believe, thinks with me — though he says nothing which can justify my being offended with him. — Actually I wish that I weas heartily in love with him.
LETTER XLII
Lord Charbury to Mr. Dash wo o i.
YOU desired me to let you know as Soon as I
became reconciled to matrimony, having once been, you candidly confessed, as averse to il yourself as I was; that is, averse to an alliance with the lady with whom you are now blest — I repeat your own words. — As to the Slate itself, I always preferred it to any other; but then I had hoped never to have been constrained— — I married the woman of my heart, dashwood,.! Should be at this moment as blesl you are.: ^ — I have the Satisfaction,
[ h4 ]
tion, however, to tell you, that you did not Speak too hastily when you Said that I could not well be wretched with So amiable a young creature as conslantia. Amiable She certainly is in a high degree; and had I never conversed with rnifs Grafton, I Should have been contented, I believe,
t I ^
conslantia : but without ever feeling that ardent pastion, with the pains and pleasures of which I am too well acquainted. — Yet is my wife young and handsome enough for any man; good-natured, complying, and fond of me to an excess; as a mere woman She has charms Sufficient to excite the warmest admiration, and to raise the paslion of love in a bosom far less amorous than mine : but I feel none of those delicious sensations, none of those inexpresiible transports, which inslantaneously throw my breasl into a fluttering Slate whenever I behold miss Grafton. — What then became of me the other day, when I accidentally touched her.
** And how happened it that you never touched her before?” — Methinks I hear you say.
Why, to tell truth, my friend, 1 have a thousand times taken her Soft, white hand in mine; nay I have kisted her, but never with the circumstances which I am going to relate, were my pressures of any kind attended.
You musl know ever Since I have been married, I have endeavoured to avoid the Sight of this enchanting Bab as much as possible; being determined to do the strictest justice to my wife, as well as to hinder myself from Sighing after what I was never likely to obtain. — Miss Grafton, as if
conscious of her own adorable attractions, and
fearful
t 145 I
fearful of increasing the tormenting flame which at this instant devours me, keeps herself at the greatesl Jiftance. — However, as She is the friend of my wife, the frequent exhibitions of her beauties before my eyes in a familiar way, cannot but make | fotne impression upon me, as I am not one of your phlegmatic fellows, dead to female attra6hons, and destitute of sensibility. — I mean, indeed, toadb with honour, but I cannot pretend to say how far I may be able to resifl: opportunity. — Happily I have a6ted hitherto with honour j but I have been tried, Dafhwood. — My trial, I may add, has been a fiery one.
The indisposition of miss Grafton, which prevented her from coming to us as we expe^ed, gave me So much anxiety, that I could not resl till I knew how She did; or, at least,,. L heard a more particular account of her. — I therefore proposed to my wife to call at grafton house on the evening of the day She was to have Spent with us.
On being told that itie was in the garden, I ran thither, eagerly wishing to See how She really was with my own eyes; though 1 was Strongly encouraged to hope that She was better, as She had quitted her chamber.
With my heart exceedingly agitated I entered the rustic temple, constantia having Staid in the parlour to ask Mrs. Ford Some particulars about her friend’s health.
The first object which Struck me was the dear, lovely Bab herself, reclined on one of the fophas, asleep: her head resting upon her arm, and her fine bright hair hanging carelesly over her snowy forehead. Her cheeks were in the most beautiful
srlow
[ h6 ]
glow to be conceived; I never Saw her look half So handsome. I Slopped at the sight of her in So inviting an attitude, and had not power to leave the place, though I was afraid even of breathing, lest I Should disturb her.
While I Stood thus lost in pleasure, gazing ardently on her, and utterly incapable of going either backwards or forwards, a large garden fly came in at the window, and was just going to settle on the charming cheek which I had So much admired.
Alarmed lest the monstrous fly Should hurt, or only Srighten her, I made an effort to drive it away, and in So doing just touched the dear face which I had endeavoured to preserve uninjured. — ivly touct waked her: but happily, from her behaviour, 1 had no reason to believe that She knew She had beer difturben by me; and I declare I had not prefenct of mind enough to tell her on what account She hac been awaked. — Transported as I was at the Sighi of her, however, I was also fearful of having toe much fluttered her, and felt myself therefon more disconcerted than I had ever been in my life She too, charming creature, appeared in confusion but her confusion increased her natural loveliness Yet, Soon recovering, She asked me, with her ac cuftomed vivacity, where lady Charbury was, an(
proposed going to meet her. -- -- As 1 Saw her loul
fatigued, I presfed her to accept of my arm.
She declined it, but with a Smile which even mad amends for her refusal.
My Constantia met her amiable friend, vyith concern for the news about her illness, and a jo to find her better than She expedited to See hei
which
[ 147 ]
which pleased me extremely; and I killed her as Soon as I got her in the coach, for the esteem and alfection She had discovered for her dear miss Grafton; whom I must ever adore, though this pretty little creature gives me as much pleasure as Ihe can in her way, and is a very good girl. — Indeed, I don’t believe any other in the world would have Succeeded half sowell. ’tis certainly iinpoltible for a man, not entirely diveiled of humanity, to be always infensible to the carestes of a fine young girl, who spends every hour in her life in accommodating herself to his taste— — hen I j am disposed to be kind, with what tenderness does llie Show the excesiive satisfaction which my behaviour gives her! and when I am in a humour to be alone, I need only Say, ‘‘ Do, my dear conslan tia, leave me to my book.” Away She trips, without being in the leasl embarrasted, but returns and I peeps in upon me now and then, without Speaking, miless I call her:. She then Slies into my arms with as much delight, as if She had never been dismisted from them; Sure indeed of being rewarded for her j complaisance with a thousand endearments.
Thus you See I am neither happy nor unhappy;
and yet I am both. -- -- How paradoxical am I? —
■ However, while Bab remains unmarried I can make myseif tolerably easy; and yet, how mean, i how Selfish is it to wish that She Should pass her I youth, the season for love, without tasting any of i its pleasures, because She musl not enjoy them with me. — I hate myself for being soabsurd.. 1 am convinced, from my being utterly I unable to Stifle such a wish, how extremely I am,
k' • ^
[ 148 ]
notwithstanding my marriage, attached to her. — Love and reason, I see, are but too often at variance. How very happy are jow, dashwood, in finding them both unite to bless you in the arms ol your amiable Lucy!
LETTER XLIII
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
AM Still mosl unhappy, because I can get no intelligence about my boy. I cannot learn whither this woman has Sent him. — Were it not for my Lucy I Should actually run distraq: ed. — I am, indeed, half out of my Senses already. — I have been very much disordered with a feverish complaint, occasioned, I believe, by the agitation of my mind; but it has served to make me discover new perfe^ions in my charming wife, new tenderness in every word and action— — have I been indulged! with what extreme asfe6tion did She hang over me, while I was hardly able to lift my head from my pillow! with what anxious care did She endeavour to soothe my pain, to quiet my restlestnefs, and to lull me to Sleep upon her dear Soft bosom— — surely, was a man soidolised by a woman. — Die loved me, I believe, exceedingly; but then She flew to excite and return my pastion with an ardour equal to my own. — This dear angel Seems to have no desires to gratify; no will on earth but mine: She is quite adorable; and could I but recover my boy, I Swear Solemnly I
would
✓
[ h9 ]
would never see Die again. Were I to acquaint you with the numberless attentions of my deared girl, I Shouid fill a dozen Sheets. — She enquires into the cause of my melancholy with a tender timidity, as if fearful of giving offence; and when I put her off, really ashamed to relate my follies, turns away from me. Silently weeping. — Oh! God! how ray heart is torn! — I run after, catch her to my bosom, and kifs away her tears. Her love is a remedy for everything: but as I feel myself uur deserving of it, my remorse is almost insupportable.
LETTER XLIV
From the same to the same.
This creature’s insolence will be hardly credited by you. — She has sent her woman after me even into the very presence of my wife. — s’death! her behaviour is not to be endured.
I had not been well, I told you. — Finding myself extremely low, but sufficiently recovered to leave my chamber, I walked with my Lucy in the garden. I walked with her till I was quite fatigued. — I then threw myself on a Seat by her, resling my head on her lap. — Being more disordered in my mind than my body, I begged my dearest girl to Sing and charm away my pain. — She inslantly complied, and with the fweetest of all voices, ren.. Still more harmonious by the tender com pastion which She felt for me, wrapped my soul in elysium.
vol. II M While
[ ISO ]
While I was in this enraptured Slate, who Thou' make her appearance before me but Else. Nevi was Surprise, confusion, and anger, equal to mim and they all cooperated at once to render me i capable of expressing my Sensations on the very u expected occasion. Anger, however, prevailin gave me Strength enough to recollect myself Starting up from my v/ife’s lap, without even co descending to Speak to Else, I called aloud f Hopkins.
Hopkins instantly appearing, I asked him he he dared to fiend any perfbn into the garden, wit out firsl inquiring whether I chose to be see and with all the resolution I could muster u added, Whatever that person wants, take I into the house, and let her itw you her bufiness.’
The manner in which I Spoke was Sufficient let Else See that I would be obeyed. — She they fore, went with Hopkins, having firsl, howev looked very earnestly both at me and my wife, whom I immediately complained of the imper nence of Hopkins; and in order to crush fuspicioi which She might very rationally entertain, Sai “This woman, I luppofe, is Somebody with wht he. is connected, and I will go and inquire into t affair.”
What a fcandaious evasion! — How defpical we al when we endeavour to make our ferva appear guilty of faults which we have ourfeh committed! — How does one folly draw us II another!
1 scarce knew how Lucy took what I said her: I could net Stay to observe her behavioi
Hurryi
%
[ HI 3
Hurrying into the house, I aflced Else What She meant by coming to me in that manner.
The deceitful huffey replied, “that her mistrefs had expressly commanded her to see me wherever I was; and to tell me that if I did not visit her as usual, (he would come herself, and know the reason of niy absence.”
“The reason — Said I — fly well knows already : had Ihe not kept me in ignorance about the child. Sue would have had no room to complain.”
“maser is at home. Sir — Said Else— — lady bid me tell you.” —
“Do y ou then immediately go to her, and never let me see you here again upon any account whatever.”
Flinging from her when I had uttered these words, I retired to my closet to consider what I should lay to my Lucy; but I could not think of abetter excuse than I had made before; an excuse which 1 was astually ashamed to repeat,, and therefore Said nothing at all.
The dear girl, who is, I believe, as unfuspect ing as She is lovely, not once expressed the ilightell curiosity about Else, though her horrid appearance prevented me from closing my eyes all night.
The next morning I went to Die; fully intending to chide her very Severely for her imprudence,, her inlolence indeed; but She began first;; after having vented a torrent of abuse, the repetition of which would fully my paper, attually curled my wife, Ned, herself, everything; and with the bitterest execrations willed unnumbered evils on my head, only because Lhad laid it in the Soft
M 2 laa
L ].
lap of my angel, my Lucy. — What infernal beings do the mosl beautiful ones in the creation make themselves,, they give way to their angei and resentment! — In vain did I tell her that I hac been much indisposed.. I was then very ill and that the anxiety 1 felt about my boy, ha( made me wish to lay my head, anywhere for; little resi.
“Undoubtedly — said Ihe — I wonder you dii not lay it in her deteslable bosom— — this ridi Gulous excuse won’t go down with me; you knov yourself it is a villainous one: you know you lovi this woman, ay, dote upon her as you once di upon me; and it was your love for her alone tha made you soeager to marry; though you framei So poor,, soflimsy an apology for your conduf about your want of money.”
I positively astured her that my apology was th truth; and that I Should be in the greatest want C money again, did She not fet Some bounds to he expenses. — Your extravagance —
“Aye — replied She — it is all my extravagant to be Sure. — H — 11 Seize you though, for layin the cause of my misery on me, when I have r hand in it. — Take back all that you have given ra — continued She, putting her hand in her pockel and throwing a purie at me — here, take back you picture too; it is not like you; it is not half 1 handsome as that which you gave your wife : bi were it ten times more lovely than it is,. I woul Scorn to keep the copy, without being poffelted ( the original. — Nc — I will have all or none. there, Sir, (throwing it upon the ground, an
Stampin
[ 153 1
stamping on it) — there— — — thus would I Serve you and your wench, for She is nothing better: your Vows, your love, your person, are all mine, though you have unjustly and cruelly given them to another : but by everything that’s dear to me, I swear you Shall never enjoy that peace of mind of which you have deprived me, nor your idol neither — I will positively destroy her; Since I find that you can only be hurt by her destru6tion. i’ll make you. both feel worse pangs than those of Slighted love, if worse pangs can poslibly be endured.’^’
A bursl: of tears gave here a momentary Slop to her fury, and afforded me time to reflect upon the tnoft likely means to Sooth her: for when She is in these raging fits, there is no contending with them. • — Opposition only adds violence to the Storm. — At lasl it Subsided. — I then, having yielded to it the more readily, as I earnestly longed to see my boy, who had not yet appeared, catched up my pitlure, the glass of which was broke in a thousand pieces; and with a look calculated, I thought, ^ to touch her. Said, “And is it thus. Die, you treat the resemblance of your once loved dashwood; indeed him — himself, by your cruelty, in depriving him of the sight of his dear child I— —
“villain — disfembling villain! — : ieplied file — can you again put on all that bewitching softness,, firsl seduced my too credulous heart, and. made me as eager to adore as to be adored? Can I again be brought to listen to that Sweet, deluding, tongue! — to Seek my happiness in thofe^enchanting^
eyes
m3. “You[
[ ]
You Shall, I Swear — replied I, taking her in ray arms — you Shall find all your happiness, if you will be but moderate and discreet, as I have ofter told you.”
“And Shall 1 again listen to you, you charminj false one ?” — (half Softened) —
“Let me but see our boy, my Die — (forcini myself to embrace her— — you Shall be Satisfy with me; upon my life you, Shall.”
“Yes — ^just when you are not in humour wit your wife, you will, 1 suppose, come and fool awa an hour with me, and then go and loll out the re of the happy day in her lap. — Oh! the very id( is not to be Supported, dashwood; I will have yc all, or none! ”
“But you give me no encouragement — Said i to be constant; you will not let me have my Northeast — The sight of that pretty fellow would bind n to you more firmly than anything upon ear could do.”
And foi must be obliged to that chit, aft all, for your love, and not to anything in mysel though I am Still allowed by all the men to be handsome as ever.”
“I Shall allow you to be as handsome, a handsomer, than ever, if you will produce my bo as the sight of him, and my tenderness togeth would brighten your features and complexion I yond expresiion. — Do, my dear Diana, ” added Still wheedling her.
She then laid her head languishingly on i Shoulder, and bade Else fetch the boy,
Ne’
[ 155 1
Never certainly vras any transport equal to mine.. — At the appearance of the dear little rogue, I almost threw his mother down in advancing to meet him, as he ran into my arms. — Nobody who has not been a. father, moslyn, can tell what a father feels upon Such occasions. I. thought I Should never be able to let him go from me. — When 1 went to Set him down the Sweet child climbed up in my lap, and hung round my neck, sothat his mother was absolutely excluded from any Share in my caresses; though I Saw pleasure dance in.the cunning gipfy’s eyes at my fond parental behaviour.
As Soon as ray find: transports were over, I began to. consider howl Should get him from her; and being Sufficiently assured that I could only gain my point by addrefsy I pretended to be quite reconcil^ ed, to be quite charmed with her and her Son.
pleased. with having Seen my pretty Ned I returned: : lasl,. to my Lucy; yet I was by no means Satisfied with myself for being capable of deceiving two women, both of whom had given me somuch delight; and particularly pitied my excellent wife, who has not hitherto furnished me with the Smallest pretence to find fault with her. — With what sweet Smiles did She receive me! — > how anxiously did She inquire after my health! — how kindly did She propose unnumbered remedies for my relief !r — None of her remedies will, I fear, prove efficacious.. — Innocent herself. She little thinks of the pangs which / endure. — She cannot feel as I feel. — Oh that my life had been.as irreproachable as hers I
LETTER
[ 156 ]
LETTER XLV
From the same to the same.
YO U advise me to pursue with Spirit a defij which I have long, you know, wished execute. — I am Still, however, lingering about : because I cannot bring myself to be So well Satisfi with regard to the rectitude of it, as you seem be. — Were my boy out of the question, I Shoi part with Die for ever without the least hesitatio but to deprive her entirely of her child would t I imagine, to act unjustly. — Yet if the removal my fon from his mother would be advantageous him, ought I to delay it a moment? — But where have Secured him I Shall not be able to venture her. To think how much jbe musl fusfer 1 Such a Separation tortures me extremely. — t1 moment this businefs is done I will return to Gra tonne house with my wife, and Study to preserve h good opinion, and the regard of her family, wi which I am at present, I believe, however, u deservedly, distinguished. — I must also Strike upi a more frugal plan than that I at first feto with, as I have all the reason in the world imagine that Lucy will be contented with it., But I cannot let Die be distrested while I ha’
money enough for her fubfistence; to deprive h of her child will be to make her Sufhciently u: happy. — I am going now to take all necefsary me fares for a proceeding, which will give me, pe haps, more pain than pleasure j but I cannot LII any longer without my boy.
LEI
[ r57 T
LETTER XLVI
From the same to the Same.
I Have Succeeded. Hopkins undertook to conduct the business with all the dispatch and Secrecy which I required, and brought the dear boy to me while his mother was at Ranelagh. — She could go to Ranelagk without him:, when She thought neither Lucy nor I would be there— — Sweet little fellow Seemed transported to come to me. — clasping me round the neck, he criedj “Now, papa, you will let me live with you ?” — And indeed his requesl touched me So Senfibly, that I did not know how to bring myself to part with him; however, I was obliged to send him from me for fear of a difeovery on all Sides; and therefore dispatched Hopkins with him to a brother of his, who is a taylor of some note,, and a married man— — wife is out of town for the air at a little village a few miles from, London,, with whom ned is to be lodged, and kept as private as possible— — will be, I, fuppose, in a dreadful way when She misses her Son; but while I have him Safe under my care, I Snail not mind her furious behaviour..
L E T
[■ ]
I
LETTER XL VII
From the same to the same.
WHAT a letter have I received from Die,
accusing me of having Stolen her Son! —
Though I do not find that She knows how the
#
affair was managed, as Hopkins did not appear in it himself, but bribed the house maid to bring the child to him in the Park, as Soon as her mistrefsj Else, and the footman were gone to Ranelagh; and I have hired the girl to wait on Ned till he h fit to go to School.
This letter is very different from all the former ones I received from her; for though there an many Severe passages in it, there are also paragraphs of the plaintive kind soaffecting, that! cannot read them unmoved. She touches ver tenderly upon our last meeting too; telling me tha She had 'flattered herself, from my behaviour there, that I had been concerned for having treate her So cruelly, and that She had begun to hope one more for a return of the passion, which had eve Since our first acquaintance made all the happinei of her life; but that now finding herself again de ceived, deceived in the most barbarous manner and rendered completely miserable by the loss C her child. She felt herself unable to bear So terribl a blow; adding, that if I would not restore he Son to her. She must take the befl methods fh could think of to recover him. “In the fir place I will advertise him in the public papers:
I receive
159 ]
I receive no satisfaction from them j if you persifl: in keeping me in ignorance with regard to my child, and refuse me the Sight of him, I Shall have recourse to measures less desirable than those which I have already mentioned.”
Her letter, I confess. Staggered me not a little; and I was alraost tempted to go to her; but upon reflection 1 determined not to see her, lest She Should by Some artifice or other draw me to inform
r
her where my boy was concealed. I therefore wrote an answer, in which I told her that I had taken away my Son, because I thought it proper to place him where he might have an opportunity of learning something, as he now began to be of an age capable of receiving instruction. — “Know' ' how unwilling you would be to part with him — added I — knowing how much concern you would naturally feel on the occasion, I a£ted, in my opinion, in the most eligible manner, and very much wish to hear of your being contented with what" I have done.”
A very Short answer was returned to me in the pathetic Style: — the concluding words were, ‘‘ I am extremely ill; I am weary of my life; weary of everything. Since I am deprived of my darling boy.”
I have heard nothing about her from that time; and am, therefore, preparing for Grafton House, and to give my wife an opportunity of enjoying that quiet, which is sonecesfary for her in her present condition; that quiet which cannot be had in town, or near it, unless you Shut yourself up from all Society.
m
F. T[
[ ]
LETTER XL VIII
Lord Charbury to Mr. Dashwood.
T don’t remember ever to have felt my mind II A a more agitated Slate than it has been in durin| the lasl fortnight. Lady Charbury has been ver ill. At the beginning of her disorder She found f flrcing a desire to send for miss Grafton, that fli had written a card for that purpose, and was ac X tually going to dispatch it, when I came in an saw it in her handi — As She had no doubts con
cemingmy entire approbation. She only just Show
her card to me, adding, that She was greatly indil posed, and wishing earnestly to have the pleafur of bab’s company, had prefited her So much ti come, that She fully expected no denial.
I felt an uneasiness at this information, which cannot describe. As J sat for Some time lookin
I
on the card which I held in my hand withou speaking. She began to discover that its content were not at .all agreeable to me.
“Sure — cried She, with a languishing tone my dear lord, you cannot have any dislike to m; amiable miss grafton’s company ?”
This question made me colour — yeti asfedta to be displeased, and endeavoured to reason Con Stantia out of her fancy, telling her that I though She would pay her friend a greater compliment bj inviting her when She was well, and better able t entertain her.
« I wll
[ ii ]
\
“I will gladly do everything in my power to give miss Grafton pleasure when I am well: but I very much wish to see her now, because (he is So cheerful, and says somany kind things. — You know, my lord, how much good She did you when you was Sick.”
I felt myself touched a Second time on the recollection of bab’s charming officiousnefs about me, which made me think it highly improper to trust myself with her sonear me again. I, therefore, began to convince lady Charbury of the impropriety of defining her friend’s company just now, afliiring her that 1 would Supply her place, and do whatever I could to make her easy.”
A few tender caresses put her by for the present; but as her disorder increased, and as her Spirits became more and more depressed, she took it into her head that she Should never recover. — She
grew, indeed, soextremely unhappy for want of the sight of her friend, that I could not any longer refuse, though in doing foi Should aq: directly in opposition to my judgement, to invite her. — I consented to write even a Second card, dictated by Conflantia: but 1 took care also to avoid it in such a manner that miss Grafton might only think we defined her company for a Single day. — She even understood me Still better; for she made but a viflt of a couple of hours, pleading Sir robert’s bad (late of health. I only received her, and led her back to her carriage. I would not interrupt her visit to lady Charbury.
How lovely did She look! how amiable was her behaviour! how joyfully Should I have Supplied vol. II N gonftantia’s
[ i62 ]
conftantia’s place when She threw her arms rou her charming neck, and pressed her to her bofc in the warmth of friendship! — I even loved h Charbury while I envied her, better than at a other time, for her esteem, for her fondness i this dear Bab. Glad was I, however, to 1 her depart, tho’ I could have gazed on her 1 ever.
Luckily Constantia grew better, and luckily was saved from being too near the woman i whom I cannot help doting, though I am co vinced that I ought never to think of her again, Be thankful dashwood, that you in a marriag not of your own Seeking, find your happiness or in the arms of your wife.
LETTER XLIX
miss Grafton to miss Blondel.
I Am going, ray dear Cecilia, to consent to measure, with which I have often thought, esp cially of late, that I never Should be able to cor ply. — IHAVE brought myself to think more favou ably of ash, and to wish I had a heart to give hir — — Will you not infer from this declaration that Shall certainly give him my hand? — To tell ' the truth, I found my head running too much upc Charbury for Some time even after he was nia ried, and irrecoverably losl to me; and therefore out of prudence, deprived myself, in a great me; sure, of the innocent pleasure I Should have er
joy
[ 1^3 ]
joyed in Seeing conslantia, because I would not put myself in his way.
Conllantia, however, being taken ill, would not be Satisfied, unless I came to See her. Accordingly a card was brought to me, written by my lord. You cannot conceive how the sight of the well known hand fluttered my foolish Spirits, and made me sensible how very unfit I was to pay Such a visit. Indeed I at first: hesitated about it, and, ' al nioft determined to Srame lome excuse. Fearing, however, that if 1 refused, my lord might come himself to fetch me, 1 went.
He met me at the door with Such looks of delight, and declared his gratitude to me in such strong terms for my regard for lady Charbury, while he led me to her chamber, that I did not, I doubt, behave with the reserve with which I had; intended to appear. — Not that 1 would have you imagine I discovered any improper emotions : but I will honestly own 1 Scarce knew how to conceal the Satisfaction I felt at the sight of him. He looked, 1 thought, more amiable than ever, and there was an engaging softness in his manners,, which touched me extremely. He left me, however, alone with my lady, who told me She felt herself revived at my presence, and complained,, poor, innocent, unsuspecting girl, of my neglecting her very much Since her marriage.
“As you are So happy with the man of your choice — Said I — you cannot, I think, want the company of a third person“
“am, indeed, my dear miss Grafton — replied she— — happiest of women. — My lord treats me
N 2'. with.
[ 1^4 ]
with a tenderness which far exceeds my expert; tions; but do you know — added She, with a fmi — that I want the company cf So agreeable a friei
t
as you are, who have been long acquainted wi every movement of my heart, in order to ta about my lord to you, and to tell you the thoufa kind things he does to make me happy. — In i turn, my dear, I will praise you as much to hin
T hat will never do, thought I.
After having made her a little compliment up her partiality in my favour, I Said, “My fatht ill date of health prevents me from coming to y as often as I wish to see you; but my esleem j
affection for you are as warm and as Sincere ever.”
She threw her arms round my neck to tha me. At that moment my lord entered the roc I broke from her, and looked very silly, I bolie as 1 Saw an expreition in his eyes, which ou not to have been in them, and which my app< ance had occasioned. — He accompanied me to i chaise with emotions which he Strove to Stifle, could not suppress; his hand trembled exceedinj and he quitted me with a Sigh which Seemed come from the bottom of a heart in the most: tated condition.
I can’t Say that I felt myself right the who le afterwards; and as ash was very importunate the evening, I almost thought it would be be to take him to drive the other more effedlually of my head. However I did not acquaint with my sentiments you may be hire. I < treated him with more complaisance than uf
[ >65 ]
by making no opposition to his repeated entreaties for my consent to the completion of his wishes. I sat, indeed, half Stupid, and did not much attend to anything : but when I retired to my apartment, I began to consider that people not entirely disagreeable to each other might be happy in the marriage Slate, and that a tender inclination on each Side was by no means absolutely necestary. — ■ Has not this astertion been Strongly enforced by one who was certainly as great a masler of the human heart as ever existed And does not the union between lord and lady Charbury give strength to it? — Lord Charbury was not, I have reason to believe, in the Slightest degree in love’ with miss Lewfon, and yet you see he behaves with a tenderness fusecient to make her contented with it. — Why then cannot I bring myself to treat ash in the manner agreeable to his wishes? — • postibly his paslion for me may,, in time, kindle a pastion in my bosom for him \ at least, it is worth while to try. As all men are equally indisferent to me, 1 think I ought to determine in favour of the. man who has, according to all appearance. Suffered the mo St for me..
You are now well acquainted with my cafe. — • Shall I take him, my Cecilia? — Answer this important question for me. I actually fear that t h^ve not fortitude enough to enable me to determine for myself— — speedy in. your reply; for you know,
“The woman who deliber ates is losl, ’^’
N 3 L E T[
[ ]
t
LETTER L
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
I Have been exceedingly alarmed within thef< X two days, by hopkin’s telling me that Di( Bellers is actually lodged in a farmhouse not hal a mile from this place— — a perpetual tor mentis this woman to me! — She sees that I will to get rid of her quietly, but She will not fall i; with my Scheme j She will, I fear, pursue me t destruction— — live continually in dread of her in discretion and folly, and tremble for my love, m Lucy, who grows every hour dearer and dearer t' me. — 'Yet I sometimes think She looks melanchoh
J
though She firives to put on a cheerfulness when ever I approach her, unless her tender concern fc my anxiety, which I cannot hide, throws a glooi ver her charming face..
I keep within the bounds of this spot as much i I can, being afraid of meeting with Die, wh came here certainly with no other design but to t near me, to torture me to madness— — entirel does She defeat her own schemes— — — She has an hopes of bringing me back. She will not by thi risquing a discovery of herself, gain her poin Perhaps She thinks that by thus dying in my fa( She may frighten me into a good-humour with he: but She will be deceived. — I Shall only let her Southeast however, that I dislike her being So near me, by total neglect— — have secured my boy. — In Spi
. I
(
[ 1^7 ]
of my other vexations the removal of Mm from her gives inexpressible ease to my mind. — If my wife gets over her lying in as well as ned’s mother did, I Shall be completely happy.,
I
LETTER LI
Mils Grafton to Miss Blondel.
Your advice with regard to ash on his perpetual solicitations for my consent has been of much Service to Mm. As to myself I remain as I was; not a bit better reconciled to a man who does his utmost to deserve me; So finding that I was less and less dispofed to change my Sentiments,
I e’en told him plainly that I would endeavour to look upon him in the light he chose, but that I could not pretend to say whether I Should ever be, able to treat him in the manner he might wish for, and therefore desired him. not to expect too much. — He Seemed to be exceedingly transported at my consent; yet he endeavoured,, 1 thought, to suppress his raptures, lesi they Should be diiagreeable to me. — I was not, indeed, in a humour to liden to them, though I slro've to appear Satisfied with what I had done; and he behaved So well, that he really made me think it my duty to conquer my partiality for lord Charbury. — But I cannot yet bring myself to talk of him. with the pleasure i could wish to do. — You must not expefit me to say So much upon this. Subject as upon any other.
f
LET[
[ ]
LETTER LIL Lord Charbury to Mr. Dashwood.
WHEN you So obligingly called on me thi
other day, and exprested your Surpriz and concern at feeing me So Seldom at Grafto; house, it was not in my power to give you m reasons, because I was apprehensive that I migli be interrupted by lady Charbury; I therefore chol to write, especially as I am going into Hereford Shire for a few months .- — Change of place ma poslibly, be of some service to me, by driving th lovely miss grafton’s image from my mind; sohere every Spot forces me to think of her. — I hai pleased myself with hoping that time, absence, an conftantia’s endearments together, would hav contributed to banish her from my memory, whe lady Charbury, by insifting upon Seeing her th other day, as She was So indisposed, awakened pastion, which had been, happily for me. Hum bering in my breast; and Since I have heard of he receiving the addrestes of Ash, I have felt mor uneasiness than I could have expected to feel. a1 ter all, how very little do we know ourselves, an. to what purpose do we boast of our reason, as it i i soinsufficient to conduct us to happiness!! —
is it to me to whom miss Grafton is married, i She is but married to a man capable of promotin,
her felicity, as Mr. ash undoubtedly is in ever respect. Were She to remain Single She coul never be mine. Ought I not then, if I really see
a tender passion for her, to rejoice at her ap proaching happiness ’tis too certain, how
[ i69 ]
ever, that I do not rejoice at it. — Envy and and jealousy, which never invaded my bosom before, have now taken posteffion of it, and torture me Severely; but I am determined to dethrone them as Soon as postible. — I will try every method in my power to hinder my thoughts from dwelling upon what gives me So much pain, upon what makes me sothoroughly despicabie in my own eyes. Have I not all the reason in the world to be Satisfied with my lot? Is not my wife young, hand some, and entirely attached to me? Why then Should I pine for another woman, who mosl probably would, were I this moment at liberty, reject me? — I mu ft, I will get the better of this excef sive weakness — Weakness is too Soft a word — it is criminal now, on all accounts, to think any more of the dear, lovely Bab Grafton. — Adieu, therefore, my dear Dafhwoodj let me hear from you frequently; but if you wish me to enjoy any peace, forbear — pray forbear to mention your too amiable Sister.
LETTER LIIT.
miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
%
Bless me, Cecdial what an escape have S had! I almost tremble Still to think of the danger I was in. — You know I had a9: ually begun to make some progress in my endeavours to be Satisfied with ash. — I even looked upon him without abhorrence, and listened to him with a degree of patience at which I was myself Surprised; but
he
[ HO ]
he greatly merited my attention, I thought, as few men could have acquitted themselves with more propriety than he did on what you will allow to be rather a delicate occasion.
/
A few days ago I received the following letter by the penny posl.
«
Mrs. Ash to Miss Grafton. Madam,
I Am reduced to the cruel necessity of divulging a secret, which must lesten the character of the man whom I have long truly loved : yet it is not with the lead hope of recalling him to myself; nor do I expect to regain a heart, to which I once flattered myself I had Several pretensions— — hands, however, madam, have been legally united. — Justice obliges me to give you this important information. — I was married at Oxford to William ash, Esq; of the Dale in Dorfetfhire.' I Should never, indeed, have discovered my marriage without my husband’s permislion, though I have indisputable proofs of it in my postesiion, had I not heard of his attachment to you. By concealing it any longer, especially from you, I Should behave in a very criminal manner.
I am. Madam,
Your humble Servant,
A. Ash.
The above letter aftonished me, I confess, exceedingly, because I had all the reason in the world to believe that ash was a man of character— — firsl, indeed, I was inclined to imagine that Some
meddling
[ II] ]
person had endeavoured to make a difference between us, by accusing'him of a piece of villainy of a very atrocious nature; and as I thought it incumbent on me not to condemn him unheard, I gave him the letter. — I gave it him, and watched every movement of his features, desiring his perusal of it.
He read it with great perturbation; he turned pale, and trembled to such a degree, that the letter fell from his hand to the floor.
As Soon as he could recover himself a little, he Said, with a faltering voice, “The charge is but too true, madam; I am undone for ever; yet I am the more disquieted, because I mufl have appeared to you in the mofl: Scandalous light; I mufl; have appeared to you as the basefl deceiver. But I Swear by everything most Sacred, that I never had the least design to deceive you; and if you will but permit me to relate my unfortunate flory, you may think me entitled to your pity, though nothing more.”
“Soon after my first going to Oxford, I was, in my rambles about the country. Struck with the uncommon beauty of a young giri not many miles from the university. — She was the daughter of a farmer; but She was as much Superior to the other females in the village by her education as by her person— — person charmed my eyes, her innocence, modesty, and affection for me won my heart. — I feixed every opportunity of feeing Nancy Trevor, and I thought of her too much, when absent from her, to enjoy any kind of satisfaction— — mufl also, though to my Shame, confess, that
as
/
[ 172 ]
as I believed, from the great difference in our Situations, a legal union between us would be impracticable, I Strove by every art I was master of to induce her to consent to my wishes without marriage, offering her a handsome allowance for the present, and promising to make a large Settlement on her when I came of age. — She refused everything of that kind, however, with a firmness which gave me the greatest disquietude, as I really was at that time extremely fond of her. — My fondness being increased by her refislance, became at length too violent to be endured; So that I found myself Strongly impelled, by a pasiion which I could not possibly conquer, to marry her privately, as I knew that ray father would never approve of such a Step. So pleasing was her person. So winning were her manners, I thought myself for Some time the hap piest of men, and I never left her but with the greatest regret. — My frequent visits to London gave considerable interruptions to my happiness with her; but when I reflected upon my clandestine proceeding, fully asfured that I never could prudentiy attempt to own her during my father’s life, I was abfoiuteiy distreffed; and I confess I began to repent of what I had done : yet, whenever I returned to Nancy, her beauty and her love fully reconciled me to my Situation. — The last time I was at Oxford I found her father very ill, and a relation come from Ireland, who proposed to to take her back with him to his mother and Sister, on her father’s death, till his affairs would permit him to return, and fettie here. For a long time She
and
[ 03 ]
and I made Strong objections; but mine growing infensibly weaker and weaker, She at last, though
with the utmost reluctance, consented- -- -- --
afterwards I was pierced with the sinceresl Sorrow by the receipt of a letter from that relation, who informed me of her being drowned on going ashore. — However I became in a little while reconciled to the loss of her, by reflecting upon the ill consequences with which such a marriage with Such a person might have been attended. — From that moment I looked upon myself as entirely at liberty to address whomsoever I liked best. — On my father’s dying a Short time afterwards I fet out to make the tour of Europe. — I Staid in Franco and in Italy longer than I had intended; but neither abroady nor at my return, did I fee: any woman whom I could love Seriously— — were the first, miss Grafton, who made an impresiion upon me; and though I met with repeated refusals from you, I could not bring myself to withdraw my addrestes, and to fix upon one more dispofed to be kind. — Imagine then how Sincerely I was transported when you So condescendingly permitted me to hope. — Yet I Strove to restrain my transports, lest I Should offend the only woman in the world whom I wished to please. — I had the Satisfaction to Sind my behaviour agreeable to you. — What then can equal my present despair— — Shall I be able to relinquish a woman on whom my heart distractedly dotes! — Yet believe me, miss Grafton, when I Solemnly Swear I never intended to
«/
deceive you, and that I am by this unex vol. II O pected
[ 174 ]
"I
pected discovery in the highesl degree unhappy.”
There is no describing, my dear, what I felt from the time of receiving Mrs. ash’s letter, to the conclusion of this eclairciifement, which gave me inexpreslible relief. — I can no way make you fensible of my feelings. — I appeared to be just escaped from feme imminent danger; dragged from the brink of a precipice.' — In Short, 1 bad but just recovered, without knowing, however, what reply to make to Ash, who Still looked extremely disconcerted, when he proceeded in the following manner: “You have not yet heard all, madam. — What I have to Say will make me, it is true, appear more culpable, but I cannot be eaf)i till I have made a full confesiion. I did my fell receive a 4etter from my wife, in which She informed me, that though She had great reason tc believe She was odious to me. She could not, where She heard of my going to be married to another, without acting very unjustly, refrain from endeavouring to prevent the execution of my deslgn. — She then acquainted me that She had been partly confined by her relation, who wanted her to live with him as his mistrefs, and partly by a letter, which She had received from me soon after hei landing in Ireland, wherein I assured her, that il She either wrote to me, or took the leasl Step towards feeing me, or hearing from me, I would never fusfer her to come again in ray Sight. — “Many cruel expressions (to repeat her own words) were added, which I declare almost broke
my heart j but I resolved to obey, though at the
Same
[ 175 ]
same time I made use of all my efforts to get out of the hands of my relatioif, and'to come to England; I could not however succeed in a great while. At last, hearing upon inquiry that you was abroad, 1 went down into buckinghamlhircj where an old friend of my mother’s permitted me to (lay with her, till I could procure Some intelligence about you.” — She concluded with saying, that (he had written to me on her arrival in England to let me know where Site was. — Now I positively afi'ure you, madam, that 1 never received a
line from her, never heard a Syllable about her till
^ •/
the day before yederday. — The letter, ot which I have communicated to you the principal contents, then came to my hands; and I will be honesi: enough to own that I was not willing to give credit to those contents, nor inclined, fupposmg the removal of my doubts, to resign the happiness I had So long sighed for, and which I was just going to enjoy. — But this letter addressed to you is decisive against me, and I must try to Submit without murmuring to what I cannot prevent'. — Yet I (hold have been miserable indeed,, hadr I not had it in my power to convince you that i.believed myself free from every kind of engagement when I offered you my heart — that in Spite of all other attachments, will remain your’s and only your’s.”
1 was really So much surprised at what had', heard, and So pleased to be decently difengaged from an affair into which I never heartily entered,, that I could only advise him, to return to his wife. — He accordingly took leave of me, though with muchffeeming reluctance, and .many painful emo
O q.x tions..
[ ]
tions. — When I told my father all that had been related to me, Softening matters, however, as well as I could, and adding how much reason I had tc be thankful, he fell into a violent pastion, and Said “The young fellows are grown So corrupt, thai there are Scarce any to be trusted: happy is h who has no daughter to marry; for it is fifty tf one but he may dispose of her either to a rogue o to a fool; as to this fellow, with his clandeftini marriage, he is both.” — I wonder my father wa So furious, as I had had So narrow an escape. had I been taken in there would have been a ver good excuse for his enraged behaviour. But there is no accounting for the oddities of Some people.
LETTER LIV
«
The Honourable Edward Dash wood to Si
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
IF you are the Sincere friend I have always take you to be, let me see you immediately, thoug I breathe nothing but Sorrow and despair, — M wife — my Lucy — my angel, lies at this inftai dangerously ill of a fever. — That cursed Die hi made an attempt upon her life. — I can add r more. — Come to me directly. — Hopkins will dire' you to the raost raiferable of men.
LEI
[. 177 1
LETTER LV
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
Grafton house
INTO what confusion and distraction have we been thrown within these few hours! — What Scenes of terror and despair have I beheld 1 — all arising from an aftonifliing and very unexpetted event. — I will endeavour to give you a circum r (lantial account of the whole affair; though I have hardly recovered my senses, andean scarce hold my pen.
We were all walking in the Park yesterday in the evening. — My father, unfortunately for him, was with us. — He has not been able for a. considerable time to get sofar from, the house; he could not have been So far from it in a more un
V
lucky hour. — While he supported himself with his slick on one fide, and availed himself of arm on
the other, Lucy followed us, leaning most affectionately on her husband’s. who urged her with a. thousand tender exprelfions to go home, thinking (lie had walked too long.
. ^
On a Sudden we, were 'alarmed by the firing of a. pistol close by my Sister, who Screamed out,
“Oh I my Dafhwood! lave my dashwoodj.” ' and fainted. ^
He caught her in his arms, .crying out for help.
At that instant we saw a female figure rush along the walk behind the trees, from whence the pistol had been discharged. Some men; who had;
O 3 been
L i’; 8 ]
»
been digging a pond at a little distance ran after her, overtook her, and brought her back. — Never had I Seen Such an object. Imagine one of the moll lovely faces in the world; this moment pale as death through terror, the next flushed like crimson
with rage and Shame. -- -- -- dashwood having
Seated, his wife on the grass, and supported her on his bosom, casl a look of horror and anguish at the beautiful fury, and exclaimed, “Infamous wretch I is it you who have dared to make an attack upon, the life of the dearest, .gehtleft, belt of creatures?” — presling his lips to lucy’s, cold face. — “Speak to me, my angel,, my love j, tell: me where you are hurt.” — Then turning, to my father, ‘‘for heaven’s sake. Sir — continued he — let that monster be Secured, or there is no saying what mischief She may do.”
My father. Stood for some moments,, like myself, Stupified with wonder. — The lady then — for Surely she was exceedingly like one, bating her furious behaviour— — cried, “You are right, Sir; T do intend to do everything in my power to revenge the insolent contempt you have Shown for me,, by preferring your wife to me; though you once Swore that you never loved her; nay that She was your aversion, and that you married her merely for her money, by which you might be the better enabled to maintain me and my child.
. — You well know that 1 Speak, nothing but the truth, dashwood; though you have not. courage to own it before people who were not till now ac qiiainted with your dissembling arts.”
During
[ 09 ]
During this speech, which was delivered with great rapidity,, her face glowing whth rage, and her fine black eyes darting fire, my father and I Stood looking at her with amazement.
dashwood, apprehending, I llippofe, that my Sister would be extremely Shocked at So unexpected a discovery, and terrified to think of the consequences with which her fright would probably be attended, folded her close to his bosom, and Said,. “My dearest creature don’t be alarmed. — I have not, I confess, been sounexceptionable in every refpett as 1 ought to have been to deserve your love; yet believe me, my angel, I have never ceased to dote upon you; ever Since the blested hour which made you mine have I felt a warm increase of affection. But for god’s sake — added he, looking on me and Sir Robert — let a surgeon
be fetched inslantly. -- If my dear wife is not
wounded by that devil — fortunately the bullet had only grazed her hat) — it may be proper, at leasl, to bleed her?”
“Your wife — replied my Aether,, exquh site contempt — cursed be the hour that gave my child to such a villain. — But yet, thank Heaven 1. She has a father to protect her innocence.”
Here, partly by grief,, partly by anger,, his voice was. Stopped. — My filler, who had. not yet spoke; raised her languid head from dafhwood’s bosom, .and Said, “Oh,. Sir! do not condemn him. unheard; he has ever been good and kind to me, - — Oh. do not — do not reproach him.” — She could not pror ceed. — dashwood, indeed, would not Suffer her; for, catching her again in his. arms, he almosl
devoured.
[ io ]
devoured her with kistes j thanked her over am over tor condescending to plead for him; begge her to be composed, and entreated her to tell hir whether she was hurt— — him She was not She again laid her head gently on his bosom, with out casting a look at her rival, without saying word to her, while She was Still held by two of th men, from whom She Strugvgled to get loose -** desired those men to Secure her, till h had conveyed my Sister home. When She fa' him bestow So many endearments on his wife, Sli turned pale, and Seemed as ready to faint as nn Sister had been, — My father called to her conductors, and bade them take care not to let her. escay from them: telling them that they Should be ar fwerable for her, if he did not find her when t got to the house.
As soon as She was out of sight — for she mac no resiftance after those orders to the people wt led her along — my father looked more than om at my Sister with inexprelhble grief in his count nance, and as often at Dafhwood, with anger m to be described. — Then taking my Sister hastily b the arm jull as dashwood had railed her from tt ground — Come away, come away Said he fond, foolish girl, and learn to despife a man wl has dared to use you in So Scandalous a manner.” dashwood, tenderly receiving her again in h arms, into which She threw herself, weeping, r plied, somewhat fiercely, “If She s your daughte She is aisomy wife; and She has never receive any Scandalous treatment from me; I have ev( loved her too fondly to merit Such severe langua^
froi
1
[ i ]
from you. — Yet I will confess— — he. Softening his voice, and speaking in that insinuating way, by which he wins all hearts — I have been to blame. — A man postested of such an angel as your dear Lucy is, ought never to have exposed her to the ungovernable fury of So vile a wretch; but if you will indulge me with your attention, I am inclined to believe that I Shall be able to remove a great part of your resentment againsl me. — I have certainly been much to blame, but never willingly. Since I knew your charming daughter; and were it postible for you to conceive the misery which I have endured upon this occasion, you would, I am persuaded, rather look on me as an object deserving your pity, j^han your indignation.”
“I will hear none of this fluff — said my father. Scarce able to articulate these words. So inflamed was he with passion— — know you are a Scoundrel, and have ruined my child.”
“Nobody but the father of my Lucy would have presumed to call me So — replied Dafhwood, with a becoming Spirit — but there is nothing added he — which I would not Suffer for her dear sake, and for her Sake alone — (Seeing her pale, weeping, and trembling) — let me entreat you. Sir, to Spare me a moment. Give me time to recover — let me astifl her in getting to the house, and then do with me what you please.”
My father was just going to return an answer, which certainly would only have made bad worse, when I interposed, and endeavoured to make him sensible of the necessity there was for rendering my sister as cafy as possible, who, Supported by dashwood

[ i82 ]
wood and me, made a Shift to walk feebly to th houle. He obliged her to Sit down twice by th way to rest her, and discovered a tenderness an anxiety about her beyond expresiion.
When they were near the door I went back to fe if my father wanted any help. — 1 pitied him, ir deed, excesfively, though I thought he had bee too hot.
dashwood — Said he, immediately on ray con ing up to him, is the greatest of all rascals, ar Shall not Sleep another night under my roof.” “My dear Sir- -- I — my Sister is too to be moved; besides, the Shock will, I sea prove fatal.”
“Oh She is lost — She is gone for ever. — B this villain Shall not Stay, Shall not, insult us, t triumphing over our misery.”
In vain did I Strive to Soften him' in my bri ther’s favour; for I really bcheve, Cecilia, and I told my father, that never was there a man mo fond of a woman than he was of my Sister. — B he would not hear me; and though I inform( him that I feared his resentment against Mr. das wood would affect her exceedingly in the cone tion She was in, he replied — “She may as wi die in that way as be Shot by his av — ' —. Ho ever, whether She lives or dies, he shan’t Stay ai longer here, ”
Accordingly, when my Sister was put to bed ai
blooded — the Surgeon having astured us that S
had received ho hurt but what her fright and co
cern had occasioned — my father Sent for das
•wood. He would have gone, indeed, direstly ir
h
[ 183 ]
her chamber, had I not held him by the coat, and and begged him, on my knees, not to give her somuch pain as to see the man whom She could not help loving, treated rougll'. With much difficulty, however, I prevci ted him from going up, for he had got one foot upon the flairs.
dashwood coming down, in consequence of the mestage I had dispatched to him, my father Slopped, and with a faltering voice bade him leave the house indantly, and never see him again.
He Started at this unexpected prohibition, and looked excessively disconcerted; but Soon recovering himself, he said, with the mosl winning accents, “I willingly Submit to your pleasure, dear Sir; but only confider, just now, the poor Suffering angel above Stairs — give yourself ieave. Sir, to think a moment about her. She is your daughter, but She is my wife. — Any apparent remistness on my part, while She is in this affecting Situation, may wound her peace more cruelly than anything which has hitherto pasted. — Suffer me, therefore, to attend her till She has got a little more strength, till She is a little more composed, and then I will do as you think befl.”
“Aye, that is, till you have wrought on her
with your d -- -- d disfembling tongue to, believe
everything you have a mind to palm upon her for truth. — No, Sir, leave my house directly— — thought you had more Spirit than to want bidding So often.”
“When I confider what your Lucy endures. Sir — replied dashwood, Still humbling himself
before
\
[ >84 ]
before my father; though I saw plainly howmact his humility cosl him, for he was pale and red bj turns; bit his lips, and lifted up his fine eyes from which the tears of resentment and tendernel Seemed ready to start— — I think of your dea daughter. Sir, I am almosl unmanned.”
“Why then — Said my father, in a tone whicl
made me tremble — I Swear by H -- -- -- -- n and eartt
that if you do not go from hence immediately, yo Shall be forced from my door; I will no longer b insulted with the sight of the vile deslroyer of i innocent child.”
“And / swear by the great G — d of H -- -- -- -- -- n
• — •replied dashwood, with all the Spirit of an ir jured man Sparkling in his eyes — that no huma power Shall compel me to leave my wife, whoi I have Sworn to love and to cherish in fickness at in health.”
“Then, by G —, answered my father, foan ing with rage — you Shall both turn out together and if She will persist in quitting her father’s hou to follow Such a contemptible scoundrel, I Swe by all that’s sacred I never more will look up( her as my child: nor Shall She, though perishit with want, and in the extremity of wretche.dnei have a Single Sixpence from me towards h relief.”
A deeper Sigh now rent poor dashwood’s h
Some, who was, I think, a more pitiable objest,
that time, than my filler. — After having Slruggb
for Some moments with his dislradling emotior
he Said, ** You Shall be obeyed. Sir; I cann
%
ventiii
t 185 ]
venture to hazard my lucy’s life by removing her in her present condition. — Do you my dear miss Grafton, my dear Sister — continued he — I will from henceforward deserve the name of brother — Do you supply the place of her Dafhwood to her. — Tell her that he will not be able to enjoy any rest till file is recovered, and believes him to be true to her alone; tell her that he would now have flown to her with all the eager haste of ardent love, had not Sir robert’s cruelty denied him that transporting satisfaq; ion. — Oh! tell her, my good, kind friend, everything that I would' say myself, were I blessed enough to watch by her dear Side, and to endeavour to compose her agitated mind, that the health of the befl of women may not be entirely destroyed by her unhappi ness.”
With these words, which were delivered in a tremulous voice, while tears rolled down his manly face, he prested my hand, and departed from the house.
As soon as he was gone my father asked whither the vile creature was carried. On being told that She had been in fits in the back parlour ever Since they had brought her to the house, in which a servant, who had waited on mils Bellers, had been endeavouring to recover her, he ordered her, before She was well come to herself, to be carried home, and ftriq; ly watched, that She might make no farther attempts upon his family.
vol. II P I had
[ 186 ]'
I had now time to go up to my iisler; but I • mull; reserve my account of her for another letter, which you will, I believe, in a Short time, have from
Your ever aflfefitionate,
B. G.
LETTER LVI
From the Same to the Same.
WEI EN I ent^ed lucy’s chamber I found
her very ill indeed; yet the sirsl question ' was, “Where is Mr. dashwood ?” — I sat down by her, and in the fevvell; words I could make use of (in the delivery of which I endeavoured to Soften his harsh behaviour as well as I could) told her that my father would not, at present. Suffer Mr. dashwood to.be with her— — intelligence, in spite of all ray caution, affected her too much. ^ I therefore commended her dafhwood’s carriage, which I really thought had been meritorious; for highly provoked as he was, he kept up a becoming dignity; and the tenderness which he discovered for his Lucy, made me compassionate him from my heart in his very trying Situation. — In consequence of that compaslion, and of my sin 'cerest regard for my Sister, * I Said everything in my power to make her easy : but though She assumed a resigned air, I plainly perceived that She suffered extremely. — My apprehensions about her were well confirmed, for She mifearried before
morning.
[ isy ]
morning. The doctor, indeed, gives us hopesj but I own I think She is in a dangerous way.
dasiiwood sends almost every half hour to know how She does. — His messages Seem to give her more pleasure than anything. — I have received a ^ long letter from him, in which there is a full account of his affair with this violent woman from the
commencement of it. — I am to ihev/ it to my filler as Soon as She is able, in my opinion, to bear the emotions which it will probably excite in her, ■ — The Sweet boy we saw at Ranelagh was hisy he has got him from miss Bellers, and imputes her Icle outrageous behaviour chiefly to the Seizure of her Son; jhe also is extremely ill at her
lodgings. -- Dalhwood has taken an apartment
quite on the other Side of the country, though at about an equal distance from us. — He has sent a very fubmistive letter to my father; and two or three times a day dispatches the tenderesl notes imaginable to Lucy; they have luckily a good
effect: on her. — I heartily wish that my father
_ <
may be brought to relent, and to permit dash wood to return to her. — Lord Budworth has been here; but my father would not receive him : his lordship therefore wrote to him. — But what apology, says Sir Robert, can be made for So inexcusable a condubt? — Certainly there is a great
deal to be Said against the firsl beginning of this unfortunate attachment; but at present, I think, my brother ought to be forgiven, as he discovers So much concern — imcere cdncern I will venture to add — for his foibles. — I begin, my dear, to
B 2 suspect
r
[ i88 ]
suspect every man of being guilty of tills parti cular yon— — know what I mean, except lore Charbury; yet possibly it was the attachment t( Some favourite miftress which made him soloth t( marry. ““Bless me 1 what uncommon good fortum have I had I — How lucky was Mrs. ash’s letter te me! — ‘the discovery produced by that letter however, has been very detrimentai to poor Dash wood; for my father now openly declares thi there is not a young fellow in the three kingdom worth hanging; and he Still Swears in the mol tremendous manner that if my filler persists in de firing to live with her husband, he never will loo] on her again, nor own her for his child, — Ma; H — — n make him sensible of the cruelty of fuel a proceeding, and incline him to pardon Dash wood! — not only to pardon him, but to receiv him as his Son. — I wilh moult earnestly for a re conciliation, as well for my brother’s as my fisler' sake. — How few husbands, though ever somud to blame, would bear such treatment from th fathers of their wives! — dashwood’s fubmisfiv behaviour more than anything convinces me C the Sincerity of his affection for my dear Lucy, ~ She is just now waked out of a doz, e, into which, She had happily fallen. — I mull therefore la down my pen, that I may go and administer t her all the comfort in my power,
LETTER
E 189 ]
L E T T E JR LVII
The Honourable Edward Dash WOOD to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
I AM going to repeat my thanks for your late visit; never was there, my dear moslyn, a visit better timed; the company of such a friend upon such an occasion is to be estimated in a particular manner.
My angel Lucy is out of danger; with a loss indeed which I cannot help lamenting; but most gratefully do I offer up my acknowledgments to heaven for her preservation. — ’tis very hard — his very hard to be denied the heartfelt faj; isfa£tion of feeing her, of watching by hertide, and of giving' her the Strongest proofs of my un.ilterab!e tenderness; but as Sir Robert is ib violently incensed against me, and as I do really think I in'some measure deserve correction from hiin, ^! am the, more ready to put up with his galling treatment; Stilt more So on my dear lucy’s account, ’who must be a considerable Sufferer in point 'of fortune, if I take her from her father, — No — i'.will not involve her in my ruin. As much as I' languish for her Sweet Society, I will deprive m}felf of my foul’s only joy rather than make her feel the weight of her father’s displeasure— — her live in peage, in asiuence under his paternal roof, while I, banish -- ed from all I love, comfort myself with the thoughts of having preferred /^er 'happinefs to my
own.
f3: That:
V
[ 190 ]
That abominable wretch — I cannot bring myself to write her detesled name — has been delirious ever Since; She was Carried home yesterday— — was undoubtedly out of her senses when She attempted to commit sohorrid an action, the remembrance of which makes me, at this moment, Shudder.
Yesterday She came to herself (but is Still in a high fever) and confested before Sir Robert, my father, and Mr. goldsby, the acting juilice here, whom Sir Robert took with him on purpose, everything that has pasted between her and me with much clearness, and in a concise manner; concluding in the following terms : “When I found that Mrs. dashwood had entirely gained his asfections from me,, I was not a little mortified) chagrined, and provoked; but when he took awaj my boy from me, I grew quite desperate. In consequence of the various emotions, all of the torturing kind, which I felt, I took lodgings at : very retired farmhouse in the neighbourhood pretending to be a foreigner. — There I practifei the firing of a pislol, ordering Else to tell the peo pie that women abroad were accustomed to hun with pistols, and that I had a mind to try if I couh take aim at any small birds in the fields, in which Spent the greatest part of the day, when thi weather was favourable. — As Soon as 1 thought ' w’^as pretty expeit in my exercise, I frequented Si robert’s Park, the avenues to which were neve Shut up but at particular times, and frequent! Saw Mrs. dashwood, miss Grafton, and Mr dashwood walking, but never could get nea
enough
[ II ]
enough, for fear of being discovered, till the day on which I made my vile attempt. I was, however, So terrified, and So disconcerted, that I was hardly capable of executing my design, and it was undoubtedly my tremor which prevented the execution of it— — of my own life without Mr. dashwood, I wished to get rid of it; but I was also determined, smarting as I was under my Severe disappointments, to destroy her firsl, who had occasioned them.” — What an inhuman monster!
My father, who communicated this account to. me, told me also that when She had uttered the above words. She turned from; them — being in bed— — could not be prevailed on to say more, though Mr goldsby made use of a great many Sensible and pathetic remonstrances, to perfuade her to repent of her pasl errors, and to preserve her iife instead of destroying it — (She had made Several attempts against it) — that She might have more time to prove the Sincerity of her amendment, and to make herself worthy of pardon in the eye of the Father of Mercy. — As She would make no answer, they soon aftewards left her.
Deprived of the Sight of my Lucy L am fushcir ently unhappythe behaviour of her father to mine has made me more So. — Their meeting at miss bellers’s was accidental; for Sir Robert not only refused to admit my father when he called on him, but was rude enough to return no answer to his letter, — He treated him like an utter Stranger, though Mr. goldsby, who is their common neighbour, Strove to convince Sir Robert that he had
carried
[ 192 ]
carried things with too high a hand, by Ihewing a contempt for that good breeding which is due from one gentleman to another. — Lord Bud'worth is not Surely to answer for the vices and follies of his Son; he wants no addition to the disquietude which he feels on that fon’s account. — Thus you see, Moftyn, I receive Severe chasliz ement from every quarter. — Certain am I that, tortured as my mind is at present, the remembrance of all my past unlawful pleasures is painful beyond expression— — beyond endurance. — One satisfaction, however, is left for me — the Safety of my boy; my poor dear Ned is not, thank God, .in the hands of his horrid mother. — I Sent Hopkins for him yeslerday, as I intend to remain at this
little dwelling.' — I have agreed to take the apart
^ *
I occupy at present, by the month. — I miji be near my Lucy. — May time and my Sincere contrition Soften Sir Robert in my favour! — I cannot bear the thoughts of' taking her from her family, and by So doing, of depriving her of a child’s right, an eldelf daughter’s right to his affection— — mjfelf I could live happy in the most obscure, in the meanesl cottage; but I mnft not be instrumental to her being reduced to So degrading, So unde Serve da Situation; what a Situation for her who has been bred up in the raidst' ef affluence, and who enjoyed the gratification of her excellent heart’s every wish — before She knew me.
While I am thus circumstanced, Ned will help me to pass away my lonely hours, and Save me from the horrors of despair. — The dear little fellow
[ 193 I
low Seems overjoyed to be with me; it is, indeed, chiefly on his account that I refused to accept of my sather’s invitation; who, though he has Smartiy and properly lectured me about my part: conduct, has also treated me with lenity and compassion which increases my veneration, esleem, and love for him. — “The mudness with which he delivered his reproofs, makes a deeper imprefllonon me, than if he had aisumed the fterness of an unforgiving parent; and every gently correcting word went like an arrow to my heart. — Were ail parents like lord Budworth, sewer Sons would be forgetful of their filial duty. — But yet I cannot carry my boy to his house, There would be, I think, a want of decency in Such a Step at present, and it might render ray lord liable to Still groster insulta from Sir Robert, who does not atat all like a gentleman, However, as he is the father of my dear Lucy, my gentle amiable wife, I will Spare him. Most probably his disregard of me and mine, arises entirely from his aflpedlion for this valuable daughter, who has been, he believes, injured, and who has, indeed, been much injured by me. — May She but recover, may She be at length reslored to my longing arms, and every hour of my future life shall be Spent in Striving to deserve her love, and promote her felicity.
♦
LI

L E T[
[ ]
LETTER LVIII
From the same to the same.
My dear creature is a vafl deal better. — 'I
have this moment received a long and mod affectionate letter from her, in which She tells me that ihe will come to me as Soon as She is able to leave her chamber, and Share my fortune, what ^ever it be; as She must, She says, be happier with me anywhere, than to live So cruelly Separated from me. — I am going to give her my reasons foi oppofng So charming a condescension, unless Sii robert’s consert accompanies it, and then I Shall receive her with the highesl pleasure.
My father came in this morning, and caught m lying on the ground, playing with Ned, who wa rolling over me. — Shall I confess, moslyn, that. was ready, through false Sliame, to send my bo; away ?- But my father perceiving my design called the child to him, and asked him whose bo; he was,
“My papa’s, ” replied be, Smiling..
And who is your papa ?”
** My dear Dafhwood, ” cried he, getting up i my lap, and taking me round my neck.
“How now, you young rogue — Said my lor — has your father, taught you no more respect fc him ?” ^
The poor child coloured, and indeed sodid 1 for he had been used to hear his mother call me Sc and therefore knew no better.
M
'[ 195 ]
My lord pitied us; for he turned from us, and wiped his eyes. — Then calling the child to him, aflced him what book he was in.
My little Ned was again at a loss; for his mother never had any idea of teaching him to read herself, nor would She ever fusfer anybody elfe to
instruct him. — And you may be sure I had some
_
elfe to do, when I visited her, than to play the part of a fchool master. — As the poor child, therefore, was quite a blameless object, I inter posed to Save him from confusion, and told my lord that he had never learned his letters,
Fie, dashwood — Said my father — how could you bear to see your child So neglected r — Here, my pretty fellow — continued he — here is some money for you; when you can read like a man I will give you more.”
The child smiled on him, took the guinea, which he held out to him, and running to me with it, said“ “papa, if you will Show me how to read I will give it to ^ouj for then 1 shall get more.”
I could not Stand it, Frank. — Tears rushed into
\ '
my eyes, and I clasped the dear, fensible, neglected innocent to my boforn. — Meanwhile my father hurried out of the heuse— — soon as I recovered myself, I began to teach my fon to spell— — enclosed is a copy of the letter which I have Sent to my wife.
f
LET
V
[ 196 ]
f
LETTER LIX
Mr. Dashwood to Mrs. Dashwood.
WHAT transport, my ever dear Lucy, di(
I receive from your affedlionate letter, ani how often did I pour forth my fervent thanksgiving for your recovery, while I kisted the dear pape which soamply confirmed it; for surely, my love you mull be quite well, or you could not havi thought of leaving your father’s house; but on n( account Shall you quit it without his approbation you Shall not expose yourself to his resentment foi my sake. — — I am very undeserving of such a proo of your affection; father let me Spend my loneh hours in penitence for my past errors, and in wish' ing I had merited the regard you have ever Shewr for me, than draw you into difficulties, and tea: you from the bosom of a father whose joy you havf always been, and who may, by and by perhaps, b( convinced of the Sincerity of my repentance, anc wish as earnestly as we do ourselves, to (ee us rt united. — Let not my dearest girl imagine that I d( not mofl ardently long to have her with me, because I cannot bear to thinlc of her injuring herself on my account— — have been my Sufferings during your illness, and moft eagerly would I fl) to your arms this moment, could 1 fly to them with prudence. — Nothing can equal the satissadlion I feel at your recovery; and your dear Society would fill my fond breast with raptures inexpresfible. — The raptures which I have felt, I Still fervently hope to feel again, when the Storm which has cru[
[ ]
elly divided us is blown over. — I Should be Supremely happy to See myself received again as usual by my lucy’s Samily, when they are Satisfied about my reformation; but I Should also be extremely pained to find her, from her attachment to one soundeserving of her love, slighted and neglected by' her father, and in consequence of his disregard treated with coldness by everybody. — No, my Sweet girl, never can I Support Such a mortifying change. — It would, indeed, soperpetually diflress my mind, that I should be truly miserable. — The remembrance too of what my Lucy had done for her dashwood, who can never bs happy without the certainty of being beloved by her with a tenderness equal to his own, might, perhaps, weaken her fensations in his favour. — Be assured, my amiable wife, I write not in this manner, in order to conceal a growing inclination for the company of any other woman. — Yourself only can ever engage my attention. — If you distrust me, Lucy, you may easily have your doubts concerning ray Sincerity removed, by employing whom ever you please to watch my every motion. — But how can I imagine that suspicion even insinuates herfeif into sofaithful, sogenerous a bosom!! — my angel, as you never suspefiled me when my behaviour was but two censurable and unguarded, you will, I am Sure, think me now as innocent as I .really declare myself to be; you will consequently believe that I Spend my tedious hours, absent from all I love, in wishing for happier days; in Sighing to fold my life, my everything dear to me, in my doting arms;
vol. II CL and
«
[ 198 ]
and to give her the Strongest asturanees in my power that fly is dearer than ever to her
Eternally faithful
Dashwood.
P. S. Whatever warm expresiions your father may make use of, my dearest, with regard to me do not seem to be hurt by them; let them not give you any disturbance. I.shall not be less worthy ol your esteem for his injurious opinion of me : bul I may render myself much more soby my submis fion and respect— — he is your father, my Lucy; he has ever been, and is Still very kind and indulgent to you; he has been affronted by me, though, perhaps, not sogrossly as he imagines; foi I never saw that wretched woman, after I begar to love you, without the greatest regret; and hac it not been for the poor child, who innocently Suffers for my folly, 1 never would have Seen hei again. — I did not behold her again when I had got away my boy from her. — By taking away my Son ] have made her desperate— — fly recovers, therefore. She will, probably, wreak her revenge againsl us both in a new Shape. — Be upon your guard, then my angel; and, for my Sake, do all you can tc •preserve a life infinitely dearer to me than my own, — These are the terrors which now alone disturb me; and they are Sometimes So violent that I am .almost distracted by them. — Once more, my Lucy take the utmost care of yourself, if you have the
ieast tenderness for your dashwood.
L E T
«
[ I
LETTER LX
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
My sifter’s health is quite re eftablished; I wish'
I could add that her mind was at ease; but my father still remains inflexibly averse to a reconciliation with dashwood; he will not even hear him named. This unrelenting behaviour of his cuts poor Lucy to the heart, who is doatingly fond, of him, and scarce knows how to bear his absence. — She would willingly have left my father, and have gone to her husband — (and I Should not have blamed such a Step if She had taken it); — but he will not, from a point of delicacy, permit her to carry So undutisul a design into execution. He cannot endure the thoughts of her lestening herself in her father’s eyes, nor of her rifquing the. loss of his affection for him. — Sir Robert grows, I think, more and more inveterate against his fon, who has really behaved unexceptionably Since the late unhappy event; and, by what I can learn, he behaved So a long time before. — Lucy calls me — I will conclude by and by.
In Continuation.
Bless me, my dear! My Sister has been with me, all in tears, to tell me that my father, having caught her writing to dashwood, threatened to turn her out of doors, if She persifted in corresponding with him. — She declares She would gladly take him at his word to be at liberty to go to her ' husband, did not that husband’s entreaties, added ^ her father’s horrid asteverations, make her dea
_
[ 200 ]
firous of Staying where She was, and of endeavouring to wait with patience for the arrival of happi er days. — While I was making use of all my efforts to comfort her, a Servant came in a hurry from lord Charbury — (I thought he was in Herefordshire) — begging me to come away immediately, if I would see his lady alive, who had beer hurt by a fall down flairs, lay dangerously ill, ani called every moment for me. — He added that thej had not been returned two days, that my lord was Just going to See Mr. Dafhwood, when my lady running after him to Speak to him, fell by the shipping of her foot. — There are no hopes of her recovery, I find.
LETTER LXI
From the same to the Same.
POOR lady Charbury is no more. — I hav hardly strength or Spirits left to relate the mc' lancholy scene— — I will try, for I can thinl of nothing elfe.
1 flopped into the chariot the moment it was rea dy, about twelve o’clock, and was soon whirled int( the courtyard at Elm park. — I was Soon too at th( top of the flairs; but I trembled So that I could hard ly support myself.
When the servant opened the door I Saw the poo unfortunate young creature hastening to her difsoJution, the approaches of which were Strongly painted in her face. — My lord was sitting upon th( bed, holding One of her hands, while She slretch ed out the other to me, but could not speak— — part I was as unable to articulate a Syllable.;
H It
[ 201 ]
My lord bowed, and said, in a faltering voice, ** You are very good, miss Grafton.” — He seemed to be violently agitated, and frequently put his poor gonftantia’s hand to his lips, while Jhe fixed her dying eyes alternately on us both; only saying, in accents hardly intelligible, “I die contented. Since I see my dear, dear lord, and my friend near me. — Oh! my dear miss Grafton — continued She — say and do what you can to comfort my lord.”
I hung my head, and blushed excessively;; could only press her poor cold hand in return.
Raising herself as well as She could in her weak condition. She threw her arms round her charbu ry’s neck, and cried, “Farewell forever, my dear lord. — May Heaven bless you for ali your goodness to your constantia.” — Then, finking upon her pillow, file expired without a Single groan..
I cannot tell you what pasted immediately. — I sat quite Slupified in my chair, equally unable to Speak or to Stir. — I was, at last, roused by Some drops administered to me by my lord, who gave me his hand to lead me into another room. — Neither of us, however, spoke for sometime. — Recovering himself,, length,, a little,, he made a confused kind of an apology for having Sent for me in So abrupt a manner,, and for having expofedme to So terrible a Shock. — ‘‘ But' I could not — I' could not — added, he— — the poor creature drawing towards the end of her. existence, without giving, her the satisfaction which She soearnestly desired. — You were ever most affectionately regarded by
her, ' madam, and She never forgot her obligations
to you. — May / venture to hope that you will ho
(L nour
[ 202 ]
nour me with the friendship with which you made my amiable conslantia So happy ?”
I bowed a reply, and inllantly gave a turn to the conversation, by asking particulars concerning the dreadful accident. My lord’s information was pretty much like that which I had received from his servant; he only added, that he feared her death was haslened by her pregnancy.
1 then rose to go. — He led me to the carriage, and opened his mouth several times to Speak, but closed it again, without uttering a word. — He looked exceedingly dislrested, and my Silly heart sighed to relieve him, while my tears flowed for the poor young creature, who had been So precipitately snatched from all her joys in the bloom and pride of youth.. How fleeting, how precarious is everything in this world! — I really have, of late, met with somany disgusting occurrences, that I am almost weary of my life. — My spirits are sofatigued, I cannot, posiibly, proceed.,
LETTER LXII
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to Sb
Francis Mos t y n, Bart.
OH, my friend 1 my Moftyn, never was there
So happy a fellow as your dashwood. — 1 have thousand things to communicate which have given me pleasure; but an unexpected interview with Lucy has filled me with joy unutterable. — In the first place, however, let me tell you that 1 became more easy by hearing that Die had left thi;
pan
[ 203 ]
part of the country. — Her fever falling upon her Spirits She vras judged to be in a decline, and is gone, by her physicians order, to Bristol, to try the waters of the Salutary Spring there; but though there can be no hopes of her returning alive, I will not — I cannot — say that I felt any satisfa6lion upon the occaslon. I could not hear of the probably approaching death of a poor creature, who had sooften made me happy, and to whose misery 1 believed myself accessary, without considerable emotions of the compastionating kind. While I eagerly kisted her charming boy, tears of contrition and anguish rushed into my eyes, and watered his innocent face. The sweet child wiped them away with his pretty hands, and Said, ‘‘ don’t cry, my dear papa; your little Ned will always love you dearly.” Setting down the aifefting prattler I bade him go and amuse himself; but he could nether mind his play nor anything elfe till I grew less disturbed. — By reflection I soon came to myself, and I found my heart lighter than ever, when I considered that my dear wife would not be thrown again into a dangerous Situation by miss bellers’s outrageous behaviour. — How cruelly have I been alarmed Since the vile attempt with the pislol!
In the evening I took a walk with my boy, in order to reward him for his aflpection for me. — Before I was aware my feet brought me to Sir robert’s Park; the gate for foot pastengers was open. Ned, with all the curiosity of a child of his age, ran in, crying, “Here is a pretty place,, papa.” — I called him back, but he ran on; I then pursued him that I might bring him away. At a little distance I Saw my Lucy. — H — ns! how my heart
i 204 ]
t
bounded with delight. I longed to approach her, but was afraid, not knowing if She would approve of my advancing. — I therefore flood flilb waiting for her coming nearer to me. — I then called the boy, who was jumping in the grass, and loudly, rather angrily, bade him come outbut the heedless little rogue did not mind me. — At that instant, Lucy, hearing my voice. Stepped hastily forwards to me. My love then overcame my fear. — I flew to her, and with a Sigh, which only breathed my name. She flung herself into my arms. Oh, G — d what transport! what ecflasy! — I Scarce knew what I Said or. didj but clasping her close to ray bosom almost devoured her with eager kisies, ^ rapidly repeated. — — raising her. languid head,. She ar gain reclined it on my Shoulder.; and then throwing her Snowy arms round my neck, cried, “My life,, niy Soul, my dashwoods’ — “My love, .my angel, r I replied — I could Say no more..
We, continued in this attitude,, embracing, and embraced, till Ned, having lost me, ran up to me,
Screaming, “p^p^l papa!” — I Started at being soSaluted at So improper a time, and turned fiercely to chide him. — “don’t Speak harshly. to him — Said my adorable Lucy — is he not yours ?” — Stoops ing down immediately, ‘‘ Come hither my love, ” continued She.
The poor boy Stood abashed, colouring, and looking first at her, and then on me.
Charmed with her Sweet condescenfibn, I Said to him, “Why don’t you go to the lady?”
The child,, having only waited for my leave, flew into her arms, open to receive him, and She greffed him, happy rogue, to her delicious bosom.
Will
t 205 ]
0
W ill you be my boy, my dear — said She, with her sweet enchanting voice — Shall I be your mama
‘‘ Yes, madam — replied Ned — if you please“
“fellow — said the dear girl, killing him — ask your papa to let you be mine.”
He then ran to me, and I led him back, but could not Speak; her angelic behaviour had almosl deprived me of my senses. — She caught him in her arms, and looking at us both, said, What a picture of my dashwood !”
** Set him down, my dearesl creature — answer ed I — he is too heavy for you; I hope we Shall have many Such resemblances. Yet what do I not deserve for having occasioned our present disappointment.”
She blushed, and taking hold of my hand, told me She was quite happy in being with me. — We then walked forward, and talked over our Situation, while Ned took postesiion of one of the flaps of my coat.
When I had a thousand times exprested the transports which I felt on feeing her, and on enjoying her charming conversation again, I repeatedly persuaded her not to add fuel to Sir robert’s resentment on my account. — After having mutually protested to be eternally faithful to each other, and to love each other to the lasl moments of our lives, we thought it prudent to Separate, lest we Should be discovered; not without promising, however, to meet again in the Same place the following evening. Lucy again kisted my boy, and told him that She would bring Some cakes to him.
Before
[ 206 ]
Before I tore myself away from heir She ac tjuainted me with lady charbury’s death— — next morning I received a card from his lordship, in which he earnestly desired to see me, as he could not properly make me a visit, according to his intentions.
I called on him. — — He kept me a great while, talking of Bab, with whom, I find, he is Still more enamoured than ever 5 but he infists upon my not discovering, his Sentiments about her, at least not yet. — He was exceedingly friendly, made me an offer of his house, and even very much pressed me to Stay with him then, and to send for my little Ned, being, he added, very fond ’of children. He Spoke very handsomely of his wife, and with a great deal of concern about her; saying, that the manner and fuddenness of her death had Shocked him prodigiously. — He appeared, however, not a little plcased to find that my fister was not going to be married to Mr. ash.
The promised hour approaches. — I Should be in the Park long before the appointed time, to contemplate upon my yesterday’s exquisite felicity.
i
LETTER LXIII
From the same to the same.
More raptures 1 — Nothing but rapture,
my friend, can arise from a conversation with the most enchanting of women. — I had wandered, however, above an hour, I believe, before
[ 20?7 ]
the dear girl appeared, and then Saw her hurrying, almost out of breath.
She began with an apology for having made me wait. — I Slopped her charming mouth with kistes, and led her to a mosty seat, but would not let her speak, tiil She had a little recovered herself— — was contented with the thousand dimpling Smiles which played about her Sweet face, while She lislened to the tenderesl esfuslons that ever istued from a transported heart, intoxicated with its happiness. Yet I could not help Sighing to see her look So pale, after the illness which I had brought upon her. I Sighed, though her paleness, indeed, gave a new delicacy to her elegant complexion: but nothing could equal the richness of that complexion, whenever the praises which I lavished on her threw her fine face into a glow. — With what ardour did I press her beautifully turned fingers to my lips y I could hardly bear to part with her Sweet hands, while I gaz ed on her mosl expresiive countenance, and every now and then kisted her auburn locks, blown by the evening breeze over her lovely forehead.
While I was in this manner delightfully employed, She told me She could repeat her visits to me every day, as her father had the gout flying about him, but chiefly in his feet, and could not walk sofar, at present— — then inquired after my little boy. — I informed her that I had left him Safe with Hopkins; upon which She gave me Some Sweetmeats for him, and desired me to bring him to her the next time I came. Dear, good creature! — Where is there a wife who would, in
Similar
[ 2o8 ]
similar circumstances, be sokind. So condescending, So Sorgiving? But this is not all — I never Shall, I believe, know half her worth.
The mention of my boy naturally led to a conversation about him; and in Speaking of Mm it was aimed imposhble not to take Some notice of his detested mother. — Like a fool, willing to make myself appear in a meritorious light, the better to deserve such an angel, 1 began to plume myself upon my discretion, which had prevented her from ever receiving any uneasinefs on my account, or from entertaining suspicions about my
conduct. I
• “I have been long acquainted with your attachment to miss Bellers, Said She, looking full in my face with a most bewitching Smile.
“How, ” replied I, disconcerted and Surprised. “It is very true — continued She — my dear dasliwood. — miss Bellers herself, in a letter to me here, after lord charbury’s marriage, discovered the whole affair.”
“H -- -- -- -- n’s! — cried.i, and had you patience,
had you consideration enough to keep the contents of her letter to yourself?”
“Yes, my love — replied She, with a Smile — I did not communicate them to a living creature, not even to my dear Bab.”
“Then you are indeed an angel, ” cried I, turning from her, quite ashamed of myself, and abashed, from a confeioufnefs of her Superiority.
“Nay, do not praise me for my behaviour; it has merited no encomiums, for I will own now that it cosl me a great deal to conceal the emotions
which
[ 209 ]
which I felt upon the occasion. — You had, indeed, almoll: found me out once.”
She then told me that She had just read die’s letter when I surprised her in tears; and with So much earnestness urged her to discover the cause of them.
Poor, dear, amiable sufferer! my heart bleeds this moment, to think of what She has endured for my sake.
I could not help pouring forth execrations against the wretched Belters; severely reproaching myself, at the Same time, for not having acquainted her with my unfortunate attachment.
Laying her Soft white hand on my mouth. She bade me Spare an unhappy woman, whose greatest misery must have arisen, after the loss of virtue, from the loss of me.
I Swear, Moftyn, her noble behaviour almost deprived me of speech and motion. — * My head dropped on her Shoulder, while She threw her arm round me, and prested me to her lovely bosom— — that ecstatic moment I had looked on her as Something more than mortal; but the delicious sensations thrilling thro’ my veins on being So atfetuonately encircled, convinced me susect ently that She was indeed a woman as beautiful as She was good.
As soon as I recovered myself a little, I asked her to let me see the vile letter, which could not but have given her considerable uneasiness.
She astured me that She had burnt it directly, and that She would not have pained pie with the contents of it for the world.
vol. II R Were
[ 210 ]
Were, all wives like mine, moslyn, marriage would be indeed a blested Slate; a heaven on earth.
I sat, for sometime, buried in aflonishment, loll in Silent adoration, forgetting everything. —
At lasl, catching her again in my arms, I found her clothes damp with the evening dew. I rose instantly, and, fearing She Should take cold, insisted upon her going home, though mosl sorry to be under a necestity of pressing her to leave me; but her health was at Slake, and my regard for that Swallowed up ail felfish motives. — She rose and took hold of my arm, and we walked slowly towards the house— — was almost dusk, and nobody appeared; but when we came within about a hundred yards of it. She withdrew her arm, and said, ‘‘ Good night, my love; Shall I see you again tomorrow?” ?”
“will not take leave of you — said I— — her hand; I can Steal into your apartment unperceived.”
“Oh! not for the world! — replied She, looking frighted — though my father does not leave the parlour till he goes to bed, yet some of the servants may see you; and I would not, on any account, have you insulted by him again— — let me go home with you
“No, my dearesl — said I — not to nightwe will think on some scheme. I am sure if you go to supper in the parlour as usual, I can slip upstairs while the servants are employed in waiting, and carrying in the things; and if I Should meet with
Ridley
[ II ]
Ridley (her woman) I can Secure her in my
interest.”
She Smiled, and trembled with fear and delight. • — I killed her hand, and begged her to go into the
house— — “my love,, will produce fuspi cion.”
“What will you do for Supper ?” Said She, in a pitying tone.
‘‘ feast on your beauties, my angel, ” answered I, once more embracing her.
She then broke from me, blushing, and ran into the house; I waited till they were all quiet, and then Stepped Softly upstairs.
Luckily, the apartment allotted to my wife and me was in one of the wings, which is very large, and opposite to that occupied by Sir Robert. — However, when I entered the chamber, Ridley, who was employed about her lady’s things. Started as if She had Seen a ghosl, and was, I believe, ready to Shriek; but I soon made her fensible of the necesiity there was for her being both quiet and secret— — She is very much attached to my wife. She exprested great Satisfaction at feeing me there, and left me in peaceabie postestion of my post.
I employed myself, while I was alone, in looking over part of my wife’s night dress, which was’ laid ready for herj in admiring the elegance of her
taste. — But, H -- -- -- nsl what were my transports'
when She herself appeared! when I folded her in my longing arms! when I enjoyed all the repose I was capable of on her downy bosoml — But I Should have proceeded.gradually.
R 2. After.
[ 212 ]
After having waited a considerable time, bridling my impatience as well as I could, I heard her Softly trip upstairs; I threw open the door hastily, and was going to embrace her, — The dear angel was loaded with jellies, a large bottle, and Some potted partridge. — When She had put them on a table, ihe took out other pocket a French roll neatly wrapped up in paper, and Some Iweetmeats.
1 have brought you your Supper, ” Said She, Smiling.
“My dear life — said I, paslionately caresling her - — what trouble has your exquisite tenderness given you! — And, indeed, Lucy, I have no sort of inclination to eat; but I am more weary than you can imagine, ” continued I, Sighing, and looking on her tenderly.
‘‘ Well 1 but do, take Some refreshment — Said the dear creature — I will eat with you if that will be any inducement. I could hardly taste any of the Supper below, because I would enjoy it with you. — I sat full of anxiety, indeed, lesl you Should be discovered.”
I ga2.ed on her with wonder and with love, and my love increased every moment; but though I wanted no food myself, I thanked her a thousand times for her tender care of me, and even bluslied to see her reduced to take such methods, which, however, fully convinced me of the Sincerity of her affection. — After having partaken of just enough of her entertainment to Show my gratitude, I told her that I looked upon that as my bridal night, as
I Should come to her arms more entirely her’s than
ever,
C 213 ]’
ever,, and infilling also upon locking Mrs. Ridley out, adding, that r would undress her myself.
She, at first, made a little opposition, but at length consented, provided I would only let her bid Ridley tell her filler that She had retired for the night. — Bab — continued She — has behaved, to me in the mosl friendly and asfedlionate manner,, and is very much attached to me. If you please, therefore, I will make her acquainted with our proceedings and designs in the morning.
O moslyn! how beautiful did She look while She Spoke; what Sweet fubmisfion was there in her dear downcasl eyea, while She requested my permisiion to let her open her whole heart to her amiable fisler 1 and with what exquisite, but mo desl, tenderness were they raised up to me, when r Strained her to my beating bosbm, which glowed' with transports never felt before !■ — I cannot, indeed, I dare not tell you half her excellencies,, lest I Should fet you madding like myself.
At break of day She urged me to leave her,, though She, at the same time, held me close in her arms. — Prudence, loth as we were to obey its call, made it necestary Sorus to Separate till the evening; but I would not go from her till She had promised to meet me again in the Park, isthe weather was not. unfavourable, as both She and' Sir Robert bad declined Seeing company after that, unhappy accident.
With the greatest reluctance I quitted her.
When I came home I found that Hopkins had! been very much alarmed, not knowing what to? think of my absence from home all night. — He;
R 3 told!
[ 214 ]
told me that my boy was in an agony of sorrow on my not returning at his usual hour of going to bed; screaming in such a manner that they could not pacify him, because his dear papa had left him, and was lost. — Poor, little, affectionate fellow 1 -- -- -- -
I ran up into his room. — He had cried himself asleep— — looked like the piqiure of Cupid; and I sat down by his Side, that he might have the happiness of feeing me the moment he opened his eyes. — The dear rogue opened his eyes at lasl; but having wearied himself with fretting about me, only cried, “Papa! ” Stretching out his pretty hands to me, and fell asleep again directly.
— The concern which this dear infant discovers for me makes me every hour remember my past follies with the keener remorse. — I am now So accustomed to the Sight of him, and am really So fond of him, that I am afraid I Shall never be able to live without him; and it will be highly improper to have him in the house with my wife.' — I Shall never be quite fatisfieds however,, unless he is near me, that / may frequently see him.' — If he is at a distance from me I Shall have no opportunity of Superintending his educatianhis morals will probably be corrupted, and I shall be deprived of every endearing proof of his filial love. — No, Moftyn,, he is my child; 1 feel, I Strongly feel that I am his father; he is blefl with sense,, he has a considerable Share of tensibility; and I would willingly have him under my own eye, in order to prevent his head from being filled with wrong ideas, and his heart from being polluted by
those
[ 215 ]
those passions which have been So fatal to my peace. — When he is at a proper age I will inform him of his birth, and endeavour to make him as easy under his illegitimacy as I can; yet I must ever Sigh to think that he is not the fon of my
dear, my truly beloved Lucy. -- I might then
have openly exulted in my paternal character.
LETTER LXIV
Miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
My spirits have been been So much depresied
ever Since the death of lady Charbury, till within these few days, that I have not been able to Sit down to do anything, and now I Shall begin with Snubbing you. — Are you not a Sad, Saucy girl, miss Cecilia, to pretend to tell me that I Shall be Soon reconciled to life, and all the good things in this world, as lord charbury’s hand is now at liberty. — I declare to you, then, that I do not believe he has a Single thought about me. — Since the mterraent of poor Constantia he has been here every day, it is true, and is very asiiduous about me, and very solicitous to please me; but a man of common politeness So frequently at our house could not well behave otherwise— — Robert, to be sure, is in high good-humour upon the frequency of his visits. — My dear, good, father has again taken it strongly into his head that he Shall see his daughter a countess— — actually the title and fortune are quite out of the question with me; but the man is as handsome as an angel
[ 2i6 ]
gel— — not cry out, Fie Bab, now) — and alrnofl as good as one in behaving So Sweetly to a woman whom he did not, I am certain, love. — I never imagined, you know, that he was desirous of marrying her; and I am convinced, by the manner in which he bears the loss of her, that I was not too hasly in my conjectures. — He behaves, indeed, with a becoming seriousness, and has undoubtedly, from the nature of his attachment to her, from his humanity, and from the circumstances attending her death, been much asfected y yet I must own, Cecilia, 1 am not thoroughly Satisfied with the little regard he pays to her memory.
I was talking in this Strain to Dalhwood the other day, and he told his friend what I said, I fancy; for he has looked grave at me ever since— — the way, I have a vast deal to tell you about this brother of mine, could I but put his friend out of my head. — Lucy and he met in the park accidentally, it Seems, and somehow he got. into her chamber. — He now Sleeps in it every night. Lucy appears to be happier than ever, and dash wood has not Spoken a rational wmrd from that time to this. — In Short, they are quite ready to devour each other, and So much intoxicated with their Stolen interviews, that they are not fit to converse with anybody elfe. — I have not Seen him. yet in the house; for they manage matters very Snugly, left my father, whose gout favours their clandestine meetings. Should interrupt their proceedings, on being informed of them; but I am. almost every day in the park with Lucy; and
while
t 217 ]
while She leans on dashwood’s arm, / Saunter with lord Charbury, who has frequently offered to Support me when I looked tired; but I have sofrequently refused his affislance, that he is, I sup pofe, disgusted— — certainly does not grieve for his wife, though he is by no means cheerful— — he does not yet think it decenl He converses freely, indeed, upon all subjects; but he seldom mentions her, never without launching out in praise of my friendship for her, and begging over and over again to have that friendship transferred to him. — What would the man be at? — • Were he to see my heart, he would have no reason to complain of me. — And yet I would not have him see it, at present, for millions. — You cannot think how well his mourning becomes him, and how aptly he accommodates his features to his clothes. — What fine languishing blue eyes he has! They almost put me out of countenance sometimes; but whenever I happen to catch them fixed on me they are thrown down with fdch a respectful timidity — O men! men! I will not say what I think of them; but it is really furprising that my father, after the escape which I have already had, and after poor lucy’s unhappy affair. Should ever entertain thoughts he certainly dues entertain, by his prodigious civility to Charbury, who pays pro -- digious court to him. — Now you know if he had any meaning in his behaviour, he Should endeavour also to make a friend of me. — No, no, my dear,
s
\ we are all upon a wrong scent— — lord has indisputably got a girl Somewhere. — Men are all alike, Cecy.
T. P T[
[ ]
LETTER LXV
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
I A M the happiesl of mortals. — My Lucy and I not only See each other every day, but almosl every hour in the day. I have gained the Servants; and as Sir Robert cannot ramble much at present I live entirely at my ease. I breakfasl with my wife, my angel, every morning; then go home, and Spend an hour with Ned; meet my dear girl again in the park or garden (for I have even ventured into the garden) before dinner; then return home, and dine with my boy, and go in Search of my Lucy, whom I leave not till the next day. — I am become quite another creature; I have now no load upon my mind, nothing to be ashamed of; I am as light as air. — My charming love too, convinced of the Sincerity of my reformation and of my fidelity to her, is happier than ever. — We pafs our days, like the first pair, in paradise.
Bab and Charbury are also perpetually together; but they do not Seem to make anything of their conversations yet; he cannot, it is true, with decency, make any offers So Soon after the death of his wife; nor will he think of making any till he imagines they will not be refused. As to my lively filter. She appears with her usual vivacity; but I can see that She is at times not sowell pleased as She seems to be; She is quite
filent.
[ 219 3
silent, however, upon this subject to Lucy; and my dear girl is, indeed, too much engaged to attend to her— — are all fond of Ned, whom I brought one day with me, at my wife’s earned re qued, to the park.
Charbury said he was a glorious boy; and looking at Bab, added, that he mud beg him, as he had not one of his own.
She did not, I thought, like that Speech; for She made up a lip at my lord. Then, taking the child in her lap, as we were Sitting on a bench. She asked him which of us two he would have for his papa.
The young rogue Smiled, and pointed at me.
Bab Said, it was a wise child who knew his own father. — Surely She cannot suppose that lord Charbury had any connexion with Die I — I actually believe he never Saw her but in public; nor do 1 imagine that he ever had any attachments like mine. — Judice obliges me to say that Bellers never gave me room to believe She was ever unfaithful to me. As much as She had didrested me, I Should think I wronged her if I charged her with infidelity. — The boy is So like me too. — Yet Bab certainly suspected lord Charbury, who, entirely undeserving of Such an attack, did not receive it as it was intended. — He loves her, I am drongly of opinion; but as there are no rivals at present, there is no occasion for his being in a hurry.
We had in the evening of that day a little concert in a temple in the park. The two charming Sisters Sung to their mandolines; I accompanied them upon the violencello, and Charbury played
the
[ 220 ]
the German flute. My Lucy warbled out fuel melting notes that they ravished my senses, and m lord, I thought, seemed no less delighted witi bab’s melodius tones. — They wiil come to a gdoi understanding, I trust, by and by.
LETTER LXVI
Mils Grafton to Miss Blondel.
There is, positively, no bearing dashwood
He is grown So horribly provoking withir these few days, that I musl leave him and his Lucy
to themselves— — hi re admiflion to her he has
#
been sodistractedly fond of her that he is perpetu aliy playing the fool, — Their fooleries may be very allowable perhaps, in private; but I am sure they Should not be exhibited before my lord, who thinks he is licensed by them to take the same liberties with me. dashwood never walks with his wife without putting her arm through his. My lord, therefore, always makes a Similar attempt upon mine; though I actually believe he does it more from imitation than inclination. — : By this behaviour of he vexes me : I pull my hand away a hundred times; he Still catches it again. — Nay, the other night, when Lucy and I had been both Singing to them at their request, Charbury absolutely Seized my hand, and carried it to his lips, while dasli wood was in bis raptures with Lucy; and because I Snatched it away in a hurry he Seemed not at all satisfied: he positively pouted. I do not understand this kind of carriage. I am just now not at all
p leafed
[ 221 ]
\
pleased with him— — Seem, indeed, to be the only', discontented person in tt party quarre.
dashwood is become a mere romp; Lucy likes everything he likes; and lord Cbarbury is quite ready to fall in with their ridiculous amusements— — ■ the music, therefore, I went and sat by myself at a distance from them. — In a Short time my lord followed me, and sat down by me. — I affected not to see him, but leaned my head upon my hand.
“Are you not well, miss Grafton ?” said he at
last.
I
“I have got the headache, my lord — replied I, rather peevishly — and Should be glad to be quiet.”
He rose immediately. Sighed, and retired to a seat a little farther osf, but where he could see me.
I Sighed too, like a Simpleton as I am, after I had sent him away, and grew out of humour with myself; consequently in humour with him. — I Strove, however, to prevent his, reading the emotions of my heart in my features; but he was soasiiduous about me as Soon as I permitted him to approach. So earnestly entreated me to lean on him to rest me as we walked homeward; prested my hand So gently, and looked So concerned for my supposed illness, that my Sickness and fretfulness— — do not know how — fled away together, and I became quite another creature. — He, as if determined to conduct himself just as / did, grew excemve ly lively ali on a hidden. — In Short, we were surprised to hear a clock Strike twelve. — I wondered every moment that he made no effort to take his leave, yet I dreaded, I confess, the moment of his departure.
vol. II S At
[ 222 ]
At length he rose, made an apology for Slaying folate, hoped my head was thoroughly well, and declared that he had not power to leave his charming friend, while She was indisposed.
I smiled, and looked foolish, I believe.
With a warmer pressure of my hand than usual, he added, ‘‘ Will you not be my friend, miss Grafton — fixing his eyes earnestly on my face — may I reckon upon sogreat a felicity
“I am the friend of every person, my lord, who merits my friendship; and while you deserve it, you may depend upon it.”
“Lovely creature !” Said he, foftiy, lifting my hand to his lips, though fearfully, and as if he was very unwilling to osfend me— — aloud, “I will always endeavour to deserve it, madam, and hope Soon to render you more sensible of my meriting it.”
When he had uttered these words he haslily quit
I
ted me, and I went up to my chamber to reflet upon them; but I cannot yet make anything of them to give me any satisfaction.
LETTER LXVII
9
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
My dear Lucy will Soon begin, I fear, to discover proofs of our reunion— — why do I say 1 fear — what will give me real transport, if She does but happily advance to the end of her time.
The
[ 223 ]
The difficulty will be to conceal her Situation from our father. — I hope, indeed, to See him reconciled entirely to me before her lying in, but there is not yet any profpe<5i of a reconciliation. He continues Still immoveably irascible, tho’ my dearest girl has more than once ventured to tell him how much She wished for his taking me into his favour again. Often have I caught her weeping upon my account.
Finding her in tears the other day, I was moved at them in a particuiar manner— — kisted them as they fell, while the dear angel, Sighing, Said, ** I cannot bear to See you make Such undue submisiions ■for my Sake.”
It is for your Sake alone — replied I — my life, that I could make them; but I am happy in being able to give you soSincere and Striking a proof of my love.”
The dear creature prested me to her bosom, and promised to resume her former cheerfulness as long as I was kind enough to make myself contented. — But I Shall not be fois She is not perfectly easy every way; Bab tells me She is often not well, and' that She is obliged to invent an excuse to get out of Sir robert’s Sight, — I pafs sometimes the greatest part of the day in her room, that I may, by contributing to her relief to the utmost of. my power, lesten the pain and uneasinefs which She. must: necestarily, and not unfrequently feel."
We were alarmed a good, deal yesterday. — As She had not been very well, Shad infisled upon her taking her breakfast in bed. — I, was actually pouring out the., tea.for her by the bedside, when I
S 2 heard
[ 224 ]
heard Sir Robert Stumping up the Stairs which led to our apartment; a place he Seldom attempts to enter; but as Lucy did net make her appearance at breakfast, he being very fond of her, came to inquire after her himself. — I had just time to retire into a clofef; but in my retreat almosl overturned the table. — I Should have faced him indeed, I believe, had not my fears for her deterred me. — However, there is Something So fcandalously mean in thus Skulking about a man’s house, and Stealing into it without his knowledge, that I cannot tell how to Support the fhabbiness of my carriage. — But a discovery at this time might prove fatal to my wife. — She has already sufficiently Suffered for me; I will, therefore, endure anything, rather than expose her again. — It is not, indeed, in my power to act otherwise; I loved her extremely before that horrid attempt, but now my life is bound up with^.^er’/. — To think of being deprived of her is distradlion.
I have found in the old woman with whom I lodge, or did lodge, to Speak with propriety, a very kind nurse and schoolmistress for my boy. — She has also exceedingly ingratiated herself with him. — The child is very good-natured, and easily pleased— — has promised to mind Mrs. Burton, and to learn to read very Soon. — I hope, therefore, to wean him from me by degrees, before I send him to School. Sorry am I that there is any necestity for his removal from me; but I cannot poslibly think of taking him into the house with me. Should my wife and I be ever happy enough to live together again. — My father is entirely of
my
r 225 “Y
my opinion with regard to ned’s removal; and * says that he Shall be with him Sometimes, provided he goes by the name of Bellers, or any other name I like better — dashwood excepted. — My lord also expressed the greatest joy of hearing of my wife’s being pregnant again; imagining that a lying in may forward a reconciliation, and joins with me in wishing heartily that no accident may destroy our hopes. — No accident of the same nature w,
I will venture to say, destroy them; for I hear from Hopkins, that the unfortunate Die is as miserable as a woman can be, tortured with remorse— — is imposiible for her to hold out much longer. — May her misery be Shortened in this world, and may Heaven look on her with an eye of. mercy in the world to come, if She expires a.
Sincere penitent. — I dare not think of her — L am too much affected by her deplorable condi..
Charbury and Bab are Still at see faw. Both Seem to be violently inclined to each other, and
yet neither of them knows how to break the ice,.
_ _ #
— I do not chuse to interpose;; have a very high opinion of Charbury; but L would rather have their atfairs conducted by themselves. — It is an. awkward business to interfere between two persons ■ in their Situation..
%
4
s3 L E T
i
[ 226 ]
LETTER lxvill.
miss Grafton to Miss Blondel.
AL L my expeq; ations with regard to lord
Charbury are over. — Yet why do I talk of expedlations! — What right had I to form any? — With what reason could I think of a man who never encouraged me to suppose that he ever bestowed a Single thought upon me. — But he is now fixed, I fancy; and I imagine that he will as soon as he lays aside his mourning put on his wedding clothes. — He is, however, obliged to us for having brought him acquainted with his new jiam(; for had he not seen her at our house, it is highly probable that he might never have seen her at all. — I could not well, without being deficient in good manners, decline Sally goldsby’s offer to take a breakfast with me before She Set out for Bath, by way of bidding me adieu; and She brought with her Such a beauty from Ireland, my dear, that She has pierced poor charbury’s heart through and through. — It must be composed of very Soft materials, Surely. However, I am quite cured of my ridiculous prepostesfion in his favour. — The man is undoubtedly handsome, and can be very entertaining when he pleases;; I would not have him fancy himself a demigod— — narcistus. — He is nobody, as to per forty compared to dashwood— — after what I have said, I Should endeavour to give you Some idea of this lovely creature, who has captivated him. — She is a long, tall,
thin.
[ 227 1
thin, aukv/ard animal, with a very fair complexion, indeed; but then She has monstrous high cheekbones, just rounded over in the middle with the ruddinefs of a Catharine pear; She has mighty Simpering lips, pretty much resembling a Skain of Scarlet Silk; her eyes are long, languishing, and of a Sky blue. — Have you not heard men talk about Such eyes, my dear? — Methinks I could write a few lines just now, which would place her before you. — Her eyebrows are thin and long too, just like her eyelashes, and her teeth are wondrous white. — In Short, I believe She may be reckoned very handsome by the men; yet I own I cannot find out her personal charms, though I am different from many women, by not being blind to beauty in my own Sex. — However, I Solemnly declare to you, that! never could find any in miss Bourke. — But poor lord Charbury was not of my way of thinking; for happening to come in soon afterwards, he was sostruck with her, that he was incapable of attending to anybody but this fine Stranger. — She actually Seemed not at all insensible — few women would, I believe, be foto Such a man, though I am soindifferent'.
Having nothing to do, 1 Sat and observed them. — He came in rather with a Serious face. It happened to be the very morning after we had Spent the evening in sofriendly a manner together, of which I gave you an account in a former letter. — I received him therefore very graciously; and my reception really seemed to give him pleasure;; that pleasure was So violently increased by the
enlivening
[ 228 ]
enlivening cortverfation of this Hibernian goddess, that he appeared to be almosl out of his senses. — He laughed immoderately ( — by the way I have hardly Seen him venture to smile Since the death of my lady) — and Jheamazingly — noddling her head like a China figure upon a chimney-piece; her eyes danced, and She threw herself into the agonies of poiitenefs. — I sat and smiled at the exhibition of So new a scene;; my lord, I believe, from my behaviour, thought i.was as much delighted with it as he was himself.
When breakfast was over, of which my lord, contrary to his usual custom, had a very considerable Share, I could not refuse to comply'with miss goldsby’s requesl, when she very modestly and politely desired me to Show her friend the gardens and park. — My lord discovered a prodigious readi ness to attend them; nay he really took as much pains to point out the different views, and to receive as much pleasure from their admiration of them, as if he had been the owner of them; every now and then offering his hand to the beauty, and catching her if file Stumbled; and I. can affure you She flumbled pretty often, on purpose, doubtless, in order to have an opportunity of being assisted by him. — He, alfb, upon their admiring the flowers, took the liberty of making nosegays for them: but miss bourke’s was the most elegant one. — He just deigned to look at me, indeed, as if to ask my leave j though by doing So you will, I. believe, allow, that he gave his eyes unnecesfary trouble.
While
[ 229 ]
%
While he was hurrying about gathering flowers, that he might lose as little as possible of the lady’s conversation, She asked me who he was.
** Lord Charbury, ” I cooly replied.
“A mighty pretty gentleman, a very pretty' gentleman indeedf^ replied She,
Scarce were these words out of her mouth when he presented the nosegay to her; and She gave him such a look, that his heart could not postibly Stand againsl the exprejfion contained in it.
When we came to the temple in the park, lucy’s mandoline and mine lay there. — >0! you play, ma’am; may I ask the favour of an air ?”
** miss Grafton not only plays, but Sings, ” Said Sally Goldfby.
“I dare Say She does— — miss Bourke — and is not your lordship a performer?”
He bowed and smiled— — up to me.
Do, my dear miss Grafton — said he— — us with your heavenly voice.” — His dear miss Grafton, indeed! mighty free and Saucy — but I was resolved to mortify him.
Without deigning to call my eyes once towards him, I said that I hoped the ladies would excuse me, as I really was unable to oblige them at that time. But 1 do not believe the wretch minded me; for on miss bourke’s taking up one of the mandolines just then, he hastily cried, “Bray, madam, oblige us; I am Sure you are a complete miftress of it.”
I could not help smiling again at his being fa Jure before he had heard her. However, the girl really Sung very well, and would have pleased most
judges,
/
m
[ 230 ]
judges, had She not been sointolerably affected. — My lord encored her, and the misses were vastly merry; I was not somyself; for I began to think that they intended to dine. — Luckily on the sun’s breaking out I complained of the heat, and pro posed returning to the house. — As Soon as we entered miss goldsby thought proper to talk of going; and I really believe my lord was ready to ask them today. — However, he was too considerate to carry the Jeff quite sofar. — But he flew to conduct miss Bourke to the carriage, leaving poor Sally and I to follow by ourselves.
When .they were gone I went up to my own room, and — O, Cecilia! how I blush to own it — : yet you muji know all my weakness— — felt my heart ready to bursl; and had I not been relieved by a Shower of tears, I Should, probably, have fainted away. — How ridiculous am I! and how do 1 defpise myself for being So fooushly attached to a man, who is totally indifferent about me. — Let me conceal my folly from everybody but from you. — I am almost afraid and ashamed to send this letter from my hands. — Yet had I not your sviendly bosom to receive my complainings, I might, perhaps, for a vent, be led to expose myself to this too lovely author of my uneasiness— — hope, however, my Cecilia, that my pride will prevent me from coming to So glaring an indiscretion.
— No — he Shall not see me look as if I
)
was uneasy— — will rather Seem pleased with miss Bourke, than discover any dislike to her. — I am even Sorry that I have drawn her in So unfavourable a light to you. — It is mean to
naint
[ 23? ]
paint anybody in contemptible colours, Who is not purposely ridiculous. I have been Strongly tempted to throw this letter into the fire; but I am not able at present to write another to my fa tisfa<5tion. — Yet you cannot think how I hate myself for ray antipathy to a girl, only because She happens to please lord Charbury, as She certainly does. — What is it to me whom be likes, or whom he dislikes? — <1 feel myself, however, excessively disconcerted about what ought to give me no Sort of disturbance. To remove myself out of his Sight is now the only remedy left for me. — I would come to you did not my father’s gout, and sifter’s Situation, forbid me to think of Such a visit— — is, at present, breeding, and consequently not always well; and as dashwood is very much alarmed lest ray father Should discover it, and fright her with his anger, I do all I can to asiift her in the concealment of her condition. — We all connive, but none of us approve of our connivance. For her Sake, however, and indeed on my brother’s account — he well deserves to be called So, for his tender and affectionate behaviour to his Lucy — I Should be extremely diftrested to have her life endangered. A Second fright would, perhaps, throw her into a bad Slate of health for the remainder of her days, and her ill health may tend to weaken his attachment to her. There is no answering for the constancy of the hest man in the world. I have, nevertheless, sohigh an opinion of dashwood, that I do not imagine anything can Shake his fidelity to my Sister, or lesten his asfection for her. He seems uneasy and fearful if the Slightest
breeze
%
[ 232 ]
breeze blows upon her, trembles if She looks but a little paler than usual; and if She is in the lead disordered confines himself the whole day to her chamber; obliges her to lie down, and reads her asleep. — After having Seen Lucy happy in So fond a husband, a less affectionate one will not content Char bury, it is certain, behaved unexcep tionably to conslantia, tho’ not with the tenderness of a dashwood. — Would I could never think of him any more!
LETTER LXIX
From the same to the Same.
0
I HAD really cried So much that I was very unfit to appear at dinner. — I went down, therefore, into the garden, hoping that the air would take off the redness of my eyes. — I saw my lord walking backwards and forwards in the grass walk with folded arms. — In order to avoid him I went round the Shrubbery, and sat down upon a little green bench by the Side of the mount. — When I had been there a few minutes he joined me. — Not being aware of him, I felt such a palpitation at my heart, that Ldid not know how to speak— — sat down by me, and very familiarly taking my hand, said“ “have you hid yourself ever Since your company left you? I have been Seeking you in every place I could think of. — But you look grave, miss Grafton; has anything happened to disquiet you ?”
I could Scarcely answer, “No; ” and it was uttered in sotremulous a tone, that he repeated it
after
[ 233 ]
after me, pressing my hand. — ** Something mufl have affetted you— — he, in plaintive .accents — in an uncommon manner.”
‘‘1 am only not in spirits, just now, my lord, ” replied'!, withdrawing my hand.
Hearing the dinner bell at that instant, I rose directly, and made all the haste I could to the house; while he talked to me all the way, running by my'fide; telling me that I Should fatigue myself, that I Should Spoil my appetite, and that
I need not be in Such a hurry. -- -- -- -1 made no
ansvver.
At dinner I Strove to do the honours of the table in^the bell manner; affecting an ease which I did not feel. — I also endeavoured to take no more notice of my lord than common civility required yet I could not help observing, that he not only examined me with particular attention, but was remarkably astiduous in his carriage to me; that attention, and his asfiduity together. Seemed to give Sir Robert great pleasure, and consequently made me sigh; being weii astured that my poor father’s expeq: ations wouid come to nothing. — However, as he deft my iord to take his nap, I was obliged to sit with him till his return. — My Sister went away to meet dasliwood.
Very Stupid companions were we to each aether. I said but little to him though to do him justice he set wits to work to amuse me; yet I could not recover my temper. — I spoke Sometimes rather peevishly to him. — The moment my father returned I rose and ran upstairs, though my lord vol. H. T caught
[ 23, 4 ]
caught my hand as I pasted him, and Said, ** Are you going to leave us?” — We have not, indeed, from the beginning, treated him with much ceremony;,; the manner in which my father invited him rendered a ceremonious behaviour quite unnecessary; for upon his Second visit to ' us, complaining how melancholy his hours were at Elm Park, Sir Robert, with much friendliness and cunning too, desired ^him'to make is house his home. — My lord asstually took him at his word, and does everything but Sleep here. — We cannot, therefore, be expected to confine ourselves with him. — I thought J heard him in the garden while .1 was writing, and was foolish enough to rise twice from my chair to go and look at him; I Saw him walking with his arms folded, as he did before dinner; he appeared to be melancholy; he was thinking, I suppose, of miss Bourke. — Pray, my dear, burn these letters, I am quite ashamed of them. — I will not positively write another word about him.
\
LETTER
0
[ ^35 ]
LETTER LXX
From the same to the Same.
POOR, dear Charbury, how I have injured him by my suspicions! — O, my Cecilia! if there is truth in many I ami ever have been the Sole poffeflbr of his heart. — ‘bear with me now, my dear girl; I Shall tyre you as much with his prfises as I have done before with his faults. — My heart is So full I know not what I write. — Lucy is come to tell me that he enquires for me. — I run, i fly to meet him. — You musl Slay, child, till I come back.
In Continuation;
It was with great difficulty that I could prevail, on him to spare me; though I astured him my business was to write to the dearest friend in the
X
world. — “You cannot have a dearer than myself” — Said he, holding both my hands, and looking Such unutterable things. — In Short, I could not get away, till I astured him that I was going to write upon a Subject with which he ought to be pleased. He wanted very much to See rny letter; but I broke from him without making any promise of any kind. — 1 am now going to give you a detail of our proceedings.
When I had finished my last letter I went down to walk in the park, as you know I usually do in a fine evening. — I would have pasted my lord, but
x2 he.
[ 236 ]
V
he immediately joined me. I alked him if he knew where, my brother and filter were.~he sliced me,, in return, if he Should wait on me to them. — As we walked along he endeavoured to draw me into conversation, but I chiefly replied in monosyllables, which 1 uttered in a low voice, and indeed without looking at him. — At last, hearing him Sigh, I could not help turning my head; he sistually appeared an object of pity, though h was f .r from believing that I had rendered him so. — • There was the mosl expressive concern, the mosl pleasing foftness in his countenance to be imagined. — I fuppose I looked as if I was affected at his appearance; for he immediately Stole his hand into mine,, and Sighed again. — His Second Sigh al most Staggered my resolution; yet I had fortitude enough to draw it back in a hurry without looking at him— — this time we reached dashwood and my filter; but they were So taken up with each other, that after the first civilities were over they had neither leisure nor inclination to mind us. I went therefore, and sat down upon one of the little green benches, on which there is barely room for two, and spi^ad my gown over it, that Charbury might not attempt to place himself by me. — He Saw my design, and Sat down on a bench on the opposite Side, leaning his head upon his hand, and appearing to give himself up to melancholy. — We were not at a great distance from each other; I saw his bosom heave; I even heard him Sigh— — became very uneasy, and began to ask myself if my behaviour was not only extremely
whimsical,
\ ^
%
[ 237 ]
whimhcal, but highly absurd,, to Say indelicate. — What right had I to be displeased with lord charbury’s taking notice of any lady; as he was not a lover of mine, I could have no reason to be angry with his carriage; and I thought I was plainly letting him see I desired to behold him in that light, by thus making him of more conse quence than he really was to me. — I actually blushed, while I sat refle6ting in this manner on my own folly; yet though I willed immediately to alter soridiculous a behaviour, I could not presently bring myself to do it. — I was soShocked, and So out of humour, that I could not command myself; and he undoubtedly penetrated into the recestes of my mind; for he rose, and coming close to me, gently took up my gown in order to sit by me; but as a little of my fogolish pride remained I Snatched it from him, and laid it down in the same place. — He hghed and looked at me for Some moments, during which I held down my head. — ^ What have I done, miss Grafton — Said he — — to offend you? — Why will you not Suifer me to sit by you ?”
“Nothing, my lord, ” replied I, half inclined to come to.
Nothing! ” — answered he. -- -- -- Will the
charming mils Grafton be displeased with me for nothing ?” — Then throwing himself on the grass at my feet, Tell me — continued he, fixing his eyes tenderly on me — why you, who have ever been socondescending, whom I have always
T 3 esteemed[
[ ]
esteemed my sincerest friend tell me why you are So cruelly changed ?”
“Pray, rise, my lord, ” *- — Said I, blushing — “l hate to see a man upon his knees.”
He rose direflly, and, with a deep Sigh,, cried, ‘"‘ I am afraid I am become a disagreeable object to you, madam, in any attitude;, but if you would only retain consideration, enough for me to let me know my faults, I do assure you L would leave nothing unattempted tojdefer.ve the return of your favour; I once flattered myself with the enjoyment of that inestimable blessing.”
This address pleafed.rae not a little, I own; bul it also perplexed me. — B could not tell what reply to make to it„ without an avowal of my jealousy— — therefore remained Silent for some moments.. Then finding that he did. not oflter to Stir, I said.. in a. Silly tone, and with, I dare believe, a Sillier face, ‘‘ I am very capricious today, my lord; I wilh you would leave me.”
And can you really be socruel as to Send me
from you — Said he — without receiving me upon a a friendly footing again ?”
“Why, have, we quarrelled then?” replied I,, plainly discovering my dissimulation; plainly prov. ing, by the manner in which I Spoke, I was not really in the least angry with him.
“I never have quarrelled, I never can quarrel with the dear lovely miss Grafton, ” answered he, once more lifting up my gown. Sitting down by me, and spreading it over him, at the same time taking hold of my hand..
You
I 239 }
. You cannot think, my Cecilia,, how I felt af this alteration in his behaviour. A Sudden flood of joy rushed over me; I could hardly support myself; my face and neck glowed like fire; my limbs trembled,, and had I been Standing I mufl: : have certainly fallen; agitated as I was I could hardly keep my seat. — Perceiving my confusion,. though I believe he did not imagine that he Should see me somuch aflfeaed,, he put his other hand to my heart, and cried, in a kind of fright" " G — d! how you tremble; what’s the matter my dearesl life, ” added he,, catching me ia. his arms.
I heard no more. — Convinced that Kwas be^ luved by him, I was quite overcomer— — h
recovered my senses, I found mv head on his bosom; his face was elofe to mine; :, that face which 1 had folong admired; and he. was calling me a thousand times his dear,, dear Bab, his life, his love, and beggings me to tell him what had occasioned my disorder. — I could not speak. to him at firsl; but as Soon as I became fensible of rhy situation, L Strove to: disengage myself. from him. He still; however, held me fart, and prested my hands alternately to his lips, begging me to pardon the abrupt discovery of a pastion which he had felt from his firfti acquaintance with me; but that unhappily Situated as he was,, he had not dared to venture to indulge it; as he,, at the same time, perceived conftantia’s preposteflion for him, which, had it not been gratified, musl have rendered her totally wretched.
Here
/
[ 240 ]
Here he made a pretty apology for having beerr obliged to appear sovain; but confested that he could not see her miserable after She was entrusted entirely to his care, without endeavouring to re -- lieve her. — “It cosi me indeed very dear — continued he — 'to give up the flattering hopes I had formed of gaining yowr heart, miss Grafton. — I actually wished with the greatesl earnestnefs to prevail on her toi^iaccept of Lord hiilwood’s overtures, and cannot describe the reluctance with which I went through the ceremony, which would deprive me for ever of the pleaiure of feeing as usual, as I could not See you w ithout loving you dill more ardently for your friendship for poor constantia— — when She was dead, though I was extremely Shocked at her untimely fate, I thought myself at liberty to devote the remainder of my happy hours to my adored miss Grafton. — I implored your friendship, madam; and you was So kind as not to refuse my request. — I looked upon myself as blested by your Sweet condeseension. — Delicacy, at first, forbade me to be too prefuining j but from the winning freedom of your behaviour to me, I hoped — though I dreaded to speak, lest I Should, finding myself mistaken, be rendered completely wretched., — Even this morning I flattered myself that you Still looked on me with favourable eyes. What has occasioned soconsiderable a change — a change So Severely felt by me — you — you can inform me. V hen 1 Saw you without life, without motion, I own that not alt my dread of your displeasure could any longer confine my pastion in my breast andl now positively declare, that the happiness

[ 24j ]
pines or misery of my future life depencfe entirely ^ upon you, madam.
Here he ceased to speak; but had you Seen him while he was speaking!! — tenderness which beamed from his charming eyes, his becoming modesty,. his impassioned looks, his harmonious voice, and the numberlefsgraces which accompanied every Soft expression, would have made me idolise him, if I had never loved him before. — Yeti knew not what to Say to him. — I was mosl certainly delighted and transported. — I was only afraid of. discover * ing the delicious sensations which L felt upom; the animating occasion; I therefore Said nothing. — However,, during my Silence I considered,, to a man who had^the mod unexceptionable character, to a man to whom my father vvilhed earnestly to be allied, to the man who had sonobly behaved to the girl committed to his care, ^ and in so.hot nourable a manner to me, - a very rigid reserve was' altogether absurd and unnecestary. — In consequence of this way of thinking, I honestly replied, when he urged me to deliver him from a State of the moil painful Suspense.. he had always been dear to me, and that if he really imagined I could make him happy, E was ready to give him my hand,., with my father’s consent, which E freely permitted. him to solicit.
Was not this saying a great deal, .Cecilia? — Yet it was not half what I longed to say; nor was it half enough to satisfy him, though he very rapturously kisted my handy and thanked me. — »• After having prested me. to tell him if I was quite recovered from the disorder which had somuch alarmed him ^ and after having discovered a Strong
desire.
[ 24, 2 i
desire to know what had occasioned it, he by degrees drew every secret from my heart relating to him. — When he found from my communications, that 1 loved him long before his marriage with
conslantia — H -- -- -- n’s cried he — my lovely
creature, what uneasiness have 1 given you 1 but unintentionally f am sure— — 1 but known, my charming Bab, that you was as tenderly attached tome as conslantia was, not all the powers on earth could have brought me to marry the woman whom i did not love, when Jbe^ the transported jhe, whom I doted on. Sighed for me. — But tell me, my dear Bab, do you love me as well now as you did then.? — And has not my distembled coolness lestened your affection ?”
“What do you think — Said I. laughing. — Was my monsfrous jealousy this morning a prootof'my ' indifference ?”
My Sweet, lively creature, how you delight me” replied he, catching me in his arms. — I then defined him, being actually afraid to trufl myself any longer with a man soenchantingly engaging, to give me time to finish a letter to you. — I could hardly obtain that requesl. — He calls me under my window. Was ever a voice soharmonious? — I looked out to tell him I had just done. He says I have had time enough to write a volume, and that he can live no longer without me.
In Continuation.
I snatch a moment to inform you, my dear, that
you musl have no more letters of the usual length..
My
t m3 ]
My lord says we have both Suffered enough in our former Separation, to bear any unnecestary ones now. He will bring you to See me at elm park; but he ingsts upon being resent at all pur interviews, as he Shall be jealous, he says, even of a female friend. — How he has rallied me about my fancying that he was in love with miss Bourke! — .He declares that be only paid his court to her out of respect to me, because he thought I looked in too languid a humour to entertain her; adding, however, that he must think himself eternally obliged to her, as he might not have known what pasted in my heart this twelvemonth, if She had not made Such a disturbance about it. — “I dote on your being jealous — says he — and when you cease to be So, Shall grow apprehengve that you are weary of me.” — I tell him, laughing, that I am So well fa tisged with his tenderness, I Shall never be jealous again. — My father is charmed with him. — Lucy looks pleased to see her wild Bab So happy, and dashwood calls us the mad lovers.
LETTER LXXI
The Honourable Edward Dashwood to Sir
Francis Mostyn, Bart.
I Have just now received a letter from poor, unhappy Bellers, who expired a few hours after She wrote it, after having Grft degred that it might not be Sent to me before her decease— — hope it is a Gncere proof of her penitence. She acknowledges
t 244 ]
ledges all her faults in it, but conftstes that her unalterable affe6lion for me was the cause of her last rash action, and of her death. — What a cutting confession— — .She could not live deprived of my love, most ardently implores my fcrgivenefs, and earnestly recommends her, poor dear boy to my protection; assuring me Solemnly that he is mine; that Since She knew me She never had any connexion with other men, though frequently solicited, and that the certainty of my loving the child was the greatesl consolation to her in her dying moments. — She concludes thus pathetically .* ** May you, my for ever loved dash wood, be ever blested with your Lucy, who deserves all your tenderness, because She never swerved from the paths of virtue to obtain it. postested of a heart sotruly excellent, Shewill not, surely, ob jeo: to your Showing sometegard for a child, who is not the less innocent, because his parents were guilty. Adieu, for ever. — Give my dear boy a Lfs for his dying mother.”
You cannot imagine how this letter affected me. 1 could mot even recover myself soentirely, but that a .'deje6: ion appeared upon my countenance when T met my Lucy. — She kindly questioned me about my dejection, and I freely confested the truth. — The dear angel fondly kiffedme, and said She loved me the more for my sensibility; adding, that She would be a mother to my boy V nor could I make her easy till I fetched the little fellow, over whom 1 had been weeping tili I had quite made him melancholy. So that he Teally wanted her
kind
[ 245 ]
her kind notice to revive him. — She dcsired me to Set him by her, kilted him, called him her dear Ned, and gave him a pocketbook and pencil, with which he was So delighted, that he came to me to teach him to wr//r, though he is hardly able to read.
In Continuation,
What a trying Scene! — And yet it has produced the most perse£t felicity I can taste in this world.
After having dined with Ned, as I usually do, when my Lucy is not ill, I went to meet her by appointment in the honeysuckle bower, just at the entrance of the park from the garden. The weather was excessively hot; and I was almost Sorry that I had not desired her to remain in the house till the return of the evening had made the air more agreeable, especially when I Saw her toiling down on the walk which led to this pleasant Spot, which is always eligible. — I even ran out to meet her, though 1 went out of bounds by So doing. Taking her in my arms I brought her into the Shade, placed her upon the seat, and made her rest on my bosom— — looked as handsorae as an angel, the heat having given an uncommon glow to her complexion.; but as She was too tightly laced for a woman in her conditon, on purpose indeed to conceal it, I was alarmed, being apprehensivc of bad consequences, and insifted upon her unpinning her gown, and loosening her Slays. — She complied with my request, to oblige me; but She was
vol. II U so
s
[ ]
So tired with all this, that as Soon as it was done She fell asleep in my arms. Glad was I to see her So charmingly compused.
While I was gazing on her dear face, holding her enraptured, imagine my terror and Surprise to see Sir Robert coming down the walk, leaning upon his canei — I could neither fly nor hide, without waking my dearest girl; and I would rather have Suffered anything than have frightened; I hoped, indeed, that however angry he might be with ' me, he would, for his daughter’s sake, confider me. — Therefore, as loon as I Saw him enter the bovver with all the marks.of aslon’ishment and fury in his countenance, I lifted up my hands and eyes in a supplicating attitude, and begged him to Spare his child.
“Villain! — cried he, forgetting everything — have you again seduced her ?”
She instantly .Started at his angry voice. “O my father — Said Ihe, eagerly springing from my arms, in which I Strove to detain her, and falling upon her knees at his feet — Oh, Sir, forgive him — pardon my dashwood — receive him as your Son,; the kindest of husbands.”
'Her Sighs and tears fast Streaming, which pierced my soul with anguish unutterable. Stopped her.; while I, busy over her, urged her to rise, and begged her to be composed; but finding that She paid no regard to me, and hearing Sir Robert, who had glanced his eyes on her Shape, say, “I see, I See how it is. — Who would be cursed with
daughters?” I threw myself on my knees before
%
him.,
4
»
[ 247 ]
him, and vowed never to leave him till I had obtained his forgiveness for us both. — “Though when you hear all. Sir — continued I — you will find that your daughter is too much an angel to veant it.”
The eagerness with which I spoke, added to his favourite daughter’s distrefsful Situation, and particular condition, with which, notwithstanding what he Said, he was not displeafed, I believed, as he always wished for grandchildren, at last wrought upon him in her favour. He bad her get up, and take care of herself.
** Never will I rise said the amiable creature ■ — till my husband receives your pardon. Sir.”
** pshaw! — replied Sir Robert — the girl is an idiot. — Surely he has bewitched you Lucy, ” added' ' he, offering her his hand to raise her.
She respeftfully and affeckionaetly kisted it, but remained in the Same poslure.,
Frighted to death lesl her continuance upon her knees might be too painful for her. Untreated her in Such earnest terms to let me lift her from the ground, that Sir Robert cried, “Take her up, and let. me hear what you can both say for yourselves“
“no — replied he, apparently coming into humour, though lothat firsl to own the change our behaviour had made in him — I will talk with her here, ” sitting down by his daughter, who taking him by one hand, and calling me to sit on the other fide of her. Said, Now I am between my two dcaresl friends on earth. Let me, my dear Sir
U 2 — added[
[ ]
4
— added She, looking wishfully at her father — let me have the happiness of joining your hands.”
Sir Robert overcome, at length, by her winning voice, and her affe6ling manner, fusfered her to make us friends; though he swore roundly, that if ever he found reason to repent of his easiness, it should be worse for us both.
. It is quite unnecestary for me. Sir Robert, either to promise or Swear upon the occasion; a Single glance from my dear Lucy will at any time hinder my roving from her arms. — With whom, indeed, but with her, can I expect to find the exquisite felicity which I at present enjoy P’
The lovely creature Smiled, conscious of her power over me, and transported to See her father So complying. — We Soon afterwards went towards the house, and Sir Robert honoured me So far as to accept of my arm to aflisl him in getting home, not having been So far Since he had the lasl fit of the gout.
The happy Charbury and Bah, who are now equally fond of each other, and only wait till the expiraticn of the mourning for the compietion of their felicity, were agreeably Surprised, and ex prested the greatesl satisfaction to see us So unex pededly reunited— — delicate Lucy blushcd at the disorder of her dress, which She had not had leisure, which She had indeed totally Sorgot, to alter i while I, fearful only about her health, told her,, and I told the truth, that She never looked half fodovely. — In the evening, with Sir robert’s consent, I took. possestion of my old apartment; y and I, hope that my dearest girl has received no
hurt
[ 249 ]
hurt from her surprise— — had' the address the next day to prevail on Her father to make a visit to mine. — ‘‘ Mr. dashwood — said he, after break fasl — I have been rude, I am afraid, to lord Bud worth; I have been too much ruffled to attend to forms; but if you will go with me L will order the chariot.’’
You may be Sure I darted no objection to that motion. — Before we Set out, however, I kisted my Lucy,, and told her that it was all herlidixi^v
We were mod cordially received by my excels lent father.; and who Should I find with him but that Smiling little rogue Ned, whom he had Sent for. The boy dew to me before I was aware. — My lord Saw ray confusion, and made an apology to Sir Robert, by Saying, that he Should be his hoff and never trouble either me. or my wife..
** Aye, but I dare fweari lord — replied Sir
Robert — that She will trouble him; he is too like your Son to pass unnoticed by my daughter.”
“I hope we Shall have one dill more like him. Sir Robert — Said my lord — to call you grandfather.”
** And who will be my grand papa? — Said the saucy little fellow — Sir ?” looking up in my father’s face.
“Aye, boy, ” replied he, patting his head. -- Then turning to Sir Robert, “The child is innocent — continued he — and we mud make him, if we can, a better man than his father has been.”
“Faith — Said Sir Robert — he will be but too like him j the wenches will never let Such hand
forae
I
[ 250 ]
Some fellows alone; So I believe we milsl e’en take them with all their faults.”
While these two old gentlemen were fettling So important an affair, I was playing with Ned, who aflced me where that pretty lady was who gave him the book and penciu
“that’s my daughter. i’ll lay half my estate— — Sir Robert. — Well, you must take care of him among you; and if She brings me as fine a boy, .we may think ourselves very well Satisfied after all, my lord.”
The joy which my dearest creature felt on feeing us return with my father, whom Sir Robert too prefllngly invited to dine with him to be refused,
is not to be described. — Pray h n that thisywr
prize may be attended with no dangerous con Sequences. — When I think of the tenderness .of her constitution, and the delicacy of her frame, I am every hour alarmed. — To conclude — I am the happiest of men, because I am uqited to the. befl of wives,
'4
0
FINIS.
\
* ♦
NEW BOOKS.
STERNE’S Letters to his most intimate Friends, with a Fragment in the Manner of Rabelais, Price bound 3s. 3d.
gray’s Poems and Letters, 2 vols. 5s. 3d. Fine Paper 6s. 6d.
twifs’s Travels through Spain and Portugal, 2 vols. 5s. 5d.
Young James: or. The Sage and the atheisl, translated from the French of Voltaire, 2s. 2d. Emma; or. The Child of Sorrow, 2 vols, 5s. 3d. Price on Civil Liberty, 2s. 2d.
An Answer to Price on Liberty, 6d. h.
The Character and Conduct of the Female Sex, and the Advantages to be derived by young Men from the Society of Virtuous Women, by James Fordyce, D. D. price is. id.
Johnfoniana: or, a. Collection of Bon Mots, by Dr. johnson, and others, is. id.
brother’s Advice to his Sisters, is. id.
A Description of Killarney, with a Plan of the Lake neatly engraved, is. id.
Sir Eldred of the Bower, and the Bleeding Rock, two legendary Tales, by Mrfs Hannah More, 6d. h.
An Elefition Ball, by the Author of the New Bath Guide, 6d. h.
Variety, a Tale for married People, 6d, h.
Odes by Richard Cumberland, 6d. h.
The
. N E W BOOK S.
The State of the national Debt, the national Income, and the national Expenditure, by John Earl of Stair, 6d. h.
Principles of politeness, Part II 6d. h.
Cleonice, Princess of Bythinia, a Tragedy by Hoole, 6d.h.
Heroine of the Cave, a Tragedy, 5d. h.
The Runaway, a Comedy, 6d. h.
Dutchman, a musical Entertainment, 3d.
/
4
%
A
a '
S
* ^.
*
• ^

'K
\
f ^
> •
^ •
%
»
4
%
%
a
ai

•4
%
*
a
\ hh'a" C C .... C c ■-.;. -- t, C
'■, : V CC NV ‘ ■ •■ \. .1 - ■ V
ybc; ■■'s; / T ' C
i's. ''■'.. h' ’ ^ f .- ■ ^ ■-; -- ': -, ■-: V ■ L v’'; .‘. ■'i ■■.oci'v. ■
.. : ■ ■ ' ■ ■ 'V- -- ' / -■ ■ ■. i ■ ■; • " VI > iv' ' ■■■ ' - ' - - ■
■S s V
■ ■' ■ T. V' ' ■; ■ : ■ -■ -■ .- * ■. r • C.
■ / ■ -. .SON - : > Nvv*^v S.;; N L S.. ’ '
■ ■ ^. _ ■. ', ^ V ■ ■; :.; S ■; v: yc. N; .CC N vc •''
■'. ■' ■'-. ■ ' ■- * I VS''.'' ' .A', '.. ca'. -- DC ■ "; ■
- : ■; 'iaf \ - N.. — ‘ ■ ' V ■; 'Tv: s 'y
-' • S 'ten: S' a' ’ S ■ ■ ■ • ' h: - V A ‘ ' c" /'-" '• ‘ vasa acaa '.d ' ^
v y; ten a; j; AA _/■ ASA' ' : ■■ ^ S; \ass s^^
'■ ■ - ' V ■., - t' Fh: \- r ‘ V r
"i: y" A" V s rif' ' " ' ■ FVI.; ■ ' f', -', ‘ ■ ■; _ ', '
» ■ •. • d d -' ' ' ■- .■*•■ “V T -- -»■•', • - ■ • •".. -- y. y.' " ' iv- -- -- ' ■ '
• "•; >• • -'*. j' • ■ ■ •; ' ■ ' : aad.a>y.
^ -- .vs'. Ah' ' V -'. C ^ "■ 'SR 'A: S,, AS AT: : ■ - — f AA', ‘ /■ A'*' ■'’cayc' ^■
'■V 'ca 'h ' ‘'vvcc' ■^ ■ ••■; A - A A: : '.■ A ■ : y -
^ Ay a ^ C :. hy; y: -- .y.sy y:; Ay, ya -■ --, i.y; S;. h’y.. : ■ : ys y y
- "■■■''■. ■ ■ ‘ ' I ■ y, ' y ■ ■ yy.c y. A : y. ..t ‘. y - *
. -.... y: ^^... .y - A' a ta. 'TA; -; : : ■vy...r.; - ^a.v.aan .y... ... -
■ ' -■,.. CA A VAIS'S Sv. y, -- V ’y^ a^sy: y * y ....
yivyyyr ^yyl' ■riamli'riariririda' i A riaaai ^ y .i' v: y : y’
: a. .yaya a A" " ‘'ah'vtaa': d‘; a ■. A; >■'■' 'A a' 'ya': -
‘ : .^aif '• ' •. y *. ■ y .' ' V- -- ' -.. ij. A,,,
.-' - L r- --,. { • > '^ r=?r» ...2. 'r - ' ■ ' - ■ • sv '
•: .N' '. r - A. ■» y: : • - '• -
^, - A' ' A- -- A y s, yv y.. ' • CV: :
'■ AS ' y A ' ■ y '''' ‘ ' ' ' A *. A y ■ -'■ *' -. ■■ • y '' ■ A -. /.
: A; ^ysva'/.' - V _ ' y‘ ' A. ■ ya,, ■. h. Ss'a aaaa"\ ''aaa'ay' ^
■■■ n!, -- ' : ■ - -■ V s's^v: 'AT ■ ‘A '' ■ - A'
- .: y‘ A.A’ -- a^^aks^a ' - - cy' 'n ■ ‘as 'A -'' a - - ■ ■
'■ ■ i - y. i V • '. ■ ' C - ■'■' *. ‘ AM r -■' * y y y...
... '. AR: i..... S AY y......, AN; '.
■. .A' J •. -• A V ‘ J -.■ ya'
■ ’■ ■■’ ■' "’'"' -- Ay s'aaas/v ay ^ •■■ 'A' ■ ■'■■■■y /aa Aaa A aa..""
A'' i - "S '.-■ ■_. - ■ ■ ^ \ '. ' y 'y y yyss.'; .-"- y...ys.. y y ‘'‘y ya y
- •'■ Ai AA' ' “■'• .•■'■■■ A; ca: AAA As AA' A '' A A: A. 'a
y. -- 4 ■ vy, V -■ - v 'yy’y. y'‘t''sa'''s': - ^. ‘. ■'yy v/y
■ -: SAY yy 'cy: .Tsy.:.. V • ■ ..y.: .-.: ^ ■■y ytey s. y - • - : yy: yy:
V ' : N -- by': = -- ‘a s ‘vhya;, .y’i^yv: ''e vn.': ' - *y ■ ‘ - '' C r^d.'v.'y '. *tc; y yi '■. y' -- A,, '. -- ' • --
'. •c yt^.^y^srcv 'f'n"' -- y^y*t''. ■ y' •'... yy'yy' .' Ny ■■ *• - *••...
hr : yy: y'*s'l".a>'vy A y. ■ cn h., y tynsa cac’* S- --. yy C y.. : " '
'S' a'^'^yc': SA AAAA A'"'.. SA; ‘saacaa "'hyhv A .y^iaca Ay A : y,
, .• ■' -- .i s'. yy'.. y" ■. -■ y. v.'. 'r A Sy'''' "', - - •. •'..'’S*A''" ■ Ld'h'' ■ •^, AT
•■-■ ■ SAA '* A>vy; aic y, '■ AA' A.; ^"' ya' y '■ y: : y — ^ y
t, ' " ' ^ ■(■ V t ' -■ _■ - ■ • ■' ' 'h ' — - - ', ■'
■■ ' y.s.y ■■' ■ ■* ■.'•■■. v ys' s< ■'■ ■" ■' y'y ' y's s' 'an : o vy'' ■
.' * • ■' V * '' * ^ '' '■ • ^ T: •• •. i' '.y y., r
^ ": : N; NA: ''^cya; ' A A ■ ^ ■a'"^sa v'as: aaa'y
: y.. - ■ ..■ ■. y y: "^-: y: : y^^': yyy?yv y --
■': * S.. ■■ ■ ' C.. -- .• V. ■ y ."vs. yvc
\ ^ T ■■-■' • y y ■ .'. » ■. ■, '. y yy y
■ - -. - ' 'SA S -- ^yi’^y" ■ V
\ • ■ N • y’’ ■ •' ■ j C y h • ■ c'c*y.'■••. ■. .* ^. • y yy'
S:. S ■ : y ■■ ■ c ys;
_.. ■ ■ ■ -, .-: y..vnv; : y;,;; : CV -- yyyv: : i. V..dy‘ /■ y' ' ys'; y'
• ' ■ -., •■'-• y -- - -•* y -
■■V v' - ••-•••. - ■ •: y: yy v, -; y^ .s^. -- .yyv --. - — y .y y' y. ' D a ant:
• y ' ^ •' c. ^ ry v..,, •-.■-• • ■:. '..i '
- a y'y,; cs ‘c ao; -: ' - ■. y ' sayisa'.a a^"'aa^ ya "‘ - ya As; A'y.' 'a; TA'AA' a
- ‘ y: :. -. ■■-; '- ‘y^: y: V ysy yn; rs, yc yy.s^>y ^ : a yn CA Dl t: :
■- •'.•*.■•. .C - • - r J.' .' ..., '. ' '-> • .- ••■-'-• y
•, ■.; ^ * y*i. AC... 'y's.; ay
■ ' A : aaa ansss y'^a'ad. A ^ ^ * .A VI S^S * ' ‘'t^'.ysa si;. A. a^ai/s^ay aa A ^h a'; AA
■ a7' A ' \ '. A'' * asa ■- Aaa,, :
'■ ' y y ■ "y. y ..-'^,., ’i /.'., L ', y ■.?. -. y yy^y y;......, S;
■; "' .y. ■■ ■'■ y a^ fy .A' \ - aaf^ r A. yy. y: -: yy \' i y yy .y ■-
■ ^ ^,. ■ ' ■ - V - - ' ■ ■ - * A A ' ' ' s * - • ■. *' * ' ^
bi y*ia. ■ -. y. y Av y V ''a’aba, V y. --. y ‘ ' ■ ■'. ■■. ■v'**.’
a^yy'y•*• n -- ..Dr - • ■ A ^v y.d.y y. ■ -- A.' .' > - y y. - ■ 'r.d".a -- : N --
^y.d's ss: A‘" y., - - ■; _ - y. V :; N y\.*y ' '.D > sai aa ay a -- y s S sas : y y^.y. -- s - '
ls S y y, y : : yyy A‘;.,; .yyy : y s., S ' \ T '
- • 'yr ■ ' 7.. - ^' •■ ' • J ■ _., ••,. y ■ ri *■ • -. ' ’v' rha' *■ ". A ■ ‘• •d ••'’■-■■ ■•■ ■ -■• V'
'■ ■ ..." * y ^ '. ■■ ~■ • i' ' —
-.•■ *. - / -- • 'b ■' yy 'sy iy j'.'* s. ' y.. ...
'•■.. •.. ■- A - : ■ rir.: : ■ ■ -. •■ - ■ '_-■.■■■■., •■; .■ -. .•
., y yyy. ...^ i = y. ■ - y y>yy -- yy. y\. y -- y.. -- y ^ ^ y ■■..•• ■ y^; i; y .y
■'-■■• " - v"' 'v Tc'.' -- ■. ' tekct ': cv ■'
'' ' * ^' \ '" ' ' ■ '
-’ d. • NR. •: •■"_•• * “*•'• • :
-• b " ■ ■■; ■ ■ b.. ■ • ■ ^
. ■ ■ T; b'.b: -■_. no;; : ’-'-,; st.bb; :;;,. n,,. ' ■ -. - ■■■'
*. - - - ■'■.... ' T; -, -: bbb^. - ^
i yv --. : >; -: - ' ^ ^ •.
',; b... ... - ^ - ■■ -- b, te S. ■'■c' n'c j. - V ’ ^;
■ - ' ' '. '•'■•» -■ -'. f, ..., ■ ..> -■
■- s ^. >. .-.. -. L /. -. \
^; ' L ' V - '.,; ■ ■ -
'■ b". '■-. - i ■ \
■.."'• 1 ♦ ^ ' -■ •' .f ■ ' '",..,
AT ^'vi'is''^y.. ■ / ■: '■'-■. -
.b.. A. -- ■ ^ '.■
'•, _ ■ ^ ■ ■'- r. -■>. \ '■•*'* '
■. bbb'. _.' ' •. ^ ■'. A.d. .db ■, .-.■■.■■
• '* •-' 'C * - ■ : ■ .-,. :. - ■ " : ■’■. .'.
• - ■ -. ' .S ■ : ■■ '■.- ■ • •• - .■ - ■■- • • • ^ ' :
■'■ <'•: ^ '•'.'./••■ ■'■•• ■■' - ‘ - •'• •- '
^ ■ a avr'vfd ■' "v ■- -' * ' -- '; •.. 'V.' / '‘•*-
• ' ■ • ■ ■ - N ■„ • ^c. n - V AN ■•'/- ■■-
'•''■ ■ '■ ' ^.
■• ■•- •■■■'•^ -•■' '.■■■■'■■ ■■-•■_ -- V --. '
"' ■ *'' ' ' b ^'b 'bs ■ ■.. : ' “- - ' bb^
. ' < - • V - ■ n T:
s - ■ ■’, - ft '■; ■ - ■, -, ■■'■ - •. C;.
;. : ■. id - •• .: ■ vv N..... - - .- .-
■ - ■ ■ / " :
yv v^ l. v: ^.1|g; IV ■■ : ■ •■ ■ _. ' ■:,., ~, ■ > '.; ': L
^ ■■ » ''
* ^ ' '* " r' ' ■ -. ■ • ^
*•■'•■■-. r. • .5"
.D... -. .■ ■■. s -- ^ ■ • : ■■■, -■■ -- ■ ■■ '. ■ ■^..
■ N;; ■ ■ ■ ■-:; ■... ■ y y ■.- y. ■.■; _, ', ■ ■.
b' bvb T ^'^b'b ^.. be b b"b, ’' 'v' ■' ■
.■ ' = .- ‘ '• - ’ ■ ■ :
♦ ' ' : - -'■■ ■ ' '.S '- -■. : „.
■T, i'v'c':; : ' ^ ^ C ", in: : • y ■
.y.i' aatfr
V- -- b' '■ ■. '- ■■■^‘■■- ■ ■ V ■ .D -■
b' ' N ^ .D -■ - - ^ y: .^_ i ■■
b. -. ■ ■ ■. ^ i
■■.‘ •'■ ■b ■>. V "■ *■ '■■,. :
. 'V. rif,
*• - ••'••• O •, '... ‘ •- " ' ■ ' "av t. '' y- -- ^,
■' ' ''’sbe .b ■ b •. b n; ’c b j/y b
y'. '. - ■■ ■■ V. ■ ■■
'■ •- i ■ - ■/ ■ y' ' ',
: * ' ’ bi'v'b^ -■ T -' ■ ^ ■ .-
"■ - yby' ^yc"nt " b b' ' y; y.bbb;; b V... .- ■ •'
■'.: : bb ’._bs"bbbbt'b>y;; .bt.., y, b
* - ■. ' f ‘ ' •' ' • •’..
'1 ■" ■• .1 ’ ■ y ‘. : : .y. y '. y' ^.. r a, ' -. Vy -■■•, -.. S -■, :
_: •- ...» -.,..; V ".. - y, ‘ V - '
• -■■-' -- -- ^ -, y - V S s ■■ ' ■ - -.
■' y ' /' t'
.•'■.•/'; ■ -■ '. ' - />• • ' ' ' ■-•'.■ : •
^ -■ ■ by" " --; ' '■/ ' : - _ y..;. '-, ■ ' ■ b b.. ./ ■ ■. " \
^ -' b ■. • / - ■ b '■■ b. ^. ■ b - -. r cb '. b
\
N
^ \
\
0
«
« *
>
0
, <
V
\
• >
« *
I \
• s
%

\
»
«
i
. I
\
t
t
\
/
»
/
A
t
\
I
I
t \
1
*1
, V
/
• I
\
I
<
}
«
> ’ >
4-
; «
%
ft
I
jr ti \ r ’ /' > I ■ ‘ ■ i t / T
»' '' ‘"1! -•'*< ^ 1 A'"'' ‘S' C 1 fti*'/ 1 i’ 1 j. t
■« ■•* i f i? a i" f ' ' ■■‘'- ••‘' ' ■' ■• ’ ri I
5, 1 '
''Il ■ ’ -
^
^ i'
'" / .■ d ■ f ■ '
:, f t i ^
Ac
S <• f
»• * ie.
'• • ■ •''■, N
'' ' »
i
K ^ '
'' »
* ' * * t
/
• I » ',
i
/
«
i ■
«
/ •
I
r
. i
r
I i
»
!
«
V ' ■
I
\
i
4
>
♦
#.. f
% *
I
4
/
4
4 '
I
;
p
\ I
t
\
/
1.
'/ ' ^
'♦
\
• I
»
\
. $
V
• ■ / •
C' ' ' ■ r

0
'■
- *: T ■; ^ ■
S - N n 0 ^
V — ^ _’S*^ Ja ..y ^ •.
t
1
"7 R
X Xfc
y
^ — > ^ y TRI
F, J : D .Da: N Jj
I
, I
-, C ~: : .-, i;; 7: ~ y4g^rgsgs^rr ■
i. *a* rf '
: .■■■■ ■ ^>’v
. ' J; ‘ '
■ :
> :.
1
T y
i * • 'i‘>. ‘
'•. ' • : ■ * C i »
*. * -4
'i i * • ' V •
~* ' — > ',. : —
. Stets ^
'(‘ \ f ' ri -
■.? ■
^ C.) C v -
.' r
• ha., y
y;. 0. ■ i' *' ' '
■ C d. Ai L ^■
-. ■ -;
- ___’ b
!»• '
^.!; r'
■ •! ■ b.
I
’ ’ ^
‘7 » * ^
.'. r -. r
■ ^; - cv ' .« • %
► •
■'■ * ^ -, ■ ’
C / ^. /-'
* \ “
* • pt * r.
• >
* ’ ' r “^
L A'rip
t. : d b
, ■ \ - ■ N, ".
■ •.’ ■ ^
■ < / '
■ ^ S
be ' • -■ * i
• ' i •!!?';;
^- • T ^ i
ft '«'
— • ■ » — '
- ^ b ' ■.
■ ■- •* ♦.
'if.
'Cb. V
- N ^ VI
1, r
i ■ C C
i
; d
y
^ ' \. '
J '
'i
• “t ■%
S i >■: “
■■ I.
*. ‘ '■ • ■
’ 1.
