
THE
SHEPHERDESS
OF 1
ARANVILLE:
«
A ROMANCE.


I
f
«

'•-«
THE
SHEPHERDESS
OF
ARANVILLE :
%
A ROMANCE.
TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH OF
M. LIOMIN.

AND DEDICATED BY PERMISSION TO HER
ROYAL HIGHNESS the DUCHESS of YORK.
C'est le Pinceau de Florian
Ce font les Sentimens de Marmontel,
London:
PRINTED BY J. ADLARD, NO. 39, DUKE street,
WEST smithfield : AND SOLD BY OWEN, NO. 168, AND MASON, NO. 169, PICCADILLY; AND PARSONS, NO. 21, PATERNOSTER-ROW.
M, DCC, XCIV
TO HER ROYAL HIGHNESS
THE DUCHESS OF YORK.
Madam,
It would be doing injustice to the
taste and judgement of your Royal Highness, were I not to acknow ledge, that the honour you are pleased to confer on this little Work,
is more a Favour granted to the situation
of the Translator, than either bestowed on her merit, or that of the Performance; and this Favour, so little to be hoped for, is perhaps the only one that could have obliged her to give her Name to the Public.
It

DEDICATION.
DEDICATION.
It is recited of Your Royal high ness great Uncle, of astonishing memory, that one day, returning to the Castle of Brandenburgh, a child, of five years old, hung himself by his little hands to the neck of his Spur; and that his Majesty, making a sign to the officers around him not to disturb him; at the same time checking his horse, which seemed shy of so unusual an encumbrance, conducted the infant in silence and Safety up to the gates of the palace. Thus inoffensive, impotent, and ill dressed, the Shepherdess of Aranville, probably originally the offspring of
necessity, and certainly now the reproduction of a position no ways for tunate,
dedication.
tunate, hangs herself at the feet of Your Royal Highness, in hopes of passing, in like manner, safely through the many dangers of neglector criticism, in consideration of the Illustrious Name which protects
her.
The Preservation, Honour, and hap pinefs of this Name, shall ever form
the most ardent Wish of,
Your Royal Highness's
Most obedient, and devoted
Humble Servant,
S. BECKWITH. ]

T HE
SHEPHERDESS
OF
ARANVILLE.
AT the foot of the mountains which southeast parate France from Arragon, there lies a de licious valley. The Vale of Aure is the name it bears: and this sweet name is less Soft than the hearts of its inhabitants. It forms a part of the country of Comminge; an illustrious name, but which presents to the imagination the idea of misfortune.
At the right of this Small district, at no great distance, lie the waters of Bagnieres those of Lucena, and the sources of the ga ronne. Here her waters are still pure, and those who inhabit her banks are loyal and
P
true,
( 2)
true. To the west are the baths of Bareges, and the sources of the Adour: but these baths, so much Sought after, are of no use to the inhabitants of these places. Health, peace, and gaiety have been transmitted to them from their ancestors; and these they hope their children shall possess when them selves exist no longer. The frightful moun tains, called Pic de Midi, separate them from the rest of France, the Pyrenees from the haughty Spaniard. Two passes alone con duct to the last of those countries, the one bears likewise the name of Aure, the other, less agreeable, but shorter, is the pass of Venasques.
The vale of Aure is watered by two Small rivers; the one is called the Neste. Her limpid water discovers the glittering sand which forms her bed. Rapid in her course, she offers the image of time as it flies, while more than one shepherdess, on the eve of a sine day, has mourned, on her banks,
the
( 3)
the Spring of her age, which had fled, Swift as the wave of the rapid running Neste.
The river of Rioumayour, though more considerable, is slower in its course; and running at the Soot of the mountains, osportal, hid under the willows and alders, which Sorm an arch over its pallage, while more constant than the Neste, presents its waters
less to the sight.
It is on the banks of the Rioumayour, that the hamlet of Aranville is situated. xhese peacesul abodes, inhabited by innocence, while they resusc the luxury of towns, offer all the happiness of a country lise. Every one is Surrounded by antique pines, which afford him shade. A rushing fountain, the present of a mountain to the South, ornaments the ground round their cabins, re
Sreshes the inhabitants, and fertilises their
/ ^
meads.
The people are rich, as they have no wants which they cannot easily Satisfy. Their rasto
B 2 is
( 4)
is simple, and their desires are those of na ture. Labour, which elsewhere is the afflic tion of men, forms here their greatest plea sure. At night the timid shepherdess longs for the dawn, to conduct her sheep to the banks of the Rioumayour; without a doubt the voice of her favourite shepherd had already been long heard in the vale. At their side the vigorous reaper collects the spoils, which the earth, in this place, never refuses to the happy cultivator. Joy presides over these works, which hope conducts; the most pleasing of which last is to have a hat crowned with flowers, on the following day, by the hand of a favourite shepherdess; for here the warmth of love penetrates all hearts.
One of these alone was ignorant of this law, which nature imposes on the feeling mind.
Louisa was her name; her age sixteen. Why can I not, with the same exactness, describe her person! Many shepherdesses
are
( 5 y
are called louisa, and many are only sixteen; but none have the Sorm, nor the heart
of louisa Montane.
The shepherds of Caffeau, of Estenos, and of St. Pre, ’all inhabitants of the valley of Aure, had come to Aranville; they had Seen louisa; the eyes osall were silled with her image, and none had dared to tell lier that she was beautisul. Her name was repeated in all their Songs; but as Soon as she appeared, that name was heard no longer, savesrom the Surroundino: echoes, from which it still resounded. No one dared to deck' ^ his pasiion to her, as no one deemed himseli wmrthy of her. He who desired to flatter the object of his wishes, told her that she rescmblcst louisa; and she wifned it might be true.
Far from being vain osher beauty, louisa
was ignorant that she possessed it. Her sa there was old and infirm; less rich than his neighbours, because his arms were
B 3 less
( 6 j
Icfs robust. louisa Spared him the hardest
work; and when under the shade cfanold
linden, they partook of the Srugal repast
which her delicate hands had prepared,
Montane blessed God for having preserved his daughter to him.
Aranvilie was not the place of his birth. He came iiom the canton osjberne, and this name still warmed his heart, frozen by age. lor three hundred years, uninterruptedly, his ancestors nad laboured their native Soil, o. icrved in the w’ars, without ever havin<t^
N O
courted the vile Savours of the great. This vas the nobility of which he was proud; and if he repeated to nis daughter that Henry the Great had osten visited their cottage of Ara
it.is, in the Valley of Bareton, his heart foft cued, while he retraced the virtues and popularity of this good King. Some vexatious proceedings on the part of the chief men of his canton, together with the bitter remembrance of having been, deprived of a fon,
had
( 7)
had made him quit Bern, and the banks of the Vert, for Aranvilie, and the shores of
the Rioumayour.
He had learned to pardon men for being unjust; and louisa consoled him for the loss of his fon. He felt a pleasure in instructing her in all that his age, and his experience had taught him. Sometimes he
related to her the wars which formerly defo
»
France; the history of Henry the Great, his virtues, his tragical end, anst the
f
persecutions which afterwards afflicted those who hast persevered in the Protestant faith. At other times, he pictured to her the virtues and vices of the great; their morals, the • luxury and customs of the capital, whither his curiosity hast formerly led him. At all times he taught her to cherith her King, her country, and her duty. It was thus that his tensternefs centred in this beloved child,
4
rendered him happy, and Louisa was made So by the happiness of her father.
Ba. Each
( 8 j
Each hamlet of the valley of Aure, has its particular festival, which is renewed every time the honeyfucklebegins to flied anew its Sweet perfume. That of Aranvilie is the
p
most considerable; Louisa dwelled there: Could it be oiherwife?
This day arrived : Soon as the morn be
%
to appear, all the pastors of the vale V ere collected there. Joy was painted on their faces; their hats, ornamented with flowers and ribbons, announced the sideliry and the gifts of their shepherdesses. With these were united Several of the young micit ' of St. Licer, from Rieux, and traimcfan ges. Some had even quitted tyre walls of Venafo lies, and the kingdom of Arratmn, for
X ' O 4 } ^
the turf of Aranvilie.
The youth of the valley of Aure received tlicfe strangers with that sweet, easy hospitality,
. which is only to be met with in the country. They instructed them in their
Sports, informed them of their pleasures,
their
(' 9)
their happiness, and even the name and charms of their mistresses. But in the midst
'I
of the eulogium given to beauty, these strangers continually heard them pronounce the name of Louisa.
She appeared at last, and was distinguiflied in the midst of her companions, like a lily among the other flowers of the meadows. They all went together, according to custom,
to return thanks;, to Providence, for having once more renewed the spring with its sweet.warmth. It. has been Said, .that Several shepherdesses forgot the gifts of nature, and only returned thanks that they were yet beloved by their shepherds.
These last followed them to the temple, taking care to place the strangers to advantage.. The elegance of whose clothing, the good mein of some of whom, and, above all, the singularity of feeing among them the inhabitants of towns, drew fora moment on; them, the looks of all the shepherdesses,
b5 Don’
( 20)
Don Juan de Pedrera, a young man fromi Venafques, deserved above all to be distinguished. Although he was a Spaniard, he
had ail that amiable softness of manners which at that time belonged to the French. Eyes full of sense and spirit, a fine countenance, with an easy behaviour, announced the elevation of his birth i his soul was still more noble.
He had been particularly struck with the praises they gave to Louisa;; Saw her, and the soul of this Spaniard was wmunded profoundly. She was only an humble shepherdess: :, knew it; but rich, free, above prejudice, he would have esteemed himself happy to have been able to please, and to deserve her.
The Sweet dreams of hope already occupied him, when the Snort ceremony, which drew the shepherds together, ended, in order to be followed by gaier occupations. The custom was, that each one conducted his
shepherdess
( II)
fliepheictcss to the plain, where the rivalry of Songs, the contending games, and rural dances, to the Sound of the tabor, were to
enliven the remainder of the day.
Every one was anxious to show respect to the strangers; it was Pedrera, whom they invited to choose the first shepherdess. He wdll choose louisa, ” Said every one to himself; he alone is worthy of her; there is only louisa who is worthy of this handsome. stranger; ’* and they ail thought right.
He advanced with that grace which cha -- racterifes his nation, and presented his hand,. trembling, to Louisa. Louisa accepted it without.blushing; for it is only those who i
fear, or who desire, that are agitated. -- -- --
A Serene countenance is the mirror which. presents to us the. portrait of a heart at ease. Their turn was of no long duration, and the * discreet Spaniard had hardly time to express; the pleafure.he enjoyed, in having followed;
B 6., the.j
t
(12 )■
the inclination he had felt, to assist at the festival of Aranvilie.
They were succeeded by bellesert, a young man from St. Licer, richly clothed. He alone, of all the assistants thought that he shone by this appearance of luxury. Among this simple people it had, however, only
Served to procure him the second place. He
conducted with regret a shepherdess of Traimefanges. Louisa had also struck him.. He believed nothing was impossible for his gold to obtain j and he was devoured with jealousy at feeing her with Pedrera.
The Sports began j Pedrera was in the sight of Louisa;; was a Spaniard, and in love: it may easily be imagined whether he Spared his efforts to please, and to Succeed. He distinguished himself everywhere: In town he was an amiable gentleman, in the country the most perfect of all the shepherds. " What a pity, ” Said an old maui
leaning
( 13 1
leaning against a poplar, which had beem hollowed out by some centuries What 2b pity he' was not born among us!” As to bellesert, he wanted to conceal his awk wardness under cover of his pride; he thought himself very great, and he was only very ridiculous.
Whilst louisa was reposing herself on the grass,. he approached her with familiarity, and wanted to lead on a conversation, which she Supported with difficulty. Her heart was not prepossessed in favour of any one; northeast -- verthelefs, for the first time, some one became
odious to her; and this painful Sentiment had arisen only with regard to bellesert. It is thus that blind prepossessions conductus, even when the motives which give birth to them remain as unknown to us as the influence they have over our fate.; bellesert; perceived he was not accepted; he. shivered^with pride and rage: too ardent to abandon his projects, he saw himself
obliged.
• ■ r ^
C 14 }
obliged to dissemble, promising to himself
•
either success or revenge.
The festival was to terminate by the distribution of the prizes, which the shepherdesses bestowed on those who had distinguished themselves the most in the different crames they had played at. these consisted in ribbons, Sometimes a Scarfi which the shepherds wore a long while to attest their victory.
All voices decreed the first prize to Pedrera. louisa, whom he had led forwaist, was to give it to him, in the name of her companions. The modest Spaniard put one knee to the ground; “Receive, ” Said the shepherdess to him, " this slight prize of our feast; every Succeeding year will remind us that the Citizen of venasques honoured our country and our Sports.” — I receive your gifts with transports, ” cried Pedrera, with vivacity; happy if you receive my
heart in exchange. Amiable shepherdesses,,
it.
{ u)
it will ever remain among you; I always loved nature, how should I not admire the
finest of all her works!”
The Spectators perceived that this answer,
addressed in appearance to all the shepherdesses who crowned him, was meant for Louisa alone. Louisa only admired the spaniard’s politeness, and saw nothing more her manners were So simple, and her heart So innocent, that she did not even See her triumph. Coquettes, alone, triumph, where
they are not conquered.
This day had decided the heart of Pedrera. Given up to the object of his tenderness, he Saw, he heard nothing but his shepherdess, and desired to live only to adore her. Timid and delicate in his passion, he hardly durst explain himself. louisa was insensible.. she who is So, Sar from returning the passion of her lover, does not even understand the language of his eyes.
Pedrera had a. Sarm at traimesanges. —
Traime
( i6)
Traimefanges is only three leagues from ve nasquct, andtwo from Aranvilie. This pof fefflon, which had beendong neglected, and which pedvera visited for the first time, became very soon the object of his care, and the end of all his rides. From thence he came Sometimes to Aranvilie; and when he had Seen louisa, he returned happy to: venasques:
One day, at last, he dared to Sound the heart of louisa. louisa esteemed him, but this cold Sentiment was all that he had to hope for. He Saw, and was afflicted at it; his visits became less Srequent, not that his
love had diminished, but because hefeared to offend'hy his importunity.
While the festival at Aranvilie, and the occupations of its inhabitants, had banished i dulness from the valley of Aure, discord,
1 born on the impetuous wings of Aquilon,
1
blew her pestiferous rage into the hearts of
t
all the French. thus.on the evening, of a
fine:
'>
r
( 17)
fine day, the heavens are over cast with thick clouds, the Sun is concealed in the shade, the thunder rolls, and, in a moment the earth has no other light than the pale lightning, more terrible than the night itself.

Vvdiy must I interrupt the recital of hap pine.st, to join to it thoife of destruction and carnatre? Can the hand which retraces the pleasures and Songs of Snepherds, paint the transports of ambition, and the Sury of revenge 1
if Sensibility Sometimes gives birth to our tears, hodc sudoorts us; time or disiance
''1 i. i. *
dry up their Source j and we find our happi ness, in feebng our iuisfortuncs anew.
What a distcrent picture! I now have to retrace events already known; I have to describe men intoxicated with Scenes of blood, and thence led to the commission of new crimes. these evils were extended even to the prescnce of louisa. She alone,
and
( i8 3
and with difficulty, found means to repel their atrocious fury. Why can we not efface the remembrance of them from Suture northeast
*
ncrations?
For a long while the French monarchy had fostered in Secret the destructive Seeds which were to conduct it to the brink of the precipice. Under the deceitful exterior of riches and power, fne was interiorly exhausted by this very magnificence and luxury, the perpetual objecfs of the desires and envy of her neighbours. Thus an oak, extending the inajescic shade of its immense
X
branches over the Surrounding plain, while i: lavishes its fiip on the Superb foliage, the trunk dries up j the tree totters, falls, and crusnes the astonished traveller j and the greater it is, the more the fall is terrible.
I he ambition of the great, the corruption of the rich, devouring luxury, productive of many wants, which are hardly Satisfied till new ones arise;; thirst for gold, which
gold
( 19)
gold still augments, and whose possession gives the unhappy power of committing crimes with impunity; these evils had Separated the man from the citizen, and the citizen from his country. The cultivator bent towards the ground, watered the earth with thefweat of his brow; and, if he dared
X
to lift his eyes to Heaven, it was to offer them heavy with tears.
The Magistrate purchased the right of being just:, and Sold injustice. Gold was exacted from him who had it not: The powerful added it to his wealth; and in the midst of these heaps of gold, pressed from
I
the people, the state had not wherewithal to
Supply its exigencies.
One of those gifts which nature grants so rarely to empires, a minister of integrity, by turns driven out because he was just and true, and recalled because he was
necessary, dared to found the abyss, and indicate
'(■ 20 )'
dicate it to his Sovereign. His King was weak, but he w’as good, and he wished to
hear the voice of his people. His Subjects were assembled from the most distant parts of all the provinces; and this voice. So importunate to Sovereigns, would have recalled the public happiness, is those who bore It had listened to that of moderation.
The weakness of the King made his virtues be called in question, while the pride of power intoxicated those whom long Suffering had irritated; distrust got possession of the minds of the people, and its conductors blinded them, to raise their own authority on what was become odious to them. A Superb, but defective palace was destroyed, and the French wander still at
jandom, in the labyriiith of ruined materials.
Same, that terrible voice, which magnifies and disfigures events, the farther she
is
( 21 } '
is heard from the place of their birth, had
*
already traversed sixteen provinces, to bring this news to the valley of Aure.
Were she to be credited, happiness was to be born anew, because one of the instruments of tyranny had been demolished. In order to render this happy liberty permanent, every Frenchman, armed with death difpenfing tubes of iron, was to watch the door of his cottage. Blood hadfflowed, but it was the impure blood of the Ministers of tyranny. It was still destined to flow; every great man merited death, for his title was a crime. Flight was forbid, and orders were given for murder.
St. Licer, Rieux, Pamiers, tarascon, were already filled with these reports. The young men, full of sire, had taken arms; Some animated with the desire of defending liberty, others with' the pride of com mand, and the rage to destroy.
I
bellesert was of the number of these lash
For
( 22)
For a long w hile he had in vain endeavoured to employ his gold to purchase those titles of honour which are attached to the descendants of those who have deserved well from their country. More happy, he now commanded, in the neighbourhood of his
r
town, the destruostion of those, whose station he had not been able to deserve.
What he was most ambitious of was, to appear in the eyes of i.ouisa, with all the Splendour of his authority, not doubting that she would easily be overcome by it.
This project appeared easy to him. The limits that his vanity had Set to his desire of command, contained the valley of Aure within its boundary. This people were yet mild, peaceful, and without arms; it was requisite to render them fierce, and to put the Sword into their hands.
It was in order to execute this double project, that bellesert, after having assembled the choice men of his battalion, quitted
I St.
( 23)
St. Licer, clears the mountains which Surround fronsac, penetrates into the valley, and having crossed the Rioumayour, bore the alarrn into Estenos, Mauleon and Casseaii, ordering the inhabitants, as Soon as day appeared to assemble in the plain of Aranvilie.
In the meanwhile Aranvilie enjoyed the peace of innocence; night had just covered it with her thick veil, and the sparkling stars announced another fine day to succeed the past one.
the.old Montane, and his daughter enjoyed the sweet steep of virtue. Pedrera alone was awake, and even directed his steps on the side where Aranvilie lay. con fufed notices of the troubles in the capital, and in the provinces, had awakened hisdis quiet for his dear louisa, and the place she inhabited. To dissipate these apprehensions; to see her, animated without doubt, with the hope of one day Softening her heart,
he approached the hut of old Montane,
guided
( H >
guided by love, and without being impeded by the night. — She offered him the Sweet facility of being able at pleasure to visit the places which had first given birth to his love. There lay the plain, where the hand of his shepherdess had crowned him; here he beheld the shepherds keep silence, and
the birds cease their warbling, to listen to the enchanting Sound of her voice. He laid himself down at the foot of the pine tree, where Louisa had reposed. These delicious recollections, so dear to the lover, re animated his heart with a new fire. He approaches the window of Louisa, there, hid in the shade, which was reflected by the moonlight from an old linden, he dared,
with a trembling voice, to utter a Spanish
*
ballad, depictive of the flames which consumed him.
louisa, Softly awakened by these Sounds, 4 ecognized sthe citizen of Venafques; the
f
accents struck her ear, but they did not pe
4 netrate
( 25)
penetrate to her heart; she sighed, nevertheless, at being the occasion of pains which she could not relieve. louisa loved Pedrera as she would have loved a brother; every other Sentiment was unknown to heri but this is a weak consolation to a lover. these pain Sul reflections banished Sleep from the eyes of Louisa, while Pedrera, wandei -- ing round her habitation, waited till the rising day flaould present to his eager looks, the features of his mistress.
Aurora appeared at last; and old Montane, who had preceded it, gave to his daughter the kifs of peace, and the benediction of a father. « Come, ” said he, to her, let us go and admire nature: This pleasure, so pure, so true, is only known to us. The most precious homage which man can ender to his Creator, is a lively sense of his favours.” And conducting Louisa by the hand, he led her to the foot of the liii
C den,
;
'( 2 6)
den, which the fun began now just to gild with his rays.
Thou feest this brilliant star, which has just enlightened our plain; tomorrow he will re commence his career. Man is subject toother laws; the evening of his life does not offer to him the image of another
day. Thou feest my hairs whitened by age :
<
it is the show which announces the winter in covering our mountains. I have attained my winter; and the warmth of a new spring never succeeded for man, to the frosts with which old age.penetrates his veins. louisa, let not thy eyes be filled with vain tears, this is neither the example nor the lesson, which I have given thee. Ought we to be afflicted
to behold the yellow and withered leaves
%
of autumn fall, and become the sport of the winds, to give place for the verdant branches of the month of May? His the image of men, who succeed to each other.
I shall
( 27)
V
1 shall Soon have finished my course,
)
and I beheld its period without fear, and without regret. Thou hadil a brother; for
a moment fortunecardsed him; a rnomen^ was sufficient to tear him fio; n our hopes; and the name of thy father will very soon exist only in the remembrance of his daughter. Thyself, Louisa, very fogn left alone, without Support, like the jessamine of our mountains, which the wind twists round at pleasure, wilt thou be able, in the age of the passions, to resist their attraction? Let rather the heart of thy father direct thee, while he is yet able. Wouldst thou fear to open thine heart to him? Thou mayest
choose among the shepherds who inhabit these countries: many of them are worthy of thee, and my only wish is to see thee happy. But if an inhabitant of the towns were to Seduce thy innocence; if thy heart were
S
prepossessed in their favour, grief would Still
C 2 abridge
( 28)
abiioge this evening of my life. Pedrera loves thee; 1 doubt it no longer i his stay licre, ms visits his looks, his conversation, had created in nie some doubts; this night again his Songs have resounded in my eais, and have augmented my fears. — ■ hat I oread in him is, this appearance of virtue; mis sincerity w’hich he affects in his
discourse; tnis nobleness in his actions. He
loves thee; 1 have not been able to hinder myself even from loving him; and this af tcndancy which he has taken over me, makes me tremble for my Louisa. Think that he is lich, of an illustrious family; his desiies can then only be dcceitfuf and his difeourfes Snares laid for virtue.
Louisa embraced her father, while she af sured hint that her heart was at ease. Her lips had never yet been sullied by a falsehood;; believed her, and tranquillity rc animated his strength.
The
( 29 }
She fun had descended from the Summit of the mountains, and gilded the buttorn of the valley. Louisa was going to conduct
her flock to the banks of the Rioumayour, and the old Montane was tying up with reeds the trailing vines, when the battalion of St. Licer appeared in the plain.
Their number, the brilliancy of their arms, the three ribbons which decorated their coats, formed a new and strange sight in the valley. Montane and his daughter could not believe their eyes. The inhabitants of Aranvilie collect around them;
%
they mutually interrogate .each other, and no one can explain the mystery.
The column approaches, and very Soon they know the haughty bellesert, who commands it. Vigaron and Cabanac are at his side. Behind them stand the young men of St. Licer, of Bertrand, and from the neighbourhood, who strew their inexperience
c3. in
( 3°)
s
in bearing arms. Frightful sh’outs proceed from the centre of the column; the cries of a mad desire of blood and pillage. The heads of those who utter them are seen above the column. A fierce look, dishevelled hair, a liaggard countenance, a neck, arms, and legs bare, offer to view a black and burnt floin, with muscles of iron. The title of robbers is that with which they honour themselves.
The Snepherds of the neighbouring hamlets arrive bv other roads. reunited to those of Aranvillei they throng round Montane, for Montane was always their counsellor and their guide. Louisa, astonished and trembling with fear, surrounded on all sides, cannot attain to her cottage. Two of her companions, attracted by their curiosity, see her embarrassment; and Pedrera, brought back by this sight from the banks of the Neste, whither his amorous reverie
had
r 31 )'
had drawn him, Seconds these shepherdesfcs, — attains to louisa — places himself at her side, and encourages her.
.Duriiigthis period of time bellesert commands his troop to extend themselves, and from his horse, addresses the attentive shepherds.,
Frenchmen, ” said he to them, 1 come to announce to you your deliverance and happiness. You know, that for more than a century, the hydra of tyranny has been fattening himself with the blood of the people whom he Iwd devoured. een your persons were become a sport to the caprice of the great; and of the name of Franks which we bear, there only remained to us
the bitter reflection of having lost that liberty of which this word offers the idea to our minds. Our representatives assembled, wanted to. recall equality, to retrace to man his rights, and to restore them to him. Shall
C 4 I relate
( 32 }
Shall I relate it to you? At hearing this virtuous pioject, the menaces of thepowerful, who oppress you, bi'oke Forth. They had conceived a destructive project. Soldiers, goiis_osted near the walls of the capital, threatened it; languinary orders were going to destroy it, and even the name of your defenders would have been effaced in the toiients of their blood, which was destined to have been flied. The genius of France has watched over us; these dark plots have been discovered;; minds of all men are enlightened; the soldier is become a citizen, tne citizen is become a soldier. One day has been Sufficient to break chains which had cost ages to Sorge; the idol of power is fallen; dungeons have been opened, destroyed, and levelled with the ground; and this great day, ever memorable, shall render
the courage of the French for ever illustri
)
ous. The capital has given the example,
and
( u3)
and all the provinces have followed it tvith ardour, But that is not cnoup^h: this monster wishes to revive; the great lay plots, and the nobility only look upon
us as rebels. Tremble, men of France, tnat these nobies do not shed in us their blood which we have shed— — Frenchman ougnt to be fi'ce j he ouo"ht
O
to arm himself; these castles, these palaces, which our stupid ignorance admired, which our imbecility respected, these revered monuments of genius and of the arts, are the asylums of tyrants, which she ought to destroy; death is the just reward of their possessors. Behold this troop which follows me; the sire of ii ^ berty isctn their looks; their hands are already accustomed to war. Montasset, Mauvesin, Mestelabert, are nothing now but, a heap of ruins; sire has destroyed everything, and steel has avenged the
citizens. C 5 And
( 34 }
And you, tranquil as in the midst of peace, you have done nothing yet, for liberty or for your country. We pardon your ignorance, but let your zeal repair your tardiness. Here are arms; they will serve you to destroy tyranny. All those wsho bear the name of noble; all those who want to conduct us in the name of God or of the King, merit the name of tyrants. They ought to be Spoiled, covered with infamy; nor is their blood pure enough to merit our !' regret. The ties of blood and of ft rend ship ought to be broken. skc are the children of our country alone, and she only has a " "^ht to our obedience. Hinder, above all things, the flight of our enemies, and let the smoking castles of our province. Serve as trophies to your vengeance; for, I repeat it to you, the
French are free i and, far from being punished.
( 35)
nisncd, a thousand voices shall celebrate the heroic deeds which I command you to perform.”
He was silent, and a thousand different opinions were heard among the inhabitants of the valley.
The Sweet Sound of liberty had moved all hearts, and warmed all their courage; but the idea of destruostion and of carnage came Soon, to darken this delicious picture. Some, contented with their lot, were desirous only of peace; others beheld, in bellefert’s difeourse, a false representation of events, of which they must await a more certain account, in order to determine. Shall I own it? Others there were who, animated with the same demon, which had inspired bellesert, burnt with the desire of following his traces. Montane, with his eyes fixed on the ground, kept a profound silence. All
C 6 at
y
( 3^)
at last addressed themselves to him, as to a
!
man who ought to ansvver for them, and V hose opinion they Swore to follow.
Montane heard them without proffering a single word. He yields at last to their redoubled importunities; rises Slowly, Supported on one side by a knotted stick, and aided on the other by Pedrera, he addressed himself to the battalion of St; ' Licer in these words :
h
“Young men, you Say you are conducted by the love of your country, and a zeal for liberty. We believe it j can the.
J
hearts of the French be animated by other motives? But you Speak to us of oppression, of plots, of bloodshed, of men to punish, of revenge. Has, not the zeal which animates your hearts misted your under
I '
standing? — Consider these mountains, which encircle our valley; the inhabitants they contain in their circuit have
4 always
$
#
( 37)
always been free. Submissive to the laws, and faithful to the Monarch of the French. If your towns are enslaved, it is becausc their inhabitants contended for the bonds with which they desired to be chained. It is true that wicked men have Sometimes deceived the confidence of our good King, and abused his authority. Injustices have been committed, even un der shelter of the laws which forbid them • but because clouds Sometimes darken the Sun, wmuld you withdraw from its benign influence? Consider the earth: it is governed by laws which recall the Seasons, and preserve its fertility; if a storm wastes our fields, or if at one time sterility Spreads itself on our grounds, shall we abandon our meadows, and shall we rise
I
to oppose the laws of nature? It is the Same with all governments j let us be re signed to its evils, and let us rejoice in
its
A
( ds)
ks favours. Would you wish to change it? — Will your’s be perfect? And if we must change one evil for another, and one abuse against another abuse, it is better to remain subject to those whose force has been destroyed by habit, than with much pain to procure others. Asto the plots of which you Speak, without doubt, by abusing your youth they have surprised your credulity. Plots! Does a father make any against his children? Does the labourer destroy the cottage in which he reposes?? say the citizen has broken his bonds, and destroyed his tyrants : May the innocent never have been confounded with the guilty! — But if, like us, you are Sree, if all France is animated with the same Spirit, why these threatening arms? Why this appearance of war? — You wish that all men should be free f that property should be assured
to
( 39)
to all; and you want to oppressuhe citizens at your will, and to destroy his property! Be consistent with yourselves, and do not, at least, be more unjust than
the great, whom you detest.
Are we called on to repel the enemies of the kingdom? To defend our King, habitations, our altars, religion, virtue? You have only to command, we are ready to quit these places, and to fly wherever there is any danger; but if we must arm ourselves against our brothers! against the citizens I against the French! you must not depend on us: we love peace, and
we detest revenge.”
ft
All the shepherds applauded the Speech of Montane; Louisa rejoiced to See peace triumphant; whilst a threatening mur
0;
mur was heard from the midst of the battalion. bellesert dissembled his rage, and,
penetrating into the midst of the ranks,
gave
( 40 }
. \
gave Secret orders, and very soon the val
»
was rid of the weight of arms and of those who bore them.
bellesert was the only one of them who remained in Aranvilie. He had observed Pedrera conversing with louisa, and he doubted not that they understood each other; and he even suspected the first of having come to inspire the inhabitants of the valley with Sentiments which were not patriotic, for So he
termed them; that is to say, which were not correspondent with his desires. He saw himself repulsed in his love, and disappointed in his ambitious designs; which, however,, only gathered new strength from thence. His last project, that upon which he determined was, to declare himself fully, and either to succeed or to be revenged. Master of his troops he had ordered them to retire
certain
( 4t)
\
certain of being able to recall them, more
furious than ever, as soon as he wished for it.
Xhessun rendered the heat insupport able; and the crowd which were assembled, had began to disperfe,; bellesert approached Montane and louisa; and, composing his countenance and his voice,
he ashed leave to share the shade with
«
them, and their repast. I shall be able, ” added he, to convince you of the purity of our intentions, and the necessity of our steps.' ’ Montane Smiled, and conducting bellesert to the side of the pure spring which ran near his cottage, he made him sit down on the Sresh
giass, and recommended to louisa to
regale her guest.
While she prepared their Srugal dinner, bellesert represented to old Montane, with the most lively colours, the abuses
of
( 42 }
of despotifm; the long fuffcrings of the people; the multiplicity of the taxes; the crying oppressions of the great,, and the necdsity of completing the revolution vshich was begun.
Montane ackno pledged these evils; but disapproved tiie violent means which they had made use of to destroy them. ‘‘ Believe me, ” replied Bellefert, “if these injustices had more immediately fallen upon you, you would have been the first to have invoked vengeance on their perpetrators.”
Very well, ” ' said, at last, Montanc;, you shall judge. You will see if any one had more reason than I have to detest them. I had one fon; he loved glory, but accompanied by virtue. ‘ Permit me, ’ said he to me, one day, ^ to go to serve my country and Louis; I shall Spend my blood, or return worthy of you :
for,
%
( 43)
for I Suall imitate you I embraced
him, and he went away. The news I
*
received from him consoled me for his absence. He distinguished himselt, was. promoted, and I rejoiced. His commander was his friend, and carried him with him to the capital. My fon saw one of his relations; he loved her; and these monsters affassinatecl him, because a title did not embarrass his name.”
And you still love them! ” Said Eellefert.
No said Montane; but between two evils 1 chuse the least. The King would have heard us; he would have been just; and, if he was a tyrant, in place of one, a multitude is going to devour us. Consider the frightful Con sequences of anarchy; a civil war, the most cruel of all wars, which she drags
always in her train. You boast of castles
destroyed i
ft
f
( 44)
destroyed; of nobles flaughtcred; the
law's are then without force, or they exist no longer; and, remember, it is better to have defective ones than not to have any. From the moment that licen tioufncfs t3.kcs the nriiic of liberty thsit slic dares to find, under shelter of this tide, the impunity of her crimes, she has no longer any bridle; and tomorrow those will groan in their turn, who ' have ma le an abuse of it today.”
Louisti interrupted this conversation;;
rears ran from her eyes, for she had heard the name of her brother.
• ^nd you, amiable siiepherdels !** said bellesert, addressing himself to her,
do you alsh blame men who are free, for avenging him for whom you weep ?” Without a doubt S’ said the shepherdess;; « doubles our calamities; it is always useless and cruel. May
those(
()
those who made my brother perish, lament their victim, as I have done his death! it will then be expiated.” Bellefert, confounded, durst; insist no longer;; Such is the impression which beauty causes on our hearts, that its touching language had nearly Testored him to virtue.
A Simple, but well tasted repast, awaited Montane and Bellefert. They sat down in silence, and louisa Sought to hide her tears; but her labouring breast could hardly stisie her Sobs.
bellesert, disconcerted rather than intimidated, tried to console her. He
9
knew not that the consolation of the man who is importunate only aggravates our Susterings; and Louila very Soon retired. She went alone, to weep the
oeath of her brother, and .her country torn to pieces.
Grown
( 4^)
Crown holder by her absence, Belle seit imagined that he might mo -- 'e by ambition, him whom a desire of vengeance had not been able to conquer. He reprefentoct to Montane his country, crowning with its confidence, those who Should facrisice themselves for her; and,, entering into a detail of the strange jumble cf the new order of things, he indicated to him the places which would recompense his zeal.
Montane, in place of an answer, uncovered his white hairs, and showed him the earth, wshere they should very Soon be deposited.
Be it So, ” Said bellesert; but louisa, this child So beloved, made to
be adored by all those who See her, do
you count it nothing to prepare for her
a lot worthy of her? Who among us
would not esteem himself happy to offer himself to her?”...
“Hold,
\-
T 47)
“Hold !” said Montane, carried away by his indignation, ‘‘whoever loves virtue is worthy of Louisa;; hands which are stained with blood, shall not long profane her sight.”
This answer cut belesert through, as the axe, in the hand of thb woodman, the pine destined to fall under his strokes. He was silent, and meditated revenge. Having bid adieu to Montane, he rejoined his men, who were waiting for him at the bridge of Sales. It was there that, having represented to them the affront they had just received, from the inhabitants of the valley, by their refusal to join them, he wanted to engage them to carry destruction to their abodes.
His people were deaf to his voice, as they were to that of honour, and of their country. They had been told, that the castle of, Pontac remained to
be
( 48)
/
be destroyed, and that they would find gold there. Happily there was none at Aranvilie. They marched then to hontac, aster having placed Spies and guards at all the pastes.
Meanwhile Pedrera related to the shepherds of Aranvilie, the news he had heard from the capital and from the provinces. Pedrera was a Spaniard. He placed honour in his fidelity to his Sovereign. His speech carried all Suffrages; a second time it was decided
that they should not change their peace
\
crooks, for the instruments of slaughter and of death.
t1 lis resolution dried up the tears of louisa. Pedrera perceived it; and
this triumph of his eloquence was the
•>
finest moment of his life. His hopes increased; and where is the lover who would not flatter himself with moving
the
. t
( 49)
»
the heart of a shepherdess, whose griefs he had sostened } -- -- -- louisa, recollecting
the discourse of her father, thought she discovered in herself an emotion of gratitude which was too tender; fear made her cheeks grow pale; and it was
not till after Sue had consulted herself
»
her real Sentiments, that gaiety restored her charms to her. Pedrera, happy in his error, returned to venasques; but his heart remained'at Aranvilie, and the image of louisa accompanied him everywhere.
The valley enjoyed peace anew, and very Soon the rapid events of the day
4
appeared but as the traces of a painful dream, which were effaced by awaking.
On the banks of the Rioumayour, not far from Aranvilie, there rises a forest,
covered with old pines. There the jes samine, the honeysuckle, and the modest
D eglantine.
( 50)
eglantine, interwoven, contend for the prize of their perfume, and the splendour of their colours. At the centre of th is forest issues, from the foot of an old willow, a spring, famous for the purity of its waters, and for the miraculous virtues which are attributed to it. Its borders are ornamented with a thousand kinds of flowers, to which it gives birth; the Sweet murmurs of its waters, mixed with the Songs of the nightingale, perched on the hawthorn tree, which shades it, have obtained for it the name it still bears, “the shep herdefs Fountain.” The Rioumayour winds here, in order to receive it in his breast, and to encircle almost the whole forest in his course. At a dis tance are presented to view the naked
and barren rocks of Gafpet. They form a part of Pic de Midi, and Separate
( 51)
rate the valley of Aure, from the forest of Bonrepos, and the fields of the
unfortunate La Peyroufe,
The narrow and dangerous roads which traverse these mountains, are rarely passed, lave by the intrepid hunter, or the amorous shepherd. On the Southern sido the Sertile hills of traimefan^i'es show themselves, overlooked by the mountains of Arragon. A narrow path, where the grass is hardly pressed by
the feet of the shepherdesses, is the only one which conducts to this delicious fountain. It was here that Louisa used to conduct her flock, during the heat of the day, to the shade of a beech, whilst she herself. Seated at the feet of the willow, from whence the spring escapes, arranges the flowers gathered by her hands. When the Sun no longer gilds. Save the Summit of the
h2 Pic
{ 52)
Pic de Midi, the shepherdess brings back her flock to the plain, where the Neste mixes its waters with the Rioumayour; and there, in the midst of the willows, which shelter their forms, the voice of Louisa pleases itself to
make the echoes repeat the ancient songs of the canton of Berne; still they are heard, when the fun, wrapped up in her Sable mantle, obliges her to bring back her sheep to her cabin of Aranvilie. The following day renewed the Same occupations, and the Same pleasures; nor ever did weary dulness inhabit these abodes, or make the day Seem too long.
Louisa was quite given up to these favourite occupations, yet she could not
forget the Scenes she had been witness to, in the midst of these verdant meadows i still it Seemed to her that she
Saw
(s3)
Saw the threatening arms of Bellefert; and the noisc of the waters of the Rioumayour recalled to her imagination the barbarous cries of these robbers.
This recollection was every day made
»
stronger, by the news which arrived from all sides. The castles of the provinces destroyed, and their poffesstors put to death, wherever a speedy flight had not Saved them; and that the citizens, armed, had permitted or faintly resisted these excesses, when they themselves did not commit them.
The great escaped from the capital, and all the noble fugitives, from their castles, sought to gel out of their country. Some among them had even penetrated into Spain, by the road of Bareges, and the passes of Pau, and of Lavedan. It was from those that they were informed of
the violence done to the King, of
D 3 his
( 54)
his captivity in Paris; and the maltacre of his guards. Other Gentlemen, less happy, had been arrested; and now these roads, as well as the passes of Aure and Venafquct, being carefully guarded, rendered flight impossible.
These events were the Subject of long conversations among the inhabitants of the valley. When their labours were ended, before the door of old Montane, they listened in silence to the account which he gave to them of the beginning of monarchy; the rights of the people, and the obligations of their Sovereigns. He painted to them the ancient attachment of the French nation to their Kings, and the efforts made, in all ages, to destroy these bonds of union, which form the glory of the King, and the happiness of the people. louisa devoured these words; and her heart, alternately
( 55)
ternatcly agitated between hope and fear, mourned for all the insults with which they outraged their Sovereign. One of her companions brought, one day to her, the Bernois sling, made on the captivity of this good Monarch. While she listened to it her tears fell in abundance, and, from that time Sorward, these Sad sounds were repeated, without ceasing, on the banks of the Neste, and Rioumay
Louisa had gone one morning, earlier than usual, to the Shepherueffes Fountain. Her dog, the faithful Zephyr, a name which his lightness in the chase
had obtained for him, lav at her side. H is pensive mistress retraced to her mind the evils with which men afflicted one another. “Why are they not all happy 1** said fne to herself“ “they not all to love one another as 1 love my compact
4 nions?
( 56 }
panions? What a frightful pleasure that of Slaughtering our fellow-creatures! If Sometimes the devouring vulture and the timid dove offer themselves to my eyes, my heart is torn asunder; and men, whose portion ought to be mild ness, it is they themselves who Sacrifice each other to their ambition! Suddenly reflecting on the destiny of this King, whose fate was the object, a few years ago, of the desires of the most powerful Monarchs in Europe; her heart could not refuse itself the idea of repeating once more this charming’ ballad, which paints So well to us the virtues
A
and the troubles of this grandson of
1 leirry.
(
She had hardly recited the first verse, when her favourite Zephyr starting up Suddenly, made the Sounds of his silver voice be heard. Never had this little companion
I
/
( 57)
4
companion of her walks been heard in vain. Louisa, astonished, stops, rises, and, turning her eyes towards the side
>
of the forest, tried to discover the Subject of his clamours.
Two strangers piercing, through the thicket, offer themselves at last to her view. She beheld them approach with difficulty; sadness seemed painted in] their countenance; their eyes wandered with disquiet on all the objects which surrounded them; and, from their tottering step, it might easily be perceived, that their delicate feet had been hurt with fatigue.
The first was a young man, about twenty years of age. A mixture of
%
pride and rhildnels covered his coun
9 f
ctenance. his hair, of the Softest tint, fell in dishrdcr over his shoulders. A silk coat, and laced linen, torn, announced
D 5 mil
I
( 58 ]
still icss than the graces of his figure, his birth and misfortunes. Louisa, in Seeing him, believed she beheld the god who is Sung by the shepherdesses. To her he was one. He conducted by the hand a lady, still younger than himself; fair as Aurora, but whose charms clouded with grief, discovered the profound melancholy with which she was devoured.
Louila, whom an involuntary emotion of terror had led to go away, reproached herself for so doing. The air of these strangers, the misfortunes which, without doubt, had led them to these places, more than this, the irresistible ascen dency which those take over our hearts, who are made to please us, had inspired Louisa with the most tender Sentiments for these two unfortunate fugitives, when she was accosted by them.
Amiable
( 59)
"Amiable shepherdess, ” Said the stranger, with one of those Soft Sonorous voices which persuade while they attach us, “may we ask if this place is still far distant from the frontiers of Arraaon: and where are the passes which will
conduct us thither? Without a doubt' my question will create suspicions, which we ought to efface; but we dare to believe that we Snail have no reason to repent yielding to the confidence with which you inspire us.’’
Noble strangers” ” the shepherdess, " I understand your distresses,, and your projects; I pity you, and would wish to serve you. But how can 1? My feet have never quitted this valley. — They have indeed told me, that at half a day ’s journey from hence, this mountain, which you See over top the others. Separates us from venascjues; but they Say
L 6 that
( 6o)
/
that its narrow passage is guarded. If
my advice should lead you into a Snare, Satal to your lives, judge if I should not die with despair. Come with me to our cottage: My father is old, but he is well instructed; he will give you his counsels, you will take some repose, and Heaven will do the rest.”
I doubt it no longer, since I have found an angel, in the midst of the tigers who persecute us, ” cried the stranger, pressing with transliort one of louifa’s hands, who fiintly resisted. You are
so good as to interest yourself for us then! Ah, it is worthy of beauty to assist misfortune! I own it to you, overwhelmed by fatigue and want, and beholding in all men only executioners,
%
Seeking to kill us, we hid ourselves in this forest, uncertain what should become of us I desire death; I still implore
it;
/
( 6i)
't
it; but how ban I abandon this beloved sister, whom I accompany, already So unfortunate, and who has only been Saved by a miracle from the hands which pur sue us? In the midst of these overwhelming reflections, accents have struck our ears. Fair shepherdess, it was the Sound of your voice which penetrated
my heart: I said to my sister, this voice is that of a shepherdess; their manners are Soft and simple; let us venture to discover ourselves; she will never be So base as to betray our confidence. My sister yet hesitated; and I heard you already deploring the Sorrow of our good master. Let us fly,"’ Said I to her; her voice pities our King; will she
refuse to hear his faithful Servants? I did
»
well to believe my heart. I am almost consoled already. — But Say, thou tutelary angel of these countries, does your father
resemble
%
( 62)
resemble yon? — Pardon my suspicions; Man, overwhelmed with evil, is ready to become unjust.”
If you had anything to fear from my father, ” said Louisa, 1 Snould conceal you from his sight. Take courage i my Sentiments are those with which he has inspired me; and he has this advantage over me, the prudence which accompanies years. But I believe that you are very much fatigued; it is a great way to our cottage, the fun is not yet down, and perhaps it is of importance that you .should not be Seen. Stay here, near this fountain; nobody comes hither at this hour. I shall go to Seek my father : I will bring you Some fruit, the only food of our climate; You and my father will consult on the road you ought to take.”
Alas, louisa pronounced these last
words
f 63)
words with pain; she was ignorant that her heart was wounded; and the painful idea of abscnce, and of distance, and of the strangers going away, afflicted her already.
i
We abandon ourselves to your generous care, ” Said the stranger, " provided you promise to us that we shall See
\
you with your father.”
Louisa affures them that he will not come without her; and with a nimble foot she ran, without stopping, to their cottage at Aranvilie. She very soon related to her father the subject which
#
brought her. She was longer in painting the strangers; her eulogiums of their air, their conversation, the recital of their misfortune, never finished. She believed that the compassion she wished to inspire in their favour, was the motive of her discourse j but it was dictated
( 64)
tated by the pleasure one feels in discoursing of what one loves.
Montane had never denied him
W
Self the delicious sensation of doing good; and misfortune had, above all, claims in his eyes, which nothing could
annihilate.
‘‘thefe strangers, ” Said he to Louisa“ “persecuted; it is not for us to decide, whether or not they are guilty; our duty is to assist them. Woe to the hard heart, which, in order to be So without remorse, measures its favours by the actions of those who Solicit. — To be julf, he begins by being cruel. Let us be beneficent. Remember, my daughter, that this is the only virtue of which one never repents.”
louisa embraced her father: tears of joy escaped from her eyes, and never had virtue enjoyed So much the pleasure of do ing good. Excellent
{ H)
Excellent milk, fresh bread, velvet peaches, gathered fresh from the tree, which shaded the window of Louisa, oranges, the production of the country, were very soon shut up in a bashet of white ozier which she had woven on the banks of the Neste, and in which she used to bring refreshments to her father, when he was occupied with the painful labours of agriculture. louisa. covered it with a cloth, whiter than the Snow on Pic de Midi; and, having
taken the basket on her arm, she conducted old Montane to the shepherd’s Fountain.
“Here is my father, ’* Said louisa to the strangers, while she emptied her bashet on the grass; “he loves you already: but, before we Speak of business, taste the fruits of our mountains. It is little, compared to the food of your
towns;
{ 66)
towns; if we could, we should have offered that to you with as good will. Old Montane made the strangers sit down, who had risen at his approach. He placed himself by the young man, whilst his daughter, near the fair stranger, engaged her, by the sweetest caresses, to take some food, and to dissipate her melancholy.
Exhausted equally by fatigue, fear, and a devouring hunger, our strangers very Soon resumed their strength and Spirits. The dark cloud of despair which covered the face of the young man, soon made place for a more cheer full countenance; and a Sweet Smile began already to play on his lips. — His sister, though jgh less afflicted, retained an air of I nguor, which appeared lest the effect ot the present circumstances, than of habitual grief.
Montane
( 6y }
Montane, who, till then, had avoided recalling their misfortunes, for fear of adding to their Sufferings, Saw himself obliged, at last, to explain their situation to them.
\
“You condescend, ” Said he to them,
to trust to my directions, in order to get out of the kingdom, in which you are persecuted. From the time my daughter informed me of your intentions, I have thought without ceasing for you; and this is my opinion. — If you turn to the right, you will find Luz and Bareges. These two places are filled with your enemies; should you escape their vigilance, you will not escape those that watch at the bridge of Gabarnis. To the left lie St. Licer and castle loo, both equally dangerous.
“It is true, that the passes of Aure
and
»
( 68)
\
and Venafques are before you, and that way you may get into Spain, which is but five leagues from thence; but 1 have received undoubted intelligence
that they are carefully guarded. -- -- -- --
This valley, and this spot, above all, are the only ones sheltered from the enraged people of France. We owe this happy Security to the mountains which Surround us, and to’ our distance from every road sit for a carriage. —
Once only they thought to induce us to quit our peaceful modes of life, but the manner in which we, received this proposition must have deprived them
of all idea of renewing the endeavour
It will therefore be very imprudent for you to attempt the pafs at present. Remain with us: I am but a poor labourer, but I have a place to
lodge
■( h)
lodge you, and fruit to feed you. I shall not Speak of the privations you will have to undergo; my heart makes me feel them beforehand j but we shall find a way to alleviate these: rea son and necessity will do the rest. — A young man from Venafquct comes very often to this valley: we will make
him the confident of your situation: He is noble and a Spaniard; assuredly
he will not betray you; by his assistance we shall find time and means, more favourable for your evasion.”
Yes; remain with us: ” added Lou
0
ifa, with vivacity, to the strange Lady.
You will enjoy our pleasures, and, perhaps, you will not So much regret yourst.’*
The young man, absorbed in those reflections, which the words of Montane had given birth to, cast a look
4 upon
( 70)
%
upon his daughter; and, coming to an immediate decision, I yield, my father said he, we shall obey you. And where, indeed, could we find a more fortunate abode, and more tender consolations?? — nevertheless, my father, (for I cannot name you otherwise) to. whom you give life and happiness. You may, perhaps, believe me
/
criminal, and my heart will only be at peace when we are justified.’’
Montane, who had risen already to conduct them to Aranvilie, Seated himself anew, and the young man continued in these terms:
y
“My father was called the Count de valledeuip j a name well known to the
* The respect due to persons still alive, have
«
fflbliged us to change names, which are too well
#
known. — Author.
Monarchs
/
/
( i)
Monarchs of France for Seven centuries. In his time he might have availed himself of his ancestors, but his virtues gave him consequence enough, without being obliged to shelter himself under the name of an illustrious
J
family.
** Honoured with employments of importance, he testified everywhere a zealous love and attachment to his King and country. Appointed to the first Presidency of one of those Sovereign courts, formerly the organs of the law, and the depositories of the rights of the people, he was one of those, who, during the last reign, had, more than once, dared to carry the complaints of the nation to the foot of the throne; and his noble firmness did not difpleale our Monarch. He was even destined to become the Supreme head of the
magis(
()
magistracy, when death carried him off from our affections; without a doubt Heaven wanted to recompense his virtues, in Sparing him the grief of Seeing those evils which rend his country
asunder.
“He had three children, of whom I am the Second. This sister, who you See, has always been endeared to me, more by the ties of triendship, than those of blood. A long while besore the French had proscribed the nobility, she lamented having been born in a situation too exalted for her happiness. But I shall lay aside this Subject, that I may not renew her Sufferings.
« My brother, a great deal older than myself, had inherited a title from my father, while they gave me the nanie of my estate of Seville. Our dispositions did not harmonise together; our
tastes.
( 73)
tastes, our inclinations, all were dissert

cnt. My brother, intoxicated with his
birth, only esteemed his equals. -- -- -- -- -- -
Shall I own it? He held, perhaps, those odious principles which have provoked the fury of the people. His name had procured him a distinguished title in the career of arms, before his Services had been able to deserve it. He was brave, intrepid; his King was his God, and to obey him was his only duty.
You know the fatal designs which were attributed to our warriors. The people accused my brother of having favoured these plots; our foliositations had. in vain tried to engage him to Seek his security out of the kingdom. From, his castle he appeared still to
brave the people of his demesne. They
*
have revenged themselves in a cruel
E manner;
i
»
( 74)
manner; and my unfortunate brother has augmented the list of slaughtered nobles.
1 was at Paris with my sister, Solely occupied with the study of letters. I was innocent, and believed myself in
I
Safety; I was soon insormed, however, that my brother was massacred, and that the Same Sat was intended for me. My name was become a crime, and I possessed one of those places, which, under the late Government, led to profitable employshents, but whose title was abhorred in the provinces. My name, already repeated in the streets of the capital, by a furious troop, announced the Species of death to which we were destined. At the same time this mad people obliged two of the most eloquent defenders of their rights, to Seek a Sure asylum in Helvetia.
It
m
( 75) '
It was absolutely necessary to be Sanguinary, to fly, or to be massacred.
I chose flight. The hope of Saving my sister emboldened my courage; and, in five days, we have arrived in these countries. On our way we Saw, everywhere, bloodthirsty men. At ten leagues from hence we were stopped, and were over whelmed with those outrages which cruel men show to vene
%
mous reptiles; but, while they prepared, doubtless, for us, one of the most cruel deaths, a dark night, and the assistance of one of their party, who detested their cruelty, in secret, procured us our deliverance.
** Since then, wandering alone, on ■ foot, and at random, in the forests,
we found at lasr, a difficult path which
%
led to the heart of these mountains. We followed it; hunger, grief, fatigue,
E 2 devoured
( 7^)
devoured us, but all these distresses did not stop us; it Seemed continually to me that I beheld tigers followinec
O o
us, ready to cast themselves on my sister. From rock to rock we have "descended into this valley | where hid in this wood, motionless with lassitude, and weakened by the tortures of hunger and anxiety, despair seemed to preclude all refourfe to our wretchedness, when
this amiable shepherdess came to cure all our for rows.”
Montane listened to Seville with the tender interest which the good take in all those who are unhappy. In place of loading him with those consolations, always fruitless when evils are yet recent; he sought to dissipate the recollection eft hem.
Henriette de Valledeuil had renewed her tears at the relation of her brother;
louisa
( 77)
«
Louisa shared, while she wiped thern away.
Night had already began to appear, when they all four took their way to Aranvilie. With what pleasure did our travellers take shelter under the root of Montane! Seville has repeated it a hundred times, he had never felt one equal to it, under the gilt cornices of the capital;
Sweet Sleep Soon came to make them Sorget their iatigues and then Sorrows. louisa alone could not enjoy it. This was the first time that repose had for saken her eyelids; but it was also the first day that she loved. She herselt did not suspect the cause; the Sweet palpitation, the Secret disquiet, and the image, ever present, of Seville, the plfasure which fly took to re trace to herself all his words, the desire of bee
3 ' holding
( 78 }
holding once more the dawn, which was to present him to her sio ht, fa tigued her mind, without its beiik> able to detach itself from an object, already too much cherished.
Sometimes stie attributed to his birth, the ascendancy he had taken over her; Sometimes it was his misfortunes which had softened her heart; and, in the
midst of these refleaions, the image
of Seville, his gestures, his deportment, his eyes, his flaxen hair, presented themselves to her looks, and the touching sound of his voice seemed to resound in her ears.
The rising day had already dispel led the nocternal shades, while Louisa was still plunged in these reflections; and her father, seated before his cottage door, converted with Seville. He had made him observe the rising of
the
( 19)
the Sun, that Superb sight, of which the rich are ignorant, and whose magnificent beauty is known only to the shepherd of the Alps, or the Pyrenean
pastor.
The peaceable enjoyments of the simple cultivators were the subject of their conversation. Montane portrayed the natural pleasures of the shepherds; their joy, celebrated in song.. they feel at the return of the spring, or when the scorching dog days gih!e<l their harvests j the sportive games, by which they signalised their strength, and their address, and demonstrate a perpetual gaiety.
It was by Such description as these, that the old man wished to soften, in his guell, the regret of the effeminate life of courts, by opposing to them the pure and simple pleasures of
E 4, the
\
( 8o)
the country, wnich are the portion of the humblest class of citizens.
Seville was a young man, in the heart of whom, the manners and en joyments of great towns had not yet quite extinguished the love of the true pleasures of nature. He heard with eager attention the dilcourse of Montane; his heart desired to make one in the number of shepherds of this district, and the past greatness no longer appeared cut as a burden, of which he was happily relieved.
\
louisa appeared at last, accompanied
by Henrietta de Valledeuil, and their
arrival interrupted these rural reflections.
Seville embraced his sister with the most
tender Sentiments of friendship. Come, ”
laid he, “enjoy with me the delightful de
feriptions of our deliverer. we believe
*
these good people are unfortunate, and that
they
( 8i)
they envy our fate. What" errors'! and thou thyself, why hast thou not come Sooner, to hear the details of the lives of the inhabitants of these countries? Behold these happy meadovys,, these smiling hills, these winding waters, these flowers, as sine, and more fresh than those of our gardens. Nature has done all here; art does not disfigure her here, with a cold and heavy hand; at most she Seconds her.
Behold this wood, where this able mistress, interweaves the honeysuckle with the beech, and the cypress with the evergreen pine so much better than our gardeners! What are our enjoyments, compared to those which
i
these places offer to their cultivators! Thou wert in the right; it
is only in the fields that one can be happy! This mediocrity, of which thorn
'* if ^
E 5 wert
( 82 }
wert ambitious, this liberty, which, alas! has formed the object of thy desires, and thy misfortunes, is to be found here. Pardon me; 1 recall a
cruel recollection, but my heart shares it.”
Then, addressing himself to Montane and to Louisa, You see my sister clouded with a cruel chagrin : do not believe that this place has the least
share in it. All her life she loved the country and mediocrity. There was a time when she would have esteemed herself happy in this abode. A house, like your’s this little garden, these meadows, would have fatissied all her desires and wishes; her heart had made its choice, and the pride of greatness had not directed her Sentiments. Fate has contradicted her hopes, but time has not changed her heart. —
Beautiful
p
7 s3)
Beautiful fliepherdefs, if you have been insensible hitherto, you will love one day; but then the iron feeptre of prejudice, and the cruel authority of your parents, will not poison in you the Sweetest Sentiment of your existence.”

These words, pronounced with the sire with which Seville animated all his difeourfes, were a ray of light, which painted to Louisa her real sentiments. Her heart, which beat powerfully, the oppression on her breathing, ^ a violent agitation, the trouble of her thoughts,
f
all told her that she loved; the speech of Seville Seemed to announce that she was not beloved in her turn, and this avowal, which she forced from herself,
t
added to the violence of her situation.
i
7
All the most overwhelming reflections offered themselves in crowds to her ima
E 6 gsination.
I
( 84)
r
<
imagination. « It is all over, ” said lier heart to her, 1 have let myself be overcome; love has penetrated .... What do I Say! It burns already in all my veins: and by whom has my weak heart Suffered itself to be Surprised? By a stranger, who I Saw yesterday for the first time, and who, i very soon shall see no longer; —
• s
whose fortune, birth, and condition, are
as much above mine, as our mountains are the valley. An immense interval. Separates us, and what remains for me? Shame, regret, and eternal grief.”
It was thus that the tender louisa deplored in herself, both her own weakness, and the unfortunate chance which had led Seville thither. As for him, he had beheld Louisa with that fofc emotion with which a young man, of a feeling heart, always pays the tribute
to
( 85) '
•9
to beauty. Her simple manners, her ingenuous language, and the touching candour of her soul had not escaped him; but, Sull of the great object of his Safety, and of that of his sister, he had not, till then, been able to open his heart to other sentiments.
4
The rapid reflections of louisa had troubled her So much, that her emotion was visible. Every one perceived it, and manifested their uneasiness. This was Sufficient to deprive her of all strength and courage. She thought that every one read her heart, and that they beheld her love for the stranger; and that contempt and ignominy were going to overwhelm her for ever, louisa
could not resist this shock.
Happy timidity of innocence, which
is still willing to combat the inclination of which nature has planted the
Seeds
{ %6)
seeds in our Souls, how rare art thou *
in tov ns, where premature enjoyments, and untimely corruption is habitual! But how Sweet a sight art thou to the tender and discreet lover, who dares to applaud his triumph!
Seville did not know the value of this
rnoment, • but his attentions re animated
louisa, who was fainting, and he owed
the pleasure of loving, to the happiness of being So.
Henrietta, till then. Sad and pensive; had flown to the assistance of the shepherdess; and her efforts, united to those of her brother, re called her, with difficulty, to the light. Both her hands were in those of Seville; her first emotion was to tear them away from him.
It is thus that love instructs the shepherdess to be cirumspect and rescrved. Seville thought he remarked in this
gesture
0
{ 87)
gesture an emotion of vexation; the difcourse he had held, the sudden fainting of louisa, which had followed, presented themselves rapidly to his imagina tion; he believed he had been indiscreet or guilty j and throwing himself at her feet, he begged her forgiveness, which she was but too much disposed
to grant.
Tears c^mc happily to the relief of l^ouif^.; istnd, in the rnidft of her sobs, turning ^iidc those fine eyes which dreaded to meet those of Seville, she gave him, in place of an answer, those broken and unmeaning words, which circumstances exact, and which the heart does not dictate.
Montane was the only one who thought he conceived the Secret motives of the Scene which had just passed; but she relied on the virtue of his daughter, and on
the
( 88 >
the confidence which she had in him. To Spare her cmbarrassrnent, as Soon as she was a little recovered, he gave her a commission, which left her time to recover hersels entirely, out of the presence of his guests. And, taking the short and knotted stick, on which he Supported his trembling hands, he Said to Seville, that he would' go, under Some pretence to Traimefanges, in order to inform himself more exactly of
the manner in which the pastes were guarded.
I leave you” added he. Smiling, and
looking at his daughter, I leave you with louisa. I hope she wnll not renew the late Scene: Pardon her, in consideration of the impression which your misfortunes have made on her.” louisa ashamed, wished for the darkest night to conceal her from all beholders;
but
%
*
1
( 89)
but it vas clear day, and the piercing eyes of a lover devoured her.
The moinent of her fainting away,
I
by atti acting the whole attention of Seville to her assistance, had shown him all her beauty. He had not been able to see So many charms without becoming extremely enamoured with her j — or rather, the first impression she had
made on him, though for Some time
• %
obscured by a sense of his missortunes, now appeared in all its strength. It
was thus, that whilst Louisa deplored her defeat, Seville owned his to himself.
Not less uneasy than louisa, but through a different motive, if Seville did not seek to extinguifli his flame, he trembled, at least, that it was not reciprocal. His timidity had only shown
%
him, in the eyes of Louisa, spite and
anger.
( 90 J
anger, in place of love and confusion, which animated them.
Montane was gone; Seville was with Louisa; beloved her; he was eloquent and Quick in his passions; the uncertainty of a moment appeared to him alreadr,
0 *
the torture of a century; and, nevertheless, he durst not open his heart. He became melancholy’ in his turn and oppressed; while louisa, relieved by her tears, had armed herself with what she deemed a Sufficient degree of courage to conquer her passion, or, at least, to take the knowledge of it from all that
Surrounded her.
time kept up
a languid and indifferent conversation,
between two persons, who would have desiied, and who feared, at the same time, to understand each other.
Louisa, who thought she Saw the troubles
4
( 91)
bles of her guests renewed, tried to console them for their present Situation, in picturing to them a more happy futurity.
“Amiable shepherdess” ” Seville, how sweet your consolations would be, if you read our hearts; if the happy futurity which you paint to us, offered the image of the kind of happiness which I desire. It is true the past afflicts, and the future alarms me, but it is from causes very different from those you suppose me to have. You See me Sad; it is the fear cf having offended you, of having displeased you; and if my blood, shed on the spot, could atone for my words, it would prove to you that my whole desire was to convince you of the sweet impression that your sensibility, for our misfortunes, has caused us. Charming louisa, 1 own it to you, I can no longer Separate your
pcrspn
f 92)
person from your favours. Ah, why cannot your sensibility be extended to the
unfommatc as well as to their misfortunes!
Louisa feigned not to understand Seville, but a Soft blush covered her checks; her heart told her she was beloved; siie
was enchanted with her triumph j and the joy which Sparkled in her eyes betrayed her heart. Seville read his pardon there; he fancied he Saw there a newborn love, and his heart expanded
at the hope of being happy, like a rose, closed in by the night, at the first ray
of the morning sun.
Unfeeling man, who hast never loved, you whose cold soul has never felt those tender emotions which follow each other with the rapidity of lightning; this hope, to which fear succeeds, and which vanishes m the moment of its birth, to
reappear
p
( 93)
%
reappear very soon with new strength; you who have never read, with joy, in the eyes of an innocent and timid shepherdess, desire, fear,, and love, combated by rigorous duty, palsions, which by turns colour her cheeks, and make her heart beat; to you, I Say, our recitals will appear cold and minutious. because you never were happy, your hearts cannot
believe in Sensations which have ever
#
remained unknown to them. But thou,
I
happy Seville, thou enjoyest thy victory! the Sweet balm of hope circulates wsith love in thy veins. Gaiety, joy and happiness reappears on his face; and he is once more that young man cited in the brilliant circles of the capital.
Louisa admires her lover, and cheriflies her love with delight; it is thus that love can at will, with a word, and in an instant, change our existence, and
4 our
( ■ 94)
/
our being, destroy, of make our talents shine.
Whilst Seville applauded himself for
having read the heart of his shepherdess; while louisa was occupied with the happiness of being beloved, and that this
sweet sensation threw every other rcflec
\
tion at a distance; the old Montane turning home from Traimefanges, made
Some that were more Solid, and less Smiling.
The connexion of his fon with one
above his rank had been the occasion of his premature death; and, by an inconceivable fatality, he law a great lord obliged to seek an asylum from him, and who would, perhaps, make an impression on the heart of his daughter,
which might render her^equally unfortunate.
A age, experience, and
the
y
y
( 95)
the example of his fon, always present to his memory, had rendered anxious, with regard to everything that might be Satal to his beloved child, had watched
4
her looks, her words, and even her silence. Pedrera had given him little uneasiness; Seville made him already apprehensive. Sometimes he taxed his fears as chimerical; Sometimes, giving way to them, he thought he beheld louisa the prey to a foolish passion j and, with whatever interest Seville might have inspired him, he could not look on him but as one of those men of the world, who poffess the fatal talent of pleasing, only to make a bad use of it.
“It is then true, ” said he, with bit terness, the great are always a curse for the man whom they, approach. Like the Pyrenean Avalanches, their rapid course tears and destroys the weak shrub
which
( 96)
I
which meets their passage; thus the noble and the rich, crush at pleasure, the poor man whom they meet with.’*
He had always fulsilled with joy the duties of hospitality, for this time alone, he feared that a good action w; old only produce the bitter fruit of regret.
o
What afflicted him most was, that the
passages, strictly guarded, obliged Seville to prolong his stay with him. He announced this news to them. Seville received it. with joy. The colour of the rose is more pale than the crimson with which the cheeks of Louisa were covered at hearing it. Till then, contented with loving, and with the hope of being So • the idea of distance had not yet troubled their happiness: : arrival of Montane
had given birth to this dread, and his recital dissipated it.
This old man watched louisa : very
/ Soon
( 97)
Soon confirmed in his fears; and being
no longer able to hide the truth from
\
himself, he sought the moment to Speak to her in private.
What are not the prodigious effects of those pafflons with which we let ourselves be Surprised? louisa, who had never beheld her Sather but as a friend,
and whose conversation, and mutual confidence had formed, till now, all her felicity, this same Louisa, today confused and embarrassed, when alone with him, dares neither open her heart to him,
nor raise her eyes, which betray her. -- -
Regret for having been conquered by her passion, a regret Soon dissipated by love itself, now awoke. The abyss which is before her feet is no longer veiled; the illusions of hope are dissipated, and the unfortunate creature felt no longer in her heart. Save love alone,
L the
’ ( 9s)
the cause of her sorrows; but like those terrible fires, known in ages past, and which take new strength in the element destined to extinguish them, louisa feels her love increase, even then when all tells her it will be the cause of her misfortune.
Montane himself, the old Montane, in place of reproaches, wished to console his daughter. His tears mix with his embraces; grief fuspends his voice; ‘.dou ifa, ” said he, with an effort, at last, this misfortune which, 1 dreaded, is then true: thy weak heart is conquered, and the confidence of my daughter has not preceded. the fears of her father. Behold the precipice into which thou through west thyself. Thou wert the happiest of shepherdesses; they named thee the ornament of our country; how many times did I feel vain at the eulogiums given to my Louisa!
Heaven
'( 99)
Heaven is just j it puniftres my vanity. —
And for whom does thy heart sigh? If it was one of our shepherds I should bless my daughter and her lover; the day of their union would recall my younger days, and the day following my white hairs
t
would repose in peace in the grave; for I should know my Louisa was happy. But one day has triumphed over thee, — A stranger, unknown, of the number of those whom they name the tyrants of our country, has surprised thy heart; and dost thou know thyself if he shares thy sentiments?? then it would be an additional misfortune.
“Believe in the experience, in the friendship of thy old father. These men, brought up in greatness, silse through habit, and by education, despise everything that is not themselves;; that have not those frivolous ads
2 vantages
o
4
%
( 100)
vantages which ornament without rendering them better. Their tongue, exercised
feigns what their heart does not feel. They hardly look on us as beings
of the Same Species. To Seduce and to
deceive us is a sport for them, which costs ' them no remorse''
'' is young, and his Soul Seems pure: Mistrust, my daughter, these vain illusions, deceitful fruits of appearances still more deceitful. Seville has the prejudices of his birth, and the falsehood of his condition, joined to this Seductive po liteness, and to these too brilliant talents, which he displays in vain, in order to persuade us that they are without blemish.
Thrown on our generosity, and in want of our assistance, he wishes to soften us with regard to his unhappy fate. He knows that virtue inhabits the
country;
C loi)
country; — he borrows the voice of virtue. Soon at liberty, in the heart of Spain, reunited to those of his own rank, we and our Services shall be forgotten. May we be able to Sorget them with the Same facility, and as few regrets!
** louisa, one word alone ought to recall thee to thy duty. Thy brother, our dear Adrien, exists no longer, and it was the great who niade him perish, because he was So unfortunate as to love. Thou knowest that all the news which our grief has been able to collect concerning him has been, that a vile as sassination, diret^ied by the brother of his mistress, who believed himself dishonoured by this demand, hastened his end. — — Think on thy brother; and remember that old Montane will never Suffer the
F 3 murderers
i
( ^02)
murderers of his fon to deprive him of his remaining child.”
louisa, drowned in tears, felt only the grief of having offended her. fither. This last remonstrance pierced her to the soul. She pronounced the vow to forget Seville, to reject his wishes, and to tear from her heart this involuntary inclination which governed her.
Thus this unfortunate creature felt
4
the pains of love before she knew its pleasures; and, deceiving herself, her mouth promised more than it was possible for her to perform.
Contented with her promises, the old man felt his heart relieved, and thenceforward he beheld the stay of the two strangers prolonged without usteasinefs.
Louisa, faithful to her oath, perceived very Soon how weak she was in its performance.
( 103)
formance. She now began to use all means to obtain the strength which her heart refused her. Seville perceived that he was shunned; that L ouifa, continually with her father or Henrietta, feared, in like manner to meet his looks, and even to hear the sound of his voice. In vain he sought an opportunity to converse with her alone, Louisa fled him with care; her frankness, her innocence had disappeared, and her conversation was nothing more than cool civility.
Montane applauded himself for the effo Its which he saw his daughter make to conquer herself; and fearing that the conduct of Louisa might afflict Seville, in persuading him that he 'was looked on as a troublesome guest, the old man rer doubled his cares and attentions to w^ards him; but the feeble consola
F 4 tions
( 104)
tions of friendship were far from making amends for the pains of love.
Many days had passed without young Seville having been able to Speak alone with louisa, and his love had still increased by these obstacles. The singular conduct: which they held with him, appeared inexplicable; nevertheless it
engaged him to make reasonable reflections.
Hitherto he had acted like all young men who possess much sensibility, and who let themselves be carried away by
their passions, without measuring the conseciuences, or calculating their end.
What am I doing ?** Said he, at last, to himself. Still in the midst of dan
9
ger; before I am even sheltered from the cruelties which have occasioned my flight, I" abandon myself to a violent
pashon;
4
( xos)
passion; by turns I hope, I fear; but still my love remains, and encreases hourly. It is true, she whom I adore joins to the purest Soul a heavenly countenance i and this virtue, this enchanting sweetness, which I Sought in vain in our proud capital: but, if she has the virtues of a queen, her birth is that of a shepherdess.
** Shall I endeavour to awaken in her heart Sentiments, which will form the misfortune of her life? Shall I betray the hospitality? Shall I corrupt innocence? and as a reward for having rescued me from death..............rather
let me become a victim to the fury of a mad populace, better than to justify the horrors which they commit towards those of my rank!
Shall I abandon louisa? — Shall I put my heart to silence? No j this is an
F 5 effort
( io)
effort to which I am unequal. And what Signisies to me this rank,, which is
thus persecuted and debasedwill it avail me in foreign countries? Yes j the Scoff and Sport of an unseeling multitude, it will Serve, like the monuments of ancient Rome, for vile reptiles to defile, and asses to trample on. Why shall I listen then to the voice of these vain prejudices? If my sister is unfortunate, is it not because this vain pride, which they termed a noble way of thinking, has struck her?
« They persecute us; and of all their
violent decrees, thrown out to destroy us, as the Spanish dogs were formerly let loose in Peru, to devour the Indians; shall I not avail myself of the only one, which, in the present moment, can flatter my heart, that which abolishes ranks, and places us on a level with the shepherds?
( 107)
herds? Yes, men are equal; there are only our executioners, who form an abhorred species apart.
Louisa has the advantages over me
of beauty, wit, the graces, and a purer virtue; fne is then Superior to me. It
is therefore for me to adore her, to try
0 _ _
to please her,, and to esteem myself happy to obtain her. And then let us live in Solitude, concealed, quiet, and, if it is possible, unknown to the universe.

My sister thinks as I do; I fly my country, which abandons me; no particular place attaches me, they have i broken all ties; I adore Louisa, perhaps
I might be able to render her happy.”
0
Such were the rapid and impetuous reflections which the young Seville made on the banks of the Rioumayour. His
heart was consoled, his mind became
F 6 quiet,
V
\
( io)
quiet; he only lived for Louisa. His. fortune, in part Secured in England, and partly in Spain, was Sufficient to procure him an honourable existence. The estates which he left in France became indifferent to him : his name, his titles, his place, were useless to him, and were to be the first Sacrifices on which he was to build his happiness.
Filled with this Sweet idea, he resolved to open himsels to Louisa;; endeavour to please, and to obtain the consent of
the respectable Montane.
In the midst of these dreams of hope, Seville resumed the way to the cottage. A path presents itself to his sight; it was that of the Fountain of Shepherdesses. Come” ” he, « let us visit once more this charming asylum; there I Saw louisa for the first time; yes, this place will always be dear to my heart.” He
Siry
speaks
»

( 109)
Speaks, and already his steps approach the fountain.
It was there that louisa fought, in this moment, to relieve, by her tears, the
grievous weight which oppressed her. —
«
She would have wished to forget Seville,
and all her effort only Served to recall his
%
image.
An imperious duty, her promises, might oblige her to overwhelm Seville with counterfeited marks of indifference, to fly his presence, and to reject his vows; but could she change her heart? No; she had Satisfied her virtue, and here her whole heart expended itself in sobs.
Seville approaches; he Sees louisa her head leaned against an old willow; an handkerchief covered her face. The pleasure of devouring her charms stops him for a moment; he soon perceives
her
( iiq ]
her grief; Sear freezes his Soul; and a sensation of respect; bid him retire. — louisa turns her head, perceives Seville, believes herself betrayed, and wishes
f
to fly. Seville, carried away by an involuntary emotion, darts like lightning in her way, and Stops her. Louisa defends herself, Seville was already at her feet; his hands press those of Louisa, and hindered her from flying. Adorable Louisa, pardon me, for having in my misfortune troubled your retreat; and deign to inform me of my crime. — You shun me — you hate me— — wsho
would have placed my whole felicity in
%
pleasing you. By what means have I merited this afflicting change? A few days ago, unknown and a fugitive, your goodness Saved my life; at present the sight of me Seems to inspire you with
terror; — your tears flow. Where is the
adorable
/
( I”)
adorable confidence which was in: everything you said?? are the motives of your tears? Confide your griefs in me. Ah, if my fortune, if all I have, all I am, and everything I can do, could
banish the slightest of your Sorrows.......
And, nevertheless, it would not be the most difficult Sacrifice I could make.”..,
\
Seville," Said louisa, interrupting him, ** If I shed tears it is for spite, because I cannot hinder myself from shedding them. Since I have seen you I cannot possibly have done otherwise than feel my esteem for you increased; you
cannot have offended me. Let this be sufficient; I cannot tell you more on this Subject: j if you will indeed oblige me, you will leave an unfortunate shepherdess.” Saying these words, her tears
4
began anew to flow, and profoundly sighing, she withdrew.
'Seville
( II)
Seville, struck like an oak which has been shivered with a stroke oi lightning. Seemed still to hear her; while louisa was already out of the forest.
Seville warm in his temper, gifted with an ardent and active imagination, loved, for the first time, that is to Say, with fury and passion. He reflected on the words of Louisa, on her grief, on the Secret which she wished to keep with so much obstinacy'; and he was very soon persuaded that he had a rival; that this rival was beloved, and that louisa, without doubt, contradicted in her inclination, and finding obstacles to her wishes, mourned her misfortunes. But
who could this rival be? Without doubt a simple shepherdi Could not this obstacle be removed? Perhaps so; but louisa loves him; and shall Seville de »
bale
( ” 3)
base his birth, and betray his virtue, by Surprising a heart given by love, with the Splendour of fortune?
All at once decided by honour, he resolved to Sacrifice himself for the happiness of louisa. I cannot be happy; at least let the happiness of my shepherdess console me. My fortune is immense. I shall share it with her. Gold, for once employed usefully, shall repair the evils which its abuse has So often occasioned: Without a doubt it may remove the obstacles which oppose the wishes of louisa. I shall be unfortunate, but I shall have been just: No; I shall not be altogether unsortu nate. Virtue consoles for the privations which she causes' ' us then fly j perhaps, one day, I shall Sorget...........
No; I shall never forget louisa; but I shall no longer drink from her eyes the
poison
()
poison which kills me.’» Thus reasoned Seville, in quitting the shepherdess.
Meanwhile Pedrera, conducted by his love, had returned to the Vale of Aure. This gallant Spaniard knew how to adore in silence, and to Suffer without murmuring. Perhaps he still hoped Something from time, a change of events, and, above all, from his constancy
Hope, it is Said, never dies but with us.
Montane expected him with impatience, in order, by his shill, to facilitate
the passage of the Pyrenees to Seville and to Henrietta, and to procure them a Sure
asylum at Venafques. Pedrera, insormed that his pretence was desired at Aranvilie, had flown to the old man.
This last, as he had warned Seville, did not hesitate to make a full confidence to the Spaniard. He named de Valledeuil,
( i)
deuil, his Situation, and what they wished from his assistance. Proud to be able to oblige the father of his mistress, he had offered immediately everything that depended on him to make the projected evasion Succeed; and they conversed on the measures they were to take, when Louisa returned home, after having fled from Seville.
The Scene which had just passed had rekindled all the violence of her love; and it was not without a great effort that she had been able to see Valledeuil at her feet, without betraying her promises, and without discovering her heart to him. This effort had exhausted her; and, a prey to despair, her tottering limbs had, with some difficulty, brought her back to the cottage.
Pedrera was the first object who presented
himself to her sight; He was with
her
()
her father, and they were fixing for tomorrow, the departure of Seville. -- -- -- -- -
Louisa heard it: She uttered a violent cry, fell down insensible, and almost without life. Henrietta and Valledeuil
received her in their arms; and. Seconded by Pedrera, who deluged her with remedies, they brought her back to life and to her griefs.
What a cruel sight to old Montane I He Saw his beloved daughter the voluntary victim of her obedience and her virtue. This unfortunate father could neither retain his grief nor his Sobs; he reproached himself with the Sufferings of louisa, as if they had been his work. Some indiscreet lamentations escaped him. The Sensible and Seeling Pedrera heard them, and guessed the rest; and from this moment he imposed on himself the most painful of all Sacrifices, that
of
I
( II)
of thinking no more of louisa, but in order to labour for her happiness.
She had resumed her senses, but without recovering her strength, and a burning Sever devoured her. The Sad Henrietta had conducted her to her
4
chamber, where they remained alone, that louisa might enjoy the sleep, which was necessary for her.
Montane and Pedrera, both profoundly afflicted, but through different motives, began to relume their conversation, when Seville, returning to execute his project, Sound them together.
Behold, ” Said Montaine to Seville, showing him to Pedrera, Behold the Spanish nobleman on whom I relied for your deliverance,, and we have not confided without reason in the honour of his sentiments.
Pedrera, for Some moments, had been
4 certain
( ii }
certain that Valledeuil had robbed him
of the heart of Louisa j he nevertheless embraced his rival with the
same warmth which made him labour for his evasion.
k
%
Seville, still occupied with the project of quitting Louisa, received with
ardour the efforts of the Spaniard.
They were nearly of the same age, and of the same height.
Pedrera, known as a stranger, could
pafs freely, and was no longer even
0
Searched. It was then resolved that Sei

ville Snould take his clothes, whilst Henrietta should dress like a shepherdess, by means of the habits of Louisa, whose name she should in like manner assume. Montane was to accompany them; and it was to be presumed that they would neither stop at the passage, the false Spaniard, nor the old man, nor she who was
f
to
( II)
to pafs for his daughter. Although it was next to impossible that Valledeuil, under the habit of Pedrera, should create any suspicion; nevertheless out of precaution, he was to have his pocketbook, to impost on those who might stop him.
The Scheme Seemed well laid; Pedrera regretted only his not being able to
accompany them; but prudence demanded that he should wait till they had attained a country house which he had, near venasques, and where he intended to join them, as Soon as the return of Montane should have informed him of their Safe arrival.
Their departure was anew fixed for that very evening. • It was requisite to gain the defiles of the mountains before day, in order not to be discovered by the herds of the valley, who knew Pedrera, and, above all, louisa, too welt,
to
( 120)
^ to be the dupe of those who were to wear their habits. these precautions were So much the more necessary, that the inhabitants of the neighbourhood could hardly be ignorant that unknown persons were at montane’s; and even distant emissaries were Said to have appeared in the valley.
As Soon as the plan of their evasion was quite Settled, Don Juan de Pedrera returned to his farm, to write Some let
N
ters, of which it was necessary for Seville
to be the bearer. This last remained with Montane.
This unfortunate father hid under a Serene forehead a Soul torn to pieces. In precipitating the departure of Seville, he knew he was going to strike another
stroke, perhaps mortal, to his dear Louisa
«
with the profound sensibility of her heart, he knew not how she
could
•/
( 121)
could resist the absence of Valledeuil; she who had never been able to Support the idea of it. But virtue and honour
Spoke, and Montane had always listened to their voiee.
On his side, our young Frenchman was only Supported in his painful Sacrifice, by the enthusiasm which the idea of rendering louisa happy caused to him; he Sorgot himself, in order to view, and to be occupied with her alone. It was in the force of his despair, that he
found strength enough to conquer his passion.
A moment’s silence had Succeeded the departure of the Spaniard. Seville interrupted it very Soon; and, pressing in his hands those of the old man: ‘‘ My father, ” 'Said he, I am going very soon to quit the land which gave me birth, the country which I idolised, and which
G repulses
( 122)
repulses me from its bosom. My wishes will always be for her welfare: Yes, in Ipite of the cruelties of my countrymen, the horror of all feeling hearts, and the astonishment of Sovereigns, I still love them : Not the French, thirsty of blood, listening to no other voice but that of vengeance, beholding no virtue. Save in a frightful disorder, and loading a Sovereign with affliction, whose goodness they must own, in Spite of their blindness. Not these, but the French, mild, amiable, generous; Such they were, and Such I
hope yet, one day, to behold them.
/
And if they are always Seduced by ambitious chiefs, 1 shall try to forget them; but I shall always say to myself. There was a man among them, a man, good without interest, virtuous without ostentation, and generous towards those of
whom he might have complained. This
man
‘ I
( 123)
man is you, and your memory, engraven* on my heart, will relieve my regret; for I shall know that there is yet a good citizen in an empire in which the world is debased.
** My father, I owe you more' than
«
life J for I owe you that of my sister. It is true, mine is of no price; and in this moment, still more than in any Other, it would be Sweet to me to lose an existence which is become painful to me: but it would have been painful for
me to have Seen my Sister at the mercy of these tigers. ‘
Some aays have been sufficient for me to learn to know you. I will not Speak to you of my gratitude: You have found in your heart the recompense of your action, the only one which is worthy of you. But 1 still dare beg one favour of you; — do not refuse it me. I
G 2 have
( 124 }
have a desire to contribute to the happiness of one who merits it, and to whom I am under infinite obligations. This person is in France, and in a province where I have very few ac quaintances, and whose delicacy would lead to a resusal of my gifts. What do I
4.
say? My gists? It is a Small part of what I owe : and on the other hand, I cannot, without your assistance, transmit them. You will neither be suspicious to
virtue, nor watched in your steps. -- -- -- -- -- --
But, before I open my heart to you. Swear to me that, faithful to the performance of my desires, you will execute my wishes with fidelity; and that you will employ whatever depends on you to make them succeed“
“Seville; ” said the old man,
0
“I promise it. If it is in question to render any one happy, or to do a good
action.
4
( 125)
action, if Heaven grants me time I shall
yet find strength.”
This promise is sufficientsaid
Seville: but do not forget that you
have made it to me. -- -- -- -1 have already
Spoken to you of my birth; of this
%
frivolous advantage, which is become So unfortunate to us; — my fortune is still more considerable; and, in spite of the diminution which circumstances may occasion to it, the death of my elder brother, and the care that my father
»
has taken to place a part of his funds in foreign countries, leave me very considerable resources. But you know, virtuous Montane, it is not Sufficient to be
\
. rich, in order to be happy; and, with my gold, you See me the most unfortunat® of mortals.
“I adored a charming girl; she rc fcmbled louisa : Beautiful as she is, her
G 3 soul
( 126)
Soul, like her’s, was still more So. Let not my words Surprise you, if here the graces are united to virtue; Heaven has, perhaps, given birth to a second louisa, and my love has been able to find in her the same attractions which your daughter poffeltes.
I had not the happiness of being beloved; her heart was already occupied; and, besore I Spoke, I Saw myself constrained to a grievous and eternal silence.
I penetrated her eyes, Sometimes obscured by tears. Perhaps a word escaped from her heart: I learned that she was in love; absit was not with me. It is impossible that he for whom her heart
declares itself, should not love and adore
/
her as I do, for nobody can approach her with indifference. She has everything
to please: : is but too Superior to me
in
( 127)
everything; but file is unprovided with
9
the gifts of fortune, which do not render us happy but in their employment.
Without a doubt this obstacle hinders her happiness; and my uneasiness will only be relieved, when I know her to be So...
“I have already informed you, I have infinite obligations to her : I am rich; 1 have even here, still with me, an hundred thousand livres of this lioht
O
substitute, which our persecutors have invented; and which I have saved from the Searches of their Satellites. Take tliese; they are uselefs to me. When I shall have attained the capital of Spain,
where a part of my fortune awaits me, you will make her I adore accept what I
leave with you, and you will have relieved
Mi ^ •
me.
G 4 It
C 128)
It is always sweet to See others do the generous actions of which we find ourselves capable. Montane Softened by the sentiments of Seville, received his papers, and repeated to him the oath to have
them conveyed to the person whose
»
and abode it now only remained for him to learn.
• ^
“I triumph at last, ” cried Seville, have received your promise; honour forbids you to recall it. She I. adore is louisa: Yes, it is your daughter. — Pardon me a Sentiment from which in vain I have endeavoured to defend myself"
"was going to throw my person and my fortune at your feet, at her’s : too happy to become the fon of the virtuous Montane. A moment has destroyed my hopes: I have surprised the heart of louisa; She loves — May th’ese
weak
C 129)
weak marks of my friendship raise, to her him whom her heart has chosen 1’* " Seville, ” replied Montane, coldly, ** you thought to deceive an old man: Happily I am not bound by my promises : Take back again your gifts, and hear me. Although the Splendour of greatness cannot dazzle mei own
to you, nevertheless, that my pride triumphed in hearing you name my dear
louisa for the object of your attachment.
“You love her; I am willing to believe it: But this inclination. Sprung up in a morning, will vanish in a Space like that which has formed it. Let us lay aside this reflection, which you are not at present in a Situation to bear. I own further to you, that if your station was on a level with mine, I should be vain of your choice. I do justice to
G 5 what
*
( 13°)
what you appear to me to merit, in telling you what my friendship thinks of you; You must, however, resume your benefaction; and to compel you to it, you oblige me to justify myself in your eyes, and to inform you of two painful truths.
An invincible reason, which men and nature can neither annihilate nor diminish, forces me to Set my daughter at a distance from all that are of distinguished birth J or those titles which our legislature have proscribed, but which they cannot destroy, since they are the
i
fruits of birth.
"I do not wish to afflict you, but learn, that it is these nobles that have killed my Son, the Support of my
V
white hairs, and of this louisa whom you love. I do not confound you with them: No, my dear Seville j but I
have
( HI J
have Sworn that the blood of those who have deprived me of my Son,
shall never unite with my Louisa— — has repeated my oath, and she wsill be Saithful to it.
After this avowal, which Separates her for ever from you, it is necessary to make you one still more painful.
My daughter has not the Sentiments which, you suppose her to have; Riches are useless to her happiness; and it is for that reason that I return to you your’s. If it could have fulsilled your intentions I should have kept them, because I had promised it.
It is true she loves, but it is you yourself who have surprised her heart, to her misfortune and mine. A cruel Sacrifice is necessary to all of us. You must ' fly these places; leave her and me; and let her for ever remain ignorant of her
G 6 triumph.
()
triumph. I shall console her. The mutual confident of your Secrets and your griefs, I shall feel your pains; and the most cruel of mine will be to
have a Secret from my louisa.
/ •
I forbid you all objections j they
«
will be in vain; if you love me, if you love louisa; forget her: It is her father who intreats you to it.’*
** Me forget her!” Said Seville, with a gesture of fury. Forget louisa! No : do not believe it.
« Montane, I shall obey you. Tomorrow
I leave this country, and you; my country which I ever loved, but
which I now hate. I shall never See louisa, but to Sorget her! you can neither constrain nor exact it from me.
** Powers eternal! it is then me that she loves; and it is this unfortunate rank
which Separates me from her for ever.
“There
a(
( 1
^ There were yet new griefs in store for me! I have felt them, and I no longer fear the strokes of fortune : she has Spent all her store.
“Montane, pardon my despair. I See
your Softened eyes pity me; and, never
J
thelefs, there is no hope for Seville. You allege your oath to me, the crime of those of my birth, * because twenty millions of Frenchmen of your rank, breathe nothing but blood, is your heart less pure, less humane? Will my
•J
despair restore your Son to you? or do you desire this frightful vengeance.”
No; ” replied the old man with mildness: But I have promised, and remember, it was to the bleeding shade of my Son.”
« You recall me to my duty; to be Silent and Suffer, ” Said Seville, and from
this
*
•k
<
r' -- *
C 134)
this moment complaint died away in his mouth.”
Montane, too much oppressed to Support longer the accents of his despair, left our young Frenchman alone, to reflect; on the cruel caprice of his fate. — Henrietta came to interrupt these reflections.
louisa enjoyed the Sleep of fatigue, and her friend respecting her repose, made use of it to rejoin her brother, whom she had not seen for many hours.
« goj nay sister, ” said Seville to her, with a cold and dry tone, as soon as he Saw her. “The dawn no longer
O
Sees us in Aranvilie: Thank thy benefactor; it is all we can do for him; he is above our favours.”
“I know it, my brother, ” answered Henrietta; but are you not afraid to
quit
}'
1
f ^35)
quit these places? You told me, even yesterday, that you never were So happy as among these good people. And I may ash how shall I quit louisa? Without doubt gratitude attaches me to this
amiable person; but a Sentiment still more dear, and of which I can give no account, makes me dread the moment which is to Separate me from this Sweet friend.
Thou knowest it, faded by misfortune, my heart opened itself with difficulty to friendship : Here it has bestowed itself entirely, and my happi
f
ness would be complete, if I could carry her with me to be henceforward my companion. I had even proposed it to her. Sobs, a civil refusal, her tenderness for her father, whom she could not quit, was her answer.
y I own it to you, I trusted more
to
L
( 136)
to your care. I expected to have found that you loved her; and I flattered myself that, despising vain prejudices, like me, you could have been happy with her, and have forgot our misfortunes.
Did I deceive myself?? whence comes this change ?”
Thou didst not deceive thyself; ’* replied her brother; and I stiall never change: I adore her, but I cannot be happy. Ask me nothing farther, and spare the grief of thy brother.”
Henrietta felt her eyelids wet; a
«
tear escaped her: She was silent; but it was the silence of timidity and of
grief.
Never was evening more than that of this day. Every one devoured his grief; they all shunned one another, and the most tender Sentiments were marked by the deceitful exterior
of
0 »
C 137)
4
of infensibility and coldness. It was by this means that they tried to persuade each other they had conquered themselves.
t
Henrietta alone Sought to banish her habitual grief, to calm that of her friends. Sometimes fly Sought to renew hope in the heart of her brother;
Sometimes her caresses would have revived
\
joy in that of louisa, or to quiet old Montane.
The night came at last, this terrible night, which was to decide the liberty of Henrietta and Of Seville.
Their measures appeared well taken, all had been considered beforehand, and seemed to announce a certain fuccessj but was it not also possible that the following dawn might only difeover their mangled remains?
Have we not Seen since then the best
. of
f
( Isis)
of Sovereigns, a fugitive in his own dominions, in the midst of his Subjects, the perpetual objects of his Solicitude and affection, stopped by them, loaded with outrage, beholding the threatening poniard turned to his heart; and at length, in defiance both of law and jus ticc, executed with all the ignominy of the vilest malefactor, and that by those very men whose welfare had been the principal study of his whole life.
And thou, courageous Dampierre, to the life of a Sage thou hast added the death of a hero. Thou wast slain in the view of thy King, because thou
hadst not the base ferocity to insult his misfortune. Thy Sovereign wept thy death; parcion the friend of thy fon, if he ventures also to throw one flower upon thy tomb.
Montane concealed these frightful apprehensions,
1
( 139)
prehensions under a Serene countenance; a more painful effort than that even of braving the danger wshich threatened them.
Louisa, loaded still with her fever, only thought on Seville, and on the moment which was going to Separate them ‘for ever.
Seville, in a deep despair, implored death in Secret j and when he turned his reflections on the dangers he was going to encounter, a bitter joy was painted in his face.
Some one enters; — it was Pedrera; — it was midnight, the hour which had been fixed on for their departure. louisa, Henrietta, Montane himself, feel a chilling coldness Slide in their veins; Seville and Pedrera alone remain firm and tranquil..
Pedrera looks at them a moment in
silence;
( 140)
silence; he sighs; and addreshng Seville, Take this steel, ” said he to him, behold my pocketbook, in case of need it will witness for you. I give you. my name, and I shall take your’s. Go, tomorrow I shall see you at venasques.”
Perhaps, ” Said Seville, But no matter — give it at any rate: if I do not return thy Sword thou wilt find it in the blood of him who shall have stopped me. Adieu, louisa, forget Seville,
%
he will never forget you.”
Then, extinguifliing the Sole lamp which gave light to the apartment, he guides their steps out of the cottage. Pedrera is at his side, as he wished to accompany them as far as his farm. Henrietta and the old Montane followed them trembling. The moon was hid beneath the clouds, and a few straggling
( HI)
I
gling stars afforded a weak and uncertain light.
Seville and Pedrera had hardly passed the threshold of the door; their dazzled eyes could not as yet difeern any object, when, all of a sudden, they feel themselves Seized by nervous arms, which hold and take their weapons from them. — They were in no condition to make any defence, which would, indeed, have been in vain. The Sword quivers over their heads, and a thousand Surious voices resound behind them.
Old Montane drags Henrietta, totter] ] to his daughter, and comes back on the Spot, to present himself to the strokes, ready to fall on Sevslie. The moon begins to rise from behind the cloud which covers it, and offers the sight, so many times repeated, of the rage and thirst of blood.
It
m
( 142)
t *
It was the troop from St. Licer, guided by Bellifert; it was this monster, who had meditated and conducted vengeance. His spies had informed him of the abode of the two strangers at montane’s, and bellesert had painted them to the band, as the chiess of a counter revolution, which Spain seconded, and of which Pedrera and Montane were themselves the guilty accomplices.
Inflamed by these discourses, commanded by a chief from Paris newly arrived among them, under the orders of whom even bellesert found himself; they were come in the night to Surprise the unfortunate Seville.
bellesert, himself, with two of his men, had laid hold of de Valledeuil, whilst Pedrera was in like manner trodden under foot by these robbers.
Cries of death were heard on all sides;
This
( 143)
This was vrhat Bellefert wished for; he looked on the quickest vengeance as the most sure; and he had a strong interest to prevent his victims from being able
to wash themselves from the crimes of
%
which he had accused them.
Seville, clothed in the habit of the Spaniard, cried out, It is I you must kill; I alone. I am a Frenchman : he is a stranger.
Pedrera, not less generous, implored death, and demanded that Seville should be Spared.
Montane, in the midst of them, raised a voice, which could not be heard, and the Same Sat Seemed reserved for him.
bellesert thought he had already killed Seville; but his Sword, misplaced in the confusion, had only wounded him Slightly. One of those who were at his side perceived it; he wanted to have theatro
f
cious
( 144)
cious advantage of bearing Surer strokes j but, repulsed by those who Surrounded
him, in the moment of striking, his weapon chooses another victim; he thinks he has struck Seville, and it is Bellefert
who vomits his blood and his perfidious soul.
Their chief, milder and more humane than they were, had ordered the victims to be Spared, that they might be judged. His orders had been violated by Bellefert, who existed no longer.
The chief believes still it was Seville who has perished; he orders them once more to cease from slaughter, and Iprings
to the side of Pedrera in order to Save him.
They listen at last to his voice; a moment’s calm ensues, in which they very soon recognise bellesert extended lifeless. They throng round, and endeavour to
help
( >45)
help him, during which time the chief
^ \
remains alone with Pedrera and Montane. He was struck with the firm and tranquil air of the one, and the old age of the other.
** Old man, ” said he to Montane " resume your senses, and fear nothing, if you are innocent: if you are guilty you owe your blood to your country, wshich you have betrayed.’*
« Young man, ’* replied Montane, if the country wants to glut itself with the blood of its citizens, lam guilty: I thought to spare her a crime, in Saving one of her virtuous citizens. Strike! Why waitest thou? I have only a few days of life left, and of what value is this Small part of my existence? — I have but one daughter left: thou wilt find her expiring, and thy ferocity will have little trouble in putting an end to her.”
H ic Old
C 146 }
Old man, ” replied the chief, you are unjust towards me : — May you have no other crimes to answer for! Do not confound me with monsters; I serve my country, but I do not degrade her. Come, re affure your daughter.”
Then, turning towards his men, I answer for this old man, ” said he, and perhaps I have Spared you the commission of a crime.”
Louisa, come to her Senses, after a long fainting fit, darted out of the cottage. Her father was in danger; she came to offer herself to death for him : O my father, I See you again 1” And, throwing herself in his arms, she hung round the old man, who, weakened, let fall some tears, and groaned out the name of his dear louisa.
The chief observed them in silence:
He even appeared Softened i but, arming
himself,
■ ( 147)
himself with courage, he quits them, advances towards his troop, calls them together, and commands silence.
Frenchmen, ” said he to them, ” we have been led hither by accounts of warriors and plots. What have we found! An old man, a young Spaniard, terrifiec women. Are these exploits worthy o; us? Is this the motive which brings us hither } Let us no longer difgracj our country by useless atrocities, or b imaginary fears. One of your leader; has lost his life already for having listenec to his credulity, and for having difobeyec my orders. Shall we augment the list o our crimes or our misfortunes No; return to St. Licer, and carry off the body of Bellefert. Calm the people’s minds, You, Montbriffon, Auviland, and Gai i dex, stay with me. You are sufficient to guard an old man, and a young girl. A;
H 2 soon(
()
as day shall begin to appear, I will follow you, and we shall lead off the guilty, if there are any here.”
The battalion, confused, immediately obeyed the orders of their leader j and for the first time they gave an example, sh little followed since then. The country’s guards listened to the voice of Subordination.
Meanwhile Pedrera and Seville, had rather been stunned by the robbers than dangerously wounded. surprised without arms, they had been Surious; but it was
at not being in a situation to Sell their lives dearly.
To the insults with which they were overwhelmed, they had only opposed the sirmnefs of a courageous shul, which stands the torrent that outrages it, and knows how to Suffer without complaint.
Under favour of the confusion, of the
noise
/
( 149)
noise, and of the darkness, they had confounded Pedrera with the old man; and Seville being clothed like a Spaniard, they believed that effectively there was no
Frenchman of any distincffion in the house
• *
of Montane.
The commpder of St. Licer, had perceived this error of his men, and had profited by it, in order to engage them to retire.
That all suspicion might be removed, he had kept three of them, of vrhom he was sure. Seville and Pedrera were no longer
o
guarded but by these last; the troop was too far removed to be heard, and the chief
4
had entered the cottage with Montane. — -- There the most profound obscurity
reigned. Louisa had quitted the arms of her father to throw herself into those of Henrietta, and both still awaited death.
H 3 Listen,
( HO)
Listen old man, ” said, at last, the chief of the battalion, “Thou hast not feared death, thou wilt fear to tell a falsehood. Thy Safety, and that of those who Surround thee, depends on thy sincerity. I have not a moment to lose; an 0
fwer me with truth: Whither wert thou going when I stopped thee ?”
“To venasques, ” replied Montane; I wanted to conduct this young Frenchman and his sister, who are here, thither, in order to Save them from your hands.”
“Are they cf the number of those who
#
arc guilty ?”
‘‘ I dare ansvver that they are innocent.’’ And this young Spaniard ?”
“He vranted to assist us; it was to his. estate we were to go.”
“This is Suffleienr, old man S’ Said the chief; “I believe thee; Obey me in silence, and let nobody hesitate to execute my orders.” Then,
( >5‘)
Then, going out of the cottage, the chief Speaks to the three guards who waited there; and very Soon the two first vault on their horses, and ride off with all Speed. Garidex remains alone with Seville and Pedrera. — Young Frenchman, ” said the chief to the fiiss, Take thy sister, and fly with this man, (showing Garidex) he
will conduct your steps by the past, of Aure. Fear nothing, cither for yourselves, or for those vho remain with me. — And you. Signor, follow them; this evening we will rejoin you at your country housh, ncarvenafques : but, I repeat it to you, no answer: Go; and let not the sound of your voice be heard.
Garidex makes Henrietta mount his horse, Pedrera and Seville are by her side, and all four take the road which conducts to the pafs of Aure. At the same time the chief of the battalion ordered Montane
H 4 and
C 152)
and his daughter to follow him; their steps directing themselves to the left, led them to Venafquct,
They are all ignorant of the motives
which influence the chief who presided
%
over their flight j but his words had reanimated their hopes; they did not take
him for their enemy, but for their assistant and their protector.
“Louisa, trembling. Supported herself with difficulty; she had, nevertheless, resused to mount the horse of the commandant, and this last had rather chosen to let him run at random at Aranvilie, than to make use of him himself.
Montane reflected on his destiny, he Saw himself obliged, at the end of his days, to quit his hut, to fly into a strange country,
, where, without doubt, want and contempt awaited him, and that without his heart being able to make him the slightest reproach on his conduct. The
V
( 153 i
The chief himfelsi breaking silence, addressed some consolatory words to the old
J '
man, and sustained the tottering steps of
s
louisa. After three hours of the miost painful march they arrive at last at the bridge oftorro where a threatening guard stopped all strangers.
This is the defile of the mountains, and at a little distance, is the territory of Arragon. The chief of St. Licer advanced to the sentinel, who stops them j and very Soon Surrounded by the whole detachment, which watches the pafs, he names' himseff, and makes himself known to them; they receive him with respect, and very Soon all three pass without difficulty.
It was five o’clock in the morning, day began to dawn and the bridge of Torro to disappear behind them; but their strength was exhausted. They See at last the column which bounds the frontier of Arrah
5 gone:
( 154)
gone: This view re animates their courage, lo' ifa makes a last effort; Montane follows her; they cross the barrier; their weary feet refuse to carry them any further, fatigue, obl'ges them to take a repose, which was indifpensible for them; but the ground they tread on is Spanish ground. They are in Safety, they are free, and henceforward they can look on the distresses of their country like a sailor, who, from the top of a rock, sees the ship he has quitted beaten by the tempest, and which the sea is on the point of Swallowing for ever.
The chief, who conducts them, can no longer resist the voice of nature j he falls into the arms of old Montane, and the sweet name of father comes to endear to this old man the sorrows with which this night had overwhelmed him; and louisa recognises a brother in her deliverer.
( u5)
liverer, and the sweet pressures of friend ship make them very soon forget the outrages they had received from men.
Tears of joy succeed to the oppression of despair. Old Montane presses his fon to his heart. Louisa blessed Heaven, which restores her brother to her; ner. dear Adrien, he whose death she wept every day. ' The young Montane goes from the one to the other. In the intoxication of his joy, his caresses divided, knows not which to address; he wants, in
I
the same moment, to bestow them on his
* M •
father and on his sister. Ah !” said he to them at last, what violence have I not been forced to use with my heart to hinder myself from sooner enjoying the happiness of throwing myself in your arms! You recollect, my father, from the moment that I approached you, an inward voice called to me to respect you:
H 6 louisa
N
( 156)
Louisa came, you named her; I recognised my father and Sister in the midst of
%
the robbers whom I brought to devour you. Happily I could command myself, danger gave me new strength, and I hid my tenderness under .the exterior of ferocity. If I had named you, we had ■ been lost; you and myself would have been killed; and they would now have made horrid trophies of our bleeding heads. I appeased these tigers by feign.. to despise you, and accomplished their difmission.
\
An invented commishon rid me equally of Auvillard and Montbriffon, whom prudence had dictated me to keep. Garidex is my faithful friend; he will conduct your’s in Security; but it was necessary that we should be dividedj to the end that our number might not cause suspicion.’* louisa, transported with joy, embraced
her
9
{ 157)
her brother anew, * she owed him more than life, he had Saved her dear Seville. They no longer felt their sorrows, their
V
fatigues, nor their hunger; old Montane and louisa overwhelmed Adrien with questions; but very Soon this last, helping, them to rise, exhorted them to continue their road. Henceforward, reunited to you, ” said the young Montane, " I can Satisfy all your questions; but wt are as. yet at too Small a distance from the frontiers : in a few hours our flight will be
dishovered, and a cloud ot madmen will pursue us.’*
Saying these words he took louisa and his father under the arm, and those roads,. So long painful, were no longer So to them. The vale of venasqu^ presents itself at last to their eyes; they difeover the glittering Spires of the town, and an officious Spaniard, to whom they address them
4 Selves,
( 15* 3
selves, conduas them to the country house of Pedrera, where they announce themselves as his friends, who came thete to wait for him. The domestics of Pedrera conduct them into a Superb apartment, where they contend who should
Serve them.
They expected with impatience their friends, conducted by Garidex : and louisa sighed often in thinking on the dan gets which they still encountered. As the road which the young Montane had prescribed for them, was considerably longer, it was hardly possible to see them before Some time had elapsed. To abridge these minutes, which fear prolonged, old Montane recalled to his Son, that they expected from him the story of those many years, during which, at a distance from him, they had believed him dead.
‘vct will obey my father, ” said Adrien,
“but
( 159)
but I shall be concise. Why should I trouble, by bitter recollections, the happiness I feel in being with you ?”
You remember the time in which they honoured my courage, by giving me one of those places only destined for those who reckon courtiers in their ancestry. — You know that I was a Captain, and that my Colonel conducted me with him to the capital, where I was presented everywhere, as if the vain title of nobility belonged to me. You even know that I had the misfortune to love; and, above all, to be beloved. Although intoxicated with these vain hopes, wshich flatter youth, I was Sensible it was not for me to aspire to one of the first matches in the kingdom.
"She whom I loved, and of whom, doubtless,! no longer adore, Save the spirit, was charming, of an illustrious family;
and
f io)
*
and her soul great, noble, and above prejudice, was worth a thousand times more all the advantages of fortune united, which she possessed., I endeavoured to stifle my inclination, and did not Succeed J I wished to remain silent; my mis tress divined my heart, and forced me to explain myself. She detested greatness, and loved me alone. A thousand times she proposed to me to carry her off j I au ways refused, and was in the wrong. — The idea of committing a criminal action prevented me. It would have been lawful and virtuous, since it would have saved her: This idea then ought not to
have prevented me.
“They proposed another to her, and wanted to force her to accept: She declared to me she would have preferred death, if I would not Save her. I know her; she would have done it as easily as
she
f
w
r
C ■ ii)
she threatened me with it. Decided at last to take her off, we agreed on the day and the means. Oh! my father, I feared to afflict you! I feared your prohibition! Pardon me, therefore, if I did not inform you.
** We were discovered. I was arrested in the capital as you was this night in your hut that is to say, without the means of death or defence. By the means ^ of a lettre de catchet I was conducted Secretly but closely guarded across France.
I ashed with entreaty the liberty of informing you of my fate. The brother of
my mistress, a Savage, Sole cause of my misfortunes, refused me this favour, he announced to me that I was dead for you, as well as for the rest of the universe, and that you should not be ignorant of it,
“At the sea shore, on the coast of brit tanny, there rises, at a little distance from
the
()
the land, a naked and frightsul rock. A tower, siill more Srightful, has been constructed there, to bury those who have ^ committed the crime of displeastng the great: and it is there I was shut. During the Space of two years I neither Saw heaven nor earth; an eternal night reigned in my dungeon. I thought here on you, my Sather, on louisa, and on my rriis tress; and the most cruel of my Sorrows Was the idea of the grief which my loss
must occaston you.
►
« One day 1 heard cries of rejoicing, which pierced across the thickness of the tower; and till then I had only heard the groans of despair. Attentive to Sounds So new', I listen; they are repeated; my dungeon opens, and they announce liberty to me, telling me that all France enjoys it as I do. I dart out, and prostrate
myseif besore the fun, which comes once
more
( i63)
more to give light to my eyes; We were fifteen victims, delivered from the horrors of slavery. A bark awaits us, and conducts us Speedily to the shore.
“Shall I go to console my father, and my Louisa” ” I to myself, when 1 landed; or shall I go to see if my mistress
still lives? But my father, in his
•*
hut, has nothing to fear; and fly 1 love, is, perhaps, a prey to despair, or captivity. Perhaps Lean deliver her.
1 was decided and flew to Paris. -- -- -
A new order of things presents itself everywhere to my view; but I only beheld my mistress, and thought of her alone. I inform myself; I search; but in vain. She had not been married; and he that they would have compelled her to accept, is, as well as the brother who occasioned my detention, in the number of the nobles who are massacred.
I search(
()
I Search all the neighbourhood, the convents which had been Suppressed, and do not find the object of my Search. Furious, I break loose against the great, wfio had persecuted me, and I become, in my turn, their most artsent perlecutor. They distinguished my fury, which they named love of the country, and my vengeance was called civism
** me chief of a numerous detachment of militia; but, very soon recalled to honour, I saw that, under the name of love of the country, they concealed the desire of tearing it to pieces; and that private interest veiled itself under the name of public good. I still led my troops, but it was in order to Save those victims destined to Slaughter.
Fatigued with my want of power to stop their ferocity, I left Paris, but preserved my rank in the provinces, I came
to
\
«
( 165)
£0 Bern, to Arramis j I sought you in all the hamlets, built on the shores of the Vert, and I neither found my father nor louisa; I could not learn even whither you were retired. I continued my re searches, hoping still that all was not lost for me.
** Arrived at St. Licer, they told me the project Sormed against Aranvilie; and they were rejoiced to obtain in me a chief from Paris, to direct their enterprise. Bellefert animated his troops to carnage. I profited by the rank which distin guished me, and of theif offers to command over him, to be able to Save victims J for I Saw, beforehand, that what was in question was one of those vile deceptions with which they terrify and fascinate the eyes of the people, to render them barbarous. My happiness has Surpassed
( i6;)
\
passed my wishes, for I see you again,
O my Sather, and my dear louisa. -- -- -- -- -
They are going to consider me as
perjured and a traitor; but it matters little, my heart is pure. Am I guilty to have Saved a virtuous father!
I shall not return to France. What should I do there? She whom my heart adores exists no longer, without doubt, and henceforward my whole life shall be employed to console you for the troubles that the idea of my death have caused you. — Spain is our resuge; it will be our second country, more tranquil and more. happy, than that which we have abandoned.
“Behold, my father, what have been my Sufferings; they still last, they will last always, and never shall the remembrance of her whom they have torn from me leave my heart, Inform
( i66)
"Inform me also who is this Frenchman, for whom a generous pity has made you expose your lives, and this Spaniard, master of this place? Tell me, before they arrive, by what charm the great of Castille, and of our capital, were found
f
under the roof of my father ?”
^ My Son, ” replied the old man, a little while ago this Spaniard was unknown to us; a festival drew him to Aranvilie, our country pleased him, and from that time he Sometimes came to our hamlets. I was afraid that he loved louisa; louisa, and the noble Sentiments of the Spaniard re affured me. — As to those of France, having attained our valley, in the midst of the dangers which followed them. Seeking to Save themselves, we received them in our cottage; to have refused
them(
()
them an entrance was to have assassinated them, in delivering them up to the power of the robbers.
"De Seville is the name of this young man, alas! too amiable. Thy sister, our dear Louisa, idolises him j and this fatal inclination, created from the moment she Law him, has only gathered new strength from that time.
Do not reproach her; she has struggled, and her painful victory has like to have cost her her life. But, what I can no longer conceal from her is, what she was ignorant of, that he loves her in turn. He offered me to throw his fortune and person at her feet. I have rejected everything: I believed thee the
victim of those of his rank. Thou wert the most powerful motive of my resusal. He will come; thou art alive for my
happiness(
()
happiness; he shall know it. How can I any longer oppose his entreaty, and above all, the heart of thy sister ?”
louisa, agitated like the leaf by the wind of autumn, which is ready to direct it at pleasure, waited trembling the answer of her brother, which was to decide her fate.
Adrien looks at her: he was going to
Speak, when Pedrera entered, conducting Seville and Henrietta. They had happily got over the Pafs of Aure, and the Vale of Gistan. Their first duty was to embrace their deliverers. They fall at the feet of the two montane’s, who raise them in clasping them to their arms. — Henrietta was in those of Louisa already, who was happy to see again her dear Seville.
Henrietta quits Louisa j she desires
I “also
%
)
\
\
also to render homage to gratitude.
Yes, ” replied the shepherdess to her, in conducting her to the two Montanes,
enjoy my happiness, as I enjoy your .deliverance; felicitate my father; behold my brother, his fon, ”
“His Son! Your brother !” cries Henrietta, falling again, half dead with fright in the arms of Louisa ** thought I Saw
the shade of my dear Adrien, Pardon my delirium, and this moment of involuntary terror.”
Adrien hears this voice; he turns found; he recognises Henrietta de Valledeuil, the mistress he adores, she who was Horn from him, her whom he thought he had lost for ever; he precipitates himself at her feet, and his behaviour resembles that of his mistress.
Seville, triumphant, and transported to
find
4
✓
( lys J
find again the friend of hjs sister, the brother of his louisa, pressed the hands of old Montane, those of Louisa were already in his; he recalled to the first his
«
words, and demanded from both the as furance of his happiness.
All hearts were open, mingled; fear, regret, grief, all those evils which make a sport of mankind, have disappeared, and are replaced by joy, the mother and daughter of happiness
/
finds again, in the caresses of
Henrietta, the oblivion of all his Sufferings; he still laments, but it is for not having known his dear Valledeuil sooner. It is true he had not been able to See her, in a dark night devoted to carnage: — The Sound other voice had not made itself be heard, and the name of Seville, of which he was ignorant, had conspired
1 2 to
( 1?2)
to deceive him y but his heart ought to have gueffecf it.
Henrietta stops the reproaches which he makes to himself; already his sadness has disappeared, his colour is re ani mated, stie dares to tell him she loves, sure ot being always adored.
Seville, quicker than lightning, still at the feet of louisa, wants to hear repeated a thousand times that lie is beloved; and his tongue is not enough so express his happiness.
The old Montane sees his children happy. Yesterday be had only one expiring daughter; today he has four children, who all cherith him. His heart opens anew to pleasure, and he is happy at the happiness which Surrounds him.
Pedrera himself, the generous Pedrera, ’
imposes(
()
imposes silence on his heart; he will be at least the friend of Louisa, and of the fortunate Seville; his great Soul is Satisfied with this, and he partakes the universal joy.
Night comes to Surprise them in the midst of these transports;; how different from the preceding one! Nothing now prevented their wishes, nothing could trouble their felicity. The next morning was the dawn of a fine day which was to Sliine on the rest of their lives.
The immense fortune of Seville, and of Henrietta, might make them live in abundance 5 and Pedrera offered still to share his with them, but they only accepted his friend ship.
Not stir from Sanagoffaon t he banks of the Ebro, there lies an ancient castle,
more
( w4)
more remarkable by the beauty of the ground and country belonging to it, than the elegance of the building. Seville purchased it; and it is here that
our four lovers, after having united for life, have established themselves with old
Montane, in order to live unknown. — * Every day since then has seen their love and their happiness increase.
The Revolutions of their former country comes yet often to retrace itself to their thoughts. In learning the cruel
fit
captivity of their King, and that citizens
had
* The 14th of July, 1791, two refpestable citizens were slain on the Altar of Federation, because they opposed an act of profeription, which a mad populace signed against the King. The National Assembly, and the Municipality, tried in vain to put a flop to these horrors, which ought to be imputed to a populace paid and deceived.
Note of the Author.
0
i
S 175)
had been Sacrificed on the Altar of Federation, to celebrate its anniversary, their heart bled, and their tears have again flowed for this fine kingdom. They desire that peace and innocence may once more revive in it; and if this wish, the only one they have left to form, is one day fulfilled, they will return to the heart of France, to present there the Sweet per ipeiflive of their happiness.
FINIS.
