RARE BOOK COLLECTION
LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY: ^
pennsylwvnia
(;
THE
180«.,
HISTORY 
t
O F
i
I •
MISS SOMMERVILE.
'Written by ^ Lady.
*
'* * t
• ■ s
IN TWO V O L U M E
VOL. laz
f f' '
... i i ibm ■■■■■■ II n
%
t '
DUBLIN;
Printed by D. Chamberlaine, W. sleatorj J. Potts, J. Williams, and C Ingham.
M, DCC, LXIX
i
, s
7 '
■ *
Am
# 00
SOUTHWEST! sss^ W
=ic6s(i^ W southwest W w ?W
THE
HISTORY
O F
MISS SOMMERVILE.
I
I <^<^<^<^c5j^x$oc^c^c^i: ^§c^c^o^c^jo^
! L E T T E R I.
I
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
Holyhead, Thurjday, l. 20._
, -^••, oo»."s"h[e perv#‘, rre. lu^urt <>«r ot the winds still.. I T I continues; and it is to very little pur •s .ooo....^. pose that your brother and I have exposed ourselves to ninety miles rough travelling, over mountains no less dreary than tremendous,
* and valleys devoid of every pleasing vestige of ' fertility.
But you tell me, this is not the feason for gay scenes; and, that even St. james’s Park is stripp’d of its loveliness, and wears a dismal winterly as 1 pet. — Judiciousty observed. But, my good I Harry, you, who retain poffestlon of very many i blestings, by no means inferior to the beauties of ’ the spring, cannot be infensible of the cruel difi I parity of oui present circumstances.
S' The playhouses are open for your reception, l* where you may abundantly please both the eye
"vol. I. B and
r
2   op
and the ear; you are within .the reach of elegant and entertaining converse; and not excluded the circles of friendship; nor unhappily banished the Smiles of the fair. You are not confined to the narrow precincts of an ill contrived inn; can vary your profpefis at will; nor is your sight ioffend edj or sleep interrupted, by the boisterous element that is so perpetually breaking in upon us.
This impatient headed youth! — But he shall not find me so complying for she future. At Parkgate we had a few rational companions; — ■ but here, not even the consolation of one fellow fufferer to cheer our drooping spirits— — an evening have we pasted! You would compastlo nate me, 'were I capable of describing it — But I hear the rattle of carriages. — Reviving sound! It must be dreadful company indeed that would not, at this period, be acceptable — I will endeavour to steal a view of them as they alight.
On my wort), Rdf! d ppearance! -- -- -- One
two, -- -- male beings; -- a female, - — young
and handsome, by Jupiter! — another, past her
meridian! fear; but no matter : -- what are
externals, hey, philosopher?? — cultivated mind is not incompatible with an unengaging form; and time, that hardhearted spoiler of blooming graces, lends a willing hand to improve intellectual ones.
To the .elderly lady I will, therefore, attach myself, and Bob is best qualified to amuse the green in years. His want of fire may perhaps, be tolerated by Some gentle Sentimental female, just emerging into life, and as yet a jlranger to; quadrille and man; but will ever prove an impediment to more lively, more intelligent connexions.
It :

It must be my bussnefs to introduce both him and myself to these strangers; for Such is his indolence, or shynefs of difposttion, that he would mope, for ever in retirement, rather than shove himself, notwithstanding the traveller’s privilege, into any company, without previous parade or invitation.
What is genuine politeness, innate benevolence, or even an extravagant share of literary knowledge, when compared with effrontery, finesse, and vivacity? What, I say, but pretty lumpy possessions. Secretly despised by the ladies, and openly ridiculed by the gentlemen of this brilliant age?
Friday noon.
I believe you are not personally acquainted with the earl of Kennington. His whimsical character, however, is by no means unknown to you; affe6tedly wise, and foppishly fantastical. — Would fate hadtiiwi un ftmtc tither shores! — buc his daughter, niece, and beloved companion, may, perhaps, compensate his absurdity.
I had not an opportunity of Saluting them last night; but as his lordship is an early riser (and you know my custom), we were upon the most friendly terms imaginable before the breakfast hour arrived.
I would have retired when the ladles entered, but his lordship prevented me.
'We must unite, we must unite, (cried he
with a twirl of his hand) for our common ‘‘ emolument. Relations are the most insipid“ “in nature. The girls will thank “me for procuring them gallants, and I can only “lament that you have not a Sister to present“ “in turn. — But your friend, let him be prob
2 “duced;
4-
« duced; we will never separate more on this fide the water.”
Bob was far from being delighted witn sti& lordship’s proposal: You are an odd fellow,
(Said he peevishly to me) and never happy but when forming connedlions that are disagreeable
to me. Your Parkgate friends -- -- -”
Were very decent people, Bob, tho’ not exa£uy Suited to your taste: — but be not dissatisfied; for i promise you, if, upon trial, you disapprove of what I have now done, 1 ** will never more attempt to constrain your inclination.”
Down we went.
Abundance of lively things were circulated at breakfast; but I will give you the figures previous to the conversation..
Lord Kennington is somewhat turned of threescore, though the gaiety of his dress, and a pretty youthfulnel® in his behaviours are calculated to convey a very different opinion. His person and understanding, in their natural state, I apprehend to be far from despicable, however justly his vanity may come under that denomination. — But you will see him best in his own light; his language is pi6turefque, and occasionally introduced, will paint him to your imagination in stronger colours than the most minute defeription.
Mr. Shiigburgh is a distant relation of his lordship’s, and his constant companion. 1 he early part of his life was Spent at Sea. He has much more good nature than refinement; enters into his friend’s jest and his own with equal heartiness; and so happily blends the roughness and benevolence of his difposition, that you are at a loss to determine which is most valuable.
Lady
Miss SOMMER VILE. 7
^ ing) because he loved her. — He i dead how ever; and she is returned upon her relations “hands, without any prospect - the good chance my want of a fon gave her “of being my ladyship. — The girl I keep out << charity, and should not doubt of diipostng “of her to advantage, if she would please to “brighten up a littlo: she is not a bad figure, “Mr. Bradshaw, but wants animation.”
Pretty creature, how I pity her! Slight indeed, must besher dependance on such a shuttlecock. Lady Sarah is cruelly Supercilious towards her in her behaviour, from reasons too obvious; but it requires Some degree of understanding, as well as goodness of heart; to behold Superior
excellence with complacence.
We are to have a ccncert this evening. A
flute, the property of my lord’s postillion,
N ji^'tpaion with Lady sarah’s be
round; r w, - ... indeed,, would gopd
be produced‘oul: of evib Nor dught we, Harry,
to be too much difcompolbd by perverse incidents
in general; as untoward beginnings frequently.
precede happy terminations. ^
If the infirmity of your brother’s constitution
had not induced the gentlemen of the faculty to recommend his native air; — if we had not been wind bound a whole week at Parkgate if the company we were there cast in had not proved disagreeable to Bobby, and incited him to drag me, most relu6lantly, to this ungain Spot j — or if the packet could have sailed immediately upon our arrivalhad any one of these ifs failed, or taken place improperly, this miracle of her sex had, in all probability, escaped us. But in short, I never was a conjurer respecting futurity, or I should have improved many incidents, and guarded against many mifadventures, that have

duced; we will never separate more on this fide the water.” ''' ‘ /
■ Bob was far from being delighted witn Ms lordship’s proposal“ “are an odd fellow, (said he peevishly to me) and never happy but when Sorming connexions that are disagreeable
to me. Your Parkgate friends -- -- -- -- ”
Were very decent people, Bob, tho’ not exaxly Suited to your taste : — but be not dissatisfied; for I promise you, if; upon trial, you disapprove of what I have now done, I ** will never more attempt to constrain your in clination.”
Down we went.
Abundance of lively things were circulated at breakfast; but I will give you the figures previous to the conversation..
Lord Kennington is somewhat turned of three
^ the gaiety of his dress, and ac
'■‘steps, oufjrnincl£> aict^ _ -- ''calf'
be in ourselves, we may pafs our time very
tolerably., < ' d -
My Lord is the life of the company: I, you must know, take the lead cf your brother in his good graces. .Old heads upon young shoulders, lie confessed to me in a stiort tete a tete^ is his aversion.
-- - “Youth (cried he) is the season for
gaiety; and whatever is unnatural must be « difpleasing.”, Poor gentleman 1 how little acquainted is he with himself!
There is that fool, my niece Sally, for example (continued he); she is fcaicely eighteen, yet must be captivated with sentiment; prefer ring the care struck brow of meditation to all the bewitching graces of vivacity. But her father was the very quintessence of absurdity «« refused a mitre rather than abandon his flock; and married a' woman without a shill“
“
/ • '
Miss S O M M E R V IDE. 7
ing, because he loved her. — He i dead however; and she is returned upon her resttions hands, without any profpe6l:, - notwithstanding ‘‘ the good chance my want of a fon gave her “of being my ladyship. — The girl I keep out “of charity, and should not doubt of diiposing of her to advantage,, if she would please to brighten up a little: she is not a bad figure, Mr. Bradshaw, but wants animation, ”
Pretty creature, how I pity her! Slight indeed, must besher dependance on such a shuttlecock. Lady Sarah is cruelly Supercilious towards her in her behaviour, from reasons too obvious; but it requires Some degree of understanding, as well as goodness of heart, to behold Superior excellence with complacence.
We are to have a cc*ncert this evening. A greasy flute, the property of my lord’s postillion, in conjundiion with Lady sarah’s guitar, is to compose the instrumental part. — The vocal performers are Lady Sarah, Miss Kennington, Mr. Shugburgh, and my Lord. — Yes, Harry, I arn So hardy as to repeat, notwithstanding the arch ridicule that plays about your mouth, that we have twenty little Schemes of amusement in store, of a similar stamp with what I now communicate, as we wisely determine to make the most of life we can; and by our mutual good hu ihour. Supply every mortifying deficiency to which our present Situation exposes us. — Where there is humility and benevolence, there whll be happiness. I pity the heart that from refinement has lost all capacity for delight, no less than I despise it when polished out of its sincerity.
bob’s Spirits are brushed up surprisingly— — bids defiance to the horrors in Miss Kenning
B 4 ton’s
/

*
ton’s presence? and in her absence has not leisure to fall into them; — her idea, — the contemplation of her dear idea finding him constant employment : but will not the remedy prove, at the long run, of worse consequence than the disease??
truth, he is far gone already, though unperceived by himself, in the labyrinth of love the path pleasant, the winding imperceptible; but to return would be the difficulty; nor can I, unexperienced as I am in Such Soft matters, lend him much astistance. — befid^s, it is cruel on many occasions to undeceive us. — Give the child his rattle, and the madman his crown, — I will neither rob the one nor the other; consequently, Harry, your brother’s inclinations (unless most egregiousty erroneous, )- will not be condemned, or opposed, by his and your affectionate
Frank Bradshaw.
i if ^ » ft ^ • ^ * ft • % • ft ft • % » IT ^ S ^
LETTER III
miss Kennington to Miss Carey.
Holyhead Sunday Obt. 23.
A Las, my dear friend, you are greatly deceived in the opinion you entertain of my happiness! It is true, I am not only delivered from every apprehension of pecuniary distress, but advanced to a state of affluence beyond my most flattering expectations.
But have I not many cruel remembrances to Support? — My beloved, my valuable father, is
he

he not lost to me for ever? — My tender, my indulgent mother, — her circumstances have compelled her to forsake me; — and that blessed peace and tranquillity I was wont to enjoy, have stead my breast, never more to return. — Return! oh how impossible! — can peace and tranquillity dwell — ^^ but no matter. — Yet indeed, my dear, a dependant is by no means an eligible condition, especially when aggravated, as mine is, by the caprlcioufnefs and ill nature of my temporary benefactors.
I will not, however, oppress you with complaints., Take a genuine description of my circumstances; and Should you difeover pride and : perverseness. rather than real calamity, to be the Source of my discontent, fet me right, I beseech.. nor be Sparing, of reproof.
I need not, toucst upon the dire particulars of that affliction and distress my mother and I experienced, during the first three Succeeding months after my father’s decease. *-
Confeious of the necessity of casting about for feme means for future provision, and unable to ' determine which would be most salutary, we passed our days and nights in equally unavailing anxiety and‘ lamentation; 5 The Small Sum that remained, by its visible decrease, at lengthy however, roused us to the resolution of trying our : interest with our friends.
My mother’s family were r willing to receive; her as a sharer in their limited fortunes, provided my father’s relations would vouchsafe to bestow Some consideration upon me. How gladly would I have Submitted to the narrowest circumstances, to have avoided a fatal Separation from my only parent! — It is, however past; and I
must be Satisfied i
B < s Application
to   of
Application was immediately made to Lord Kennington, who consented to take me under his protection with a much better grace than was expected • — partingwell, that too is over, and shall be forgotten.
I arrived in the evening at his lordship’s. — How my poor heart beat with painful apprehensions— — Sent in my name. — Humility was no stranger to me in theory, but pradlically I had Seldom had occasion to know it.
Mr. Shugburgh instantly appeared. — He beheld me a few moments in Silence. — His features bespoke the utmost kindness— — “are well“ “(said he), my little friend (with an a“ “warmth), kindly welcome to your new home; and if your appearance has but ‘‘ the same effect upon' his lordship’s heart it has had on mine, you will have no reason to be distatisfied 'vith his reception of you.”
My tears — be must understand their meaning — “He is, my dear, most Angularly hu“ “— And as we entered her ladyship’s dresting room, where the father and daughter were engaged at backgammon, he pressed my hand with compassionate Significance.
Lady Sarah was too attentive to the game, to pay any regard to my entrance. — She had the box in her hand, obtained an advantage of consequence, and begged my Lord, who Snatched up his glass in order to furyey your niiferable friend, to ihind what he was abvut, and not deprive her pf tliq pleasure of conquering him at his own weapons, for a purpose that would keep cool till he was at leisure to pursue it.
Mr. Shugburgh was chagrined. — Be seated "r mufsfaid he, leading me to a chair: “You
and
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. h
and I, you see, must learn to Submit to the “higher powers.”
Happily for me, her ladystilp’s good Success did not forsalce her, and in a short time she came off vidlorious.
Now, Mr. Shugburgh (Said my Lord, rising and advancing towards us), let me make my peace with you, by a proper reception of that present you have prepared for me. — Hah! viewing me through his glass) upon my word,
“it is very prettily contrived; only the polish, the polish, my friend, seems not altogether So high as. one could wish. — Lady Sarah, have you no curiosity respecting your, future corn -- panion
La 1 ray Lord (cried she), you are so hurrying— — cold salute was all she was pleased ** bestow.
“Your name, pretty one?” resumed his lordship— — demand! for before 1 could reply, he' added, as recolledfing hiinfelf, “Oh Sally! — And so, Miss Sally, you have the courage to become an adventurer, under my auspices, to countries yet unknown. — Your little heart ** though, I suppose, is not without its alarms.” Oh Dolly! never was being more oppressed!
'— This cruel levity! — The child of so recently deceased, and so injured a brother,, to be so treated! — I burst into tears, .to the great astonishment, and offence of my noble relations
Lady Sarah! Mr. Shugburgh!” demanded his Lordship with an affected stare of amazement. — “What haveo Said? Is either my ao “centre countenanceto tremendous as to occa sion this ?” ' — But, turning carelessly upon his heel, These arc early days; we shall, perhaps,

1
‘‘ haps, come to a right understanding at Some “future period.”
You may be certain my confuston and distress was rather augmented than diminished by this unkind speech— — my efforts were vain, and agonies, I fear proud agonies, shook my very soul.
Mr. shugburgh’s eyes betrayed the most humane sympathy. How Soothing every shadow of tenderness, to the suffering heart— — Lord and Lady were at l#ngth So considerate as to withdraw.
Mr. Shugburgh, the instant he perceived we were alone, used many pathetic arguments to comfort and confcle me.
“I know not whyitis (said he), but however “rough my nature, or boisterous my education, I am perfectly effeminate upon these pccafi ons. — But, my dear Miss Kennington, do not “Suffer your change of condition to depress you “beyond measure— — from what “hand your chastifements are derivedit is ours to Submit— — may at all times com mand my best Services. — I loved your father; “I cannot, therefore, do other than love and ** pity his defenceless offspring. — My friend has his peculiarities. Lady Sarah her little odd fan cies, but you will not find it difficult to please“ “when once you are acquainted with their dispositions. The misfortune is, that an “unhappy prejudice against your mother, will ‘‘ prevent your establishing yourself fb immediately in their affebtions as you otherwise wouldbut you Seem to have no Small share “of understanding, and will make the best of a “di'agreeable buffnefs.”
Is he not a good creature? — Oh! my friend,
how
Miss SOMMER V I L E. 13
how Superior are the feelings of. humanity to
But I will forbear.
So soon as I was Somewhat oompofed, I begged this worthy man would acquaint my Lord and Lady, that L was impatient to obtain their forgiveness of my folly. — They received my mestage graciously, dbndefcended to say a few obliging things, and tl^^^pper hour passed a -- ' way with tolerable fatisb^^n..
But 1 labour under on^reat mortification. —
I am compelled to participate Lady sarah’s a partment, to which restraint alone my long silence has been owing: for,., notwithstanding all' my endeavours, I could never meet with a proper opportunity of exercising my pen.r — For the necessity I was under till this time,., of making her privy to all I wrote, was exa6uy the same thing as a final prohibition.
We remained only three days in London aff ter my arrival, and are now at Holyhead, waiting; for a wind to convey us to Dublin; and though, our journey afforded no important matter, I believe I shall have it in my power to divert you
from hence. Lady Sarah -- -- -- But I can no
more at present.
Monday Morn..
Behold me once more at your devotion. — But before I begin with her Ladyship as I think myself pretty safe), I will charge you with one important commission.
II beg you will endeavour to see my dear mother as soon as possible, after this reaches you, and tell her how alive I am to every dutiful and affeflionate Sentiment; but that ssnce her circumstances are limited, almost in an equal degree with my time for writing, I will double tax
your
The H I S T O R Y of
your friendship, and make you the channel of:
w, *. ■ •
©ur correspondence.
To you I will remit my every wish and adventure, and she must be fatissted with receiving, them at fecond hand; for I dare believe, that there is no fault 1 could commit, that would be more heinous in the sight of these relations than being detected in duly honouring my mother,, notwithstanding it is a divine and indispensable command. — Entreat her, if poshble, to lose her fenfe of the calamity we have sustained, in the pleasing reflediion, of the glorious advantages it has been produdlive of to that best of husbands and of fathers. — The subject is too tender to be dwelled upon;, therefore,, my good girl, in one word, I beseech you to use your best endeavours to console her; - — and may heaven defend us from repining at its will! — A moment’s recol -- lediion, and I will, resume my pen.
I would have told you, but was interrupted, .., that Lady Sarah is far from being dissatisfied with her present situation— — is fallen in love, my, dear, with a man by no means eligible in my sight; but that you will say is very little to the purpose.
His figure, I must acknowledge, is in his favour; well proportioned; easy and genteel : my objediion lies, against his manners and conversation, as they are, indeed, by much too airy and volatile to please my antiquated taste. Bred in sober retirement, I can but ill reconcile, my fell to. pclite irony, and unmeaning adulation.
Lady Sarah proclaims him unexceptionable t the finest, charmingest fellow she was ever acquainted, with, and the most entertaining; nor is she happy one moment ur.less chattering with, or of, her admired’mr. Bradshaw.
.,. My
Miss S O M M E R V I L E.
My want of vivacity excludes me from the, ' honour of her ladyship’s confidence; but she has a woman every way qualified for So impor -- tant a trust; and I hope she will at length consign me to Some other, apartment, to prevent my proving an impediment to her favourite fubje^ with her favourite companion. '
Mr. Bradshaw has a. friend, for whole ie it: Seems he has undertaken this voyage, the very reverse of himself, who is uncommonly assiduous to oblige and amuse me. His health is in a declining state. An ugly cough, .Dolly, too plainly indicates an approaching consumption.
It is melancholy to behold any one withering in their bloom; but more efpeciaily where there is So great an appearance cf worth, as in this young gentleman. '
Lady Sarah detests him for his stupidity. — How misjudging! how unfeeling! — He is, my dear, only detached from the idle gaieties of a life, that, in all human probability, he cannot long enjoy; confequentlv, has a.turn for the most Serious, the softest refiedtions.
My mind, you are sensible.. aptly calculated to enter into Such sentiments. We naturally retire from the interruption of our gayer friends. — He listens to the tale of my misfortunes with visible attention and Sympathy; — and I, in return, have an ear for — But I had best throw aside my pen until I have shook off the present dejesiion of my heart, and not affedf you unnecessarily.
If I should have an opportunity of sending this letter in the evening, I will not add to the length of if, only to caution you to Secrete that part of it relative to Mr. Fleetwood from mam nia, as you may very easily do, in the manner I
■■have
#
have wrote it. I would not alarm her with groundless fancies; and, perhaps, she might imagine that my affe6tion is in danger, where my compassion alone is concerned.
Adieu! — You are discreet, and will neither expose the mother or. daughter to needless mortification..
LETTER IT.
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood,.
Holyhead., Obi. 29, Hard gales full in our face.
I. Cannot give you an idea of the general fa -- tisfadlion that prevailed in: our. little assembly, the other evening: every one Seemed to com rnumcate, and in the same instant imbibe de? -- light.
The dejedlion of Miss kennington’s counter nance gave place to a thoufand'namelefs graces;. — the vanity of ray lord’s heart abundantly overflowed; Mr. shugburgli’s honest nature warmly participated his friends joy; — Bob was elevated out of himfelflady sarah’s features wore a kind of ambiguous meaning, that might easily be mistaken for pleafure and as to your humble Servant, words are too poor to Speak his feelings.
It must, however, be acknowledged, that we did not attain this Summit of happiness without encountering some difficulties. — Lady sarah’s guitar, when produced, wanted a couple of
strings; —
Miss SOMMER VILE. 17
strings; — trying circumstance! — irremediable evil I — negligent Servants the greatest of calamities 1 — when, beyond our best hopes, the landlord having learned our distress, accommodated us with a small violin,, that had been left in his hands by an itinerant fiddler to Supply Some deficiency of cast), which, by the dexterity of a certain acquaintance of yours, proved a very pretty fucce danum; and Mr. Shugburgh, with much humour, though little judgement,, upon half a dozen glasses rendered himself no inconfiderable auxiliary.
We had congratulated ourselves, however,, but a few moments on our good fortune, before we received a Second alarm. In the same box with her ladystiip’s music books had been deposited a bottle of stuff for taking stains out of mar hogany, purchased only two or three hours before their leaving London; — and oh, to tell! — was broken in the carriage, and had destroyed the choicest eompofitions.
My Lord was infinitely chagrined; not a favourite Song undamaged. — Where the words were perfect the notes were effaced, and vice verfa.~ — some perverse star, he was certain, predominated, and it was in vain to oppose its influence.
Perverse star, quotha f (cried Mr. shug burgh) — pettish wills! — here’s the Beggars ^ it is not planet struck. i’ll warrant you. — Come, Mr. Violin, give us The Modes of the Court.’*^
My lord’s eyes sparkled approbation. We will be content (said he); these unornamented tunes best fuit our lame instruments. We ** will go through with them chara6ler wife. -- I myself will ling Peachum; Sally shall do
justice.
i
justice to Polly; — you Mr. Gaiety (alias ■ “Frank Bradshaw), shall be our Mackheath; —
‘‘ Mr. Shugburgh will enter into the merits of ‘‘ Lockitand if we could but have mustered up a decent Lucy, Lady Sarah should have
dignified Diana Trapes. -- 1 stand rebuked,
(added he, with an affected shrug of his shoulders), your displeasure is just (she grinn’d most horribly upon him); but you have too “much good nature to deny us. your astistance we should be nothing without you.”
I whispered a few pretty things. — Their effe6fc rewarded my pains. — I love to communicate pleafui*e when it may be done so cheaply : — the magic of a well timed compliment is irresistible— — believing souls! they little conceive by what motives we are frequently adluated. — We lively fellows bear all before us, nor has her ladyship’s breast received an unfavourable impres -- fion of your friend’s deservings.
Mr. Shugburgh was very drole in his part, mylord entertaining, and Miss Kennington un ■ fpeakably engaging. Such a voice! Harmony’6 Self! Her features as exprestive as beautiful.
Lady Sarah was all fpiightlinefs, peculiarly just in every malicious or revengeful stroke, and, most feelingly breathed her love of Mackheath. Polly, it was plain, had another object in view but the hero was not exceptions, and all went Smoothly on.
Bobby touched now the violin, and now the flute, judiciousty; his eyes, indeed, would feme times rnistead his attention, but he recovered himself very gracefullyand though the moral of the piece cannot be defended, the satire is admirable; and, everything considered, I do not think tve could shave hit upon any one composition
 9
tion that would so effectually have answered our purpose.
But you are heartily weary of the small talk with which my letters have for Some time been replete; and if wissies could waft us tathe Hibernian shore, we might instantly spread our sails.
And are you sure the evil would then be remedied ?• and trifles are by no means incompatible; nor would folly be aught than folly,, however rich the soil from which it was produced.
But I have news for you, even from this remote corner of the earth, that willin some measure dispel your dissatisfaction.
We were most agreeably surprised this morning. -- -- Yet, by our leave, sir, I shall not resist
the thrifty Spirit that now predominates, but reserve the whqle master for a future epistle.
Goodbye to you; make it as easy as you can .to your curiostty; for, posttively, I will have my humour. — Bye,, Harry. Ha,, ha, ha I
L E T T E R V
The same to the Same.
t
/
08. 30i
Here you have me again, Harry, this 30 th day of O^iober; and probably both my letters may reach you at the same time. — You may, without wichcraft, guess the reason.
What,.
2
What, quite offended? — You had better Set the matter blow off its own way. — Remember how greatly you are in my power. — Your hand — good good — ^ and now for the news.
We were, I told you, most agreeably Surprised the other morning by the arrival of Mr. Finly, who is hurrying to Dublin, with all possible expedition, to attend, his grand father in his lash moments.
Bob was perfectly in raptures. — His beloved ' friend, his quondam schoolfellow, to be restored to him at a period so unpromifingj was prodigious! — and never was there more heartfelt congratulations than they'experienced upon the occasion; intermixed, nevertheless, with due pauses of Sorrow, for having been So long Separated.
I need not inform you, who are so well acquainted with my disposition.. I am neither four nor phlegmatic, yet equally free from your very fine,, your very pathetic fenssbilities.
In fact,, am a kind of laughing philosopher; and unless the matter is highly consequential. Seldom Suffer my countenance to contract a gloom,, or admit Sorrow to steal upon my heart.
I have long Since tasted life, or my vanity deceives me, with tolerable justness; and as I never found a sweet without its allay of bitter, fol am convinced even the most bitter draught has its attempering fweetness. When a Satisfaction un expe^edly reaches me, I do not, like this pair of friends, deny myself the full enjoyment of it, by contemplating or calculating the loss I may have sustained in the intermediate time; for you must know, I much question if they themselves have yet fettled it in their own breasts, whether the misfortune of not having met Sooner, ‘or the felicity
of
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 21
of their present meeting, runs most in the stiper lative.
On the other hand, when I find a mortification inevitable, I instantly fet to work upon it; and it must be of a most singular contexture indeed, if I do not in a great measure transform it. For example:
In the last vifici made at Blackheath, 1 found your conversation peculiarly pleasing— — did I for Some time attend to the ill natured industry of a seemingly friendly monitor, that incessantly whispered me, it was a pleasure I must Soon forego.
Stung to the quick at being So long disregarded, the whisper was fwelledinto adeep hoarse note, and so roughly Saluted my mental ear that I was for a moment utterly overcome by it : — but, re icollefling myself, I immediately subdued this enemy of my peace. “Begone, (cried I) thou worst of fiends; can it be any reason, because a blessing is ssidrng through my fingers, that I should not “taste it most palpably? — Nay, So far from Seeking an allay, ought not my Sense of it from that very circumstance to be infinitely augmented?? — instead of Suggesting the cru el remembrance of approaching evil, would it not have been kind to Sooth me with the glad “hope of re enjoying it at Some future happy period? — I will, however, most effeffually defeat thy little malice, by cherishing So be nign a ray.” I did so; the whole prospect insensibly brightened. The thick gathering fog of discontent gradually disappeared; till at length my imagination, as if by enchantment, presented me a new face of things, and gave my departure the appearance of only the first step towards my return.
You
s2 The H I S T O R Y of
You may laugh,; if you please, at my System of philosophy; but believe me, Harry, it is the most invaluableof Secrets; for with a fingletouchlcaufe even Calamity to Smile. You will not deny but it is the interest of mortality to remove itself to the utmost possible distance from whatever pains it. ~ Our natures have a kind ol double susceptibility, in spite of ourselves: : delightfullest sense of pleasure, and the most acute pang of af flidiion, is equally Spontaneous: — but as we are happily blessed with a rational and distinguishing faculty, we are capable no less of moderating the one, than mitigating the other.
In the most trying exigencies, I grant you this power is Sometimes overborne;; is it not astonishing when we Suffer petty evils to debilitate our minds, and tinge our best enjoyments? I do insist upon it, if freedom of will is ours in, any instance, it cannot fail us here : and am not I myfeif a living proof of the force of custom, and efficacy of resolution, in conquering every peevish, unsocial, and dolorous inclination? — But, if you please, we will return to the good company.
We are greatly multiplied within these three Nays. The gay, the giddy widow Bateman, having Spun out her period of felicity to, the utmost, is impatiently detained on this Side the water. Some bussnefs of the utmost importance to her interest requiring her attendance on the first meeting of the parliament. She has not been So little minded as to guard against misfortune; and, should her delay be productive .of consequences fatal to that interest, can console herself with re ssesting upon pleafu” es she had too much Spirit to forego.
Her Sister, Miss Turner, neither young, beautiful.
 3
tiful, nor engaging, treads the Same idle round; and only
-- -- aflcs the gods to give
The mighty blessing whilst Ihe lives, to live.
1 have no Small reason to apprehend I shall have my hands Sull. Is it not amazing, that in a country where men are So plentisul, and mixed companies So general, that these ladies cannot help making a fellow of your friend’s turn, of Sue T flatteiing consequence to them?
The ’widow, miss Turner, and Lady Sarah, are already within an ace'of pulling caps upon my account. — Obliging creatures! — yet, notwithstanding the glow of gratitude that warms my heart, I would neither, dye for, nor live with, the one or the other of you.
Lady Sarah, indeed, has charms that are almost irresistible. — Forty thousand pounds, my boy, is an important Sum; but if her person was as lovely as it is in reality disgusting, her mind would prove a Sufficient antidote against every favourable imprestion.
What pity is it, that instead of adorning an unamiable outside, which, by the bye, is only lighting up its defecis, that these ladies, whose Sole pleasure is conquest. So totally disregard the culture of their understandings and improvement of their tempers! — good nature can Soften even the mest rugged Set of features; and what heart may not be won by intelledlual accomplishments?
Miss Kennington is So perfedhy unassuming, and So aftlefsly engaging, that she would, obtain. in one instant, thv>ugh her figure was ae little • eligible as her coafin’s, what the labour of yeats '
could
24is   or
could never procure her: — I mean admiration.
Had the hussy been ever So well instructed res pecting the nicety and caprice of male hearts, she could not more judiciously conduct herself; for, by disclaiming all pretenstons to power, she becomes irresistible.
The elegance of her Sentiments, the beautiful propriety of her manners, the softness, the gen tfenefs of her difposition, the soundness, the delicacy of Jier judgement, in preferring the worthy Bob to bis rattling Saucy friend, are charms that could not fail to please, though her eyes were deprived of their lustre, her cheek of its bloom, and her whole countenance of its various striking graces. — Yes, Harry, I constder the preference of your brother to me as the touch stone of her
merit. — Minds seek like minds: — and is there
*}
a chara«ster upon earth more unexceptionable than bob’s? — The woman that betrays an approbation of him, does honour to her own fenst bility; for a light, a fantastical, ah uninformed, or in any wise unworthy bosom must be incapable of receiving a due impression of his value. — ■
In a word, Miss Kennington is the very being a man would choose to unite himself to for life, by promising him permanent felicity: but where the wish extends not beyond the pasting off an idle hour, your Lady Sarahs and your Widows answer the purpose more effeclually; their Spirit and finesse finding you employment, at the same time that their folly and vanity excite your mirth.
Mr. Finly too much resembles your brother in taste and Sentiment to be unmindful of Miss kennington’s worth. — He is, indeed, evidently attached by it, and Bob is as evidently alarmed; his countenance is too honest not to bear testimony to the feelings of his heart.
My.
Miss SOMMERVILE. £5
My Lord, who values himself not a little upon his difce'^tment, drew me aside this morning, and with the dtmost exultation cried, “That jade ‘‘ has done the bussnefs; it is just as I could wish;
Mr. Finly is the most desirable of alliances. — « ‘‘ I little fufpedted her capable of such a conquest, continued he; but youth is a powerful charm, and innocence strangely affects us. — Had she been more degagee, more vivacious, as I long laboured to render her, she had been disregarded by the very man on earth who best merits her esteem. — Slappy incorrigibill ‘‘ ty! I will hence forth leave nature to its own « operations: — nothing can equal it.”
Unfortunately, Bob over heard every Syllable. — He retired in confusion, — most Significantly entreating me, by his eyes, to follow him : I guef icd the busmefs, and prepared myself accordingly.
But how unequal my preparation to the encounter! — The anguish, the distress of his countenance is not to be deferibed.
I am astonished, said I, to find you in this pitiable condition : what can occasion— — ”
“Frank, (replied he, with great earnestness) forbear to trifle with me; my admi ration of Miss Kennington cannot have escaped“ “So accomplished, irresistibly accomplish ‘‘ ed, how natural my conduct!! Mr. Finly “has the advantage of me in every respedt, and vvill rob me of the most valuable of acquisitions, an amiable, gentle, and Sweetly informed heart.”
I would have persuaded him his apprehensions were groundless; but he interrupted me : Do
not attempt to impose upon me (cried he); their good liking is reciprocal; an unusual V OL. I. C constraint
2
constraint has been visible in her behaviour “towards me ever Since his arrival; and as for “his part, he has neither eyes nor ears for any
other object- -- feel myself (continued he,
** in accents that reached my heart) cut down; “I acknowledge his superiority. He Is in every refpeq:, as hislordssiip too justly observed, an
eligible alliance. -- Yet am I not most
Singularly unhappy, to lose, in one and the same instant, the man and woman 1 hold most dear?? — fatality! and have we met ** only for this ?’’
Dear fellow, Saidi) recollefl yourself; you know Mr. finly’s disposition: : must be in capable of wounding his friend’s peace.”
“How happily ignorant you are (returned he) “in affairs of this nature. — If love is an enlar “ger of the heart in Some respects, it must na turally operate very differently, when .resin“ “the beloved object becomes the question There the voice of friendship is heard but faintly; nay too frequently the pleadings even of honour and humanity are totally dif “regarded.”
It were endless to recite all that .pasted. --
I endeavoured, to the utmost of my power, to
brighten him up; -- -- but was so little Satisfied
with my success, and conceived so mean an opinion of your whiners, that I abjure every Soft connexion, and will remain no less unchanged in my condition than Sentiments.
I am, my dear Slarry, your affectionate
t
• Bradshaw.
L E T
Mfss S O M M E R V I L E. 27
"X X'^X••6X"^X&‘
LETTER VI
Mils Kennington to miss Carey.
DID 1 not say I would fiirow aside my pen till my Spirits were somewhat revived? Idle, thoughtless promise!! befitting my present Situation.
Yet I had, indeed, begun to flatter mysels, with what degree of probability must be obvioiuj, that at least my continuance at this place would have proved an agreeable period; she lively complaisance of Mr. Bradfliaw, in conjundion with my lord’s assessed gaiety, sofar amusing Lady Sarah, as to leave her no leisure to interrupt the more rational fatisfa^lions of Mr. Shugburghy Mr. Fleetwood, and your friend.
But our calm delights, however Seemingly Secure, were Suddenly torn from us by the arrival of two ladies by no means strangers to my fine relations, and a gentleman known to them only by same.
Elated at the rencounter, and with hearts replete with giddy vivacity, the former Soon united themfelvesto the laughing party; whilst the latter from an early contradled friendship and similarity of taste with Mr. Fleetwood, made a more Sober, though for me unfortunate elefhon.
You may, perhaps, think it extraordinary, that the additional company of a man, whose figure, address, rank, and Sentiments, entitle him to the most favourable, the most reipe£l full, consideration, should be deemed a calamity
C 2 — — htl
2
-. — but here lies the grievance. — Lord kenning tonne, who Seldom Sees things in their proper light, has been So fatally absurd as to mifconstrue Mr. finly’s affection for his friend, into a growing approbation of me; and with more zeal than propriety or kindness, read me an inftrudiive lecture upon the occasson.
A
No Sooner had a day or two So far farhiliarized us, that Mr. Finly began to treat me with ease and freedom, than his Lordship conceived this notable idea; and frequently incited me by nods and winks, at that time unintelligible, to assume a greater degree of Sprightliness, or, to use his own language, animation.
But in proportion as Mr. finly’s gaiety broke forth, Mr. fleetvyood’s declined.
I was too much prepossessed in his favour to be unmindful of the ohange^ but how impossible for me to Seek an explanation in which 1 had reason to believe myself particularly concerned, Your own delicacy will Sufficiently fuggess.
Agitated and perplexed, 1 knew not how to Support my lord’s too penetrating and curioussy observing eye; judge then of my confusson and apprehensson, when I this mornibg received a command to attend him in his own apartment.
A criminal — I nevertheless appeared besore him.
“I confess, 'Sarah (Said he, in his peculiar manner), you are an astonishing girl. — The innocence, the undesigning turn of your sea tures, throws one to that degree off one’s “guard, that the arrow is lodged before the ar ** is perceived.”
“My Lord !” -- Said the Simpleton.)
Prettily
 9
‘‘ Prettily affected !” exclaimed he— — “is, indeed, a masterstroke— — To, child, “you would persuade me, your hemt is uncon ‘‘ fcious of the mischief your eyes have effected : “but renounce your sex for once, and honestly tell me, if you are not fensible that Mr. Finly *• is become your very great admirer ?’*
Indeed, my Lord” —
“Well, well, — (cried he, interrupting me) “I am not a friend to protestations, and have “no right to confess you; — therefore, my lit“ “coustn, I will Spare your blushes, and only ** inform you huw happy the discovery stis ren“ “me. — Mr. Finly has a noble fortune, “has travelled with every advantage, and can ** fail of success whercfoever he vouchsafes to pay his addresses. — Be. it your care then, as “the first defhanded proof of your grateful at tachment to me, to improve his good liking. Your face has every charm but vivacity to re commend it, and with that addition must fix him irrevocably. — What Speechlefs 1 — motionless! (demanded he) — Mr. finly’s fate is, in one respect. Similar with pygmalion’s; he, ‘‘ indeed, was captivated with a work of his ‘‘ own handsbut a statue is not less a statue (laughing .immoderately) for not being his performance: : — I as vainly endeavour to “warm you into refentiment by my raillery, as he wished to communicate life to the beau teous marble. — However, (continued he, as“ “a less whimsical accent) if you only ‘‘ possess Such a degree of sensibility as to make a proper use of the intimations I have thrown “out, I shall be content. — An affair of this “nature once begun is more than half accom.
C 3 plished
30 The H I S T O R Y or
‘‘ plished — and your abilities maybe relied'on.
So saying, he hurried by me, with a mixture of compassion, contempt and approbation, in his countenance.
Lady sarah’s woman bounced in upon me, before I had recovered my Surprise and mortification. -- - “Upon my word, miss, (laid she
Icmewbat pertly) his Lordship treats you with ** uncommon tenderness I ever heard the conclusion of your conversation, and have reason to know, that if my lady had been under the same circumstances he would not so
readily have excused her fifence. -- But Some
folks may fooiier steal a horse, than others “look over the hedge.”
I apprehended an uncivil stroke, and was glad to find it no worse;; lest her flippancy should provoke me to commit high treason against her lady mistress, as offending her would be most infallibly deemed, I left her abruptly, and rejoined the company.
Should his lordship’s conjeflures have any real foundation, adieu to every profpe61, every shadow of felicity. Yet, Surely, Mr. Finlycan never be guilty of so great an error, as to conceive so uninformed a creature as me could prove
a Suitable companion for him. -- This fantastical
nobleman must be premature in his judgement. Had he entertained an opinion of the same nature refpefling his friend,, the amiable Fleetwood, I should not have been disposed to call his penetration in question. — But to what purpose his approbation? — Pity, oh kindly pity, a misjudging dependent being! -- -- Now am I more than
ever convinced of the cruelty of depriving me of the sanction and protection of a tender mother.
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 31
there, at a period So critical. — Yet of whom can I complain? Dare I depend more on a temporal than an eternal parent— — the mind is Softened, how affliction pours in from every a venue I My father’s death, my mother’s disagreeable situation, my own precarious dependence, were all twisted about my heart, by the itngle pang it experienced on Mr. fleetwood’s account,.
I will, however henceforth fortify myself a gainst such idle weakness.
But tell me, ray dear, for T must be Serious, why is giddy vanity alone incapable of delighting ray imagination? The ladies at this place Set me, a very pretty example.;. Coquetting and reparteeing fills up all their time, nor have I heard one Sentimental fubjeci discussed by the whole party. — May they still pursue their unfa tisfaciory pleasures, whilst I divide all my hours between my distant and present friends.
. Pay proper duty for. me to my mother; but there are many particulars in this letter highly improper for her perusal.'
L am, my Dear,
Most affeclionately your’s,
S, Kennington.
%
r
cv ' LED
/
  OF
cooo 4* codo 4 0000 4 oooo 4 0000 4 cooo cooo 4 0000 4 CL it 4 0000
LETTER VII
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
Holyhead.
WHAT horrible consequences this same passion of love is capable of producing? Instead of that amiable industry, that worthy e mulation, that folate prevailed of excelling each other in acts of kindness only, w’e are become liient. Serious, and reserved.
Bob gives himself for indifposed. — Mr. Sin
ly is declaredly affected on his account. miss
kennington’s eyes tell Soft Sympathising tales. — The fluttering ladies are out of tune : they cease to exist, if unssattered or unnoticed; and, upon my honour, I am sofar unhinged by my appre henstons for your brother, that I cannot feed their vanity as I was wont.
O cruel winds, when will ye relent! — My Lord and I had a kind of unfriendly brush this morning. — ‘‘ Mr. fleetwood’s indifposition (Said he, having given me the time of the day) is a « most unlucky circumstance. — What a change ** has it not already introduced! — The broad contagious mirth that used to revel in every “countenance, is totally fled. I myself have ** born up surprisingly hitherto : but I am mor tal, (added he, with his peculiar twist of his hand) and if once Subdued shall not Suddenly
revive. "
Miss 6 J M M II K V 1 L XL
« revive. — Your hum drums is a most obsti “nate dlforder.”
I own I was piqued at his manner of attacking me, and replied in accents Sufficiently intelligent;
— -- -- “I acknowledge the justice of your Lord
** observation, and it shall not be my “fault if my friend does not absent himself un “till he recovers a capacity for joy. — It is unpar donable to infe£l: such good company.”
Mr. Shugburgh perceiving, by the peer’s flushed cheek, that we weretather at crofs pur
poses, very opportunely interposed
« Silly trick are you two playing?” (demanded he humorousty). — Empty stomachs “are apt to engender steward inclinations. — To breakfast, to breakfast; if you are wife— — you aggravate what is in itself a real ' “misfortune? — A perverse will (no bad observa -** for a Sailor) cannot, nay, indeed, ought
“not, at all times to be tolerated. but would '
“you quarrel with disease, a calamity to which ^ we are all liable? — I hope better things “added he); for he must have a strange nature that could indulge in levity when a fellow-creature, much more a fellow traveller, is in“ “of participating,. This young gen“ “disorder (Said he as a farther proof of his sagacity) may not continue, or wemay have but a few hours to continue, with him; let “us not, therefore, idly forfeit a fortnight’s amity which has yielded us Such abundant de light, unknowing as we are what the^enfuing; “fortnight may produce.”
His Lordship was pleased to receive this Speech very graciousty. — “Well Said', old Sledfast (cried her- -- young Spark here was inclined
C 5 “to'
3
“to be choleric, from my being unseasonably“ “; but you have foetus right, and we “will never err again. — Your hand? (continued he) — May the accommodation be lasting! — “No apologies (I offered a slight excuse for my warmth). We were equally to blame. Let us, therefore, efface remembrances of the “past by future benevolence.”
I bowed, in token of acquiescence, and was shipping upstairs, in order to divert Bob with the scene, when my attention was engaged by a very different Species of altercation that issued from an apartment, the door of which was half open.
I must tell you, (Said Mrs. Barnard our landlady, for her voice is pretty remarkable) that your behaviour is thought very particu “lar by all the ladies in the house— — if you could not as well be Sociable, and dine where other folks dine. — For my part, I love to pick and choose my company as well as the best; but when I know who’s who, I am no flin cher.”
I am sorry my reserve (resumed a Softer and more Judicious accent) gives offence to any “one. — But f have my reaft ns and cannot apprehend it n^ceffary to do violence to my inclination to gratify the curiossty of persons I am entirely in acquainted with. If you re choir any farther amends for extraordinary at tendance, I will gladly Satisfy you. I would not be “troublesome to you, hut on your own terms.” Nay, for that matter, I do not Scruple your pay ((aid ray landlady); but you are ycung, and may want your money hereafter. Store ** is no sore, and a penny Saved is a penny got. — -
“To
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 55
« To be sure, it does look mysterious to shut' “'yourself up, and only sets people watching and “prying; and I know not what construdlions “are already put upon it. Beauty and rags, as the saying is, are always caught at; and lord ken nington’s valet de chamber Swears he will find"' you out, let what will be the consequence“
“(resumed the Sweetly articulated sound) I am very unhappy; but let me hear. no more of it: I will hot be insulted by any one; and whatever insolence the man may be capable .of performing, I doubt not but his. “Lord will have thejustsce to punish; I shall therefore make myself very easy.”
My landlady slapped the door after her iu a kind of pet, and went away muttering.
How natural .it is to be impertinently curious i nor is any rank or condition, elegant breeding or Sentiment, a Security against this little passion. It is true, it operates differently upon different minds, but still retains one and the. same principle; nor does ray lord’s valet experience a stronger desire to discover this stranger, than 1 her voice,, expressions, and Singularity of con dudlj have excited in my breast.’,
I have made all possible, though' distant inquiry concerning her, and find she arrived only a; few days before us. r she. has remained invisible ever Since, except at one unlucky period, that, the distressful condition of a poor Sailor, who wag Seized witsta fainting fisunder hcr window;. drew her from her concealment, in the full face. of all the secondhand gentry. '
Humanity alone engrossed her attention • till she Saw the fellow revive, when recollediing her own Situation, ■ and. perceiving herself. observed
with
I
36 The H I S T O R Y of
with wonder and inquisitiveness, she retired in consusion.
It was in consequence of this accidental exposure of her person, that Mrs. Barnard was employing her rhetoric, in order to gratify her guests with an opportunity of conversing with her, — who were beyond measure felicitous to detedl the Minx, as they civilly styled her.
But she was proof against her eloquence, and by disappointing the wishes, increased the enmity of the whole party.
What a strange unfatisfadlory life she must have led !- Handsome and well-bred my landlady describes her, but accuses her of obstinacy. Her reasons for burying herself in retirement are undoubtedly of an extraordinary nature, or she could never have had the resolution to deny herself for So long a period, what is so highly essential to the happiness of her sex in general I mean adulation.
Perhaps she is unfortunate; perhaps necessitous : if foi indeed pity her. -- An enlarged
mind and contracted circumstances is a calamity, especially when in conjunction with a form that places both the one and the other in a dangerous point of view; for there are a fet of wretches upon, earth, dignified with titles and curled with riches, capable of marking down such a defenceless innocent as lawful prey: and innocent i ought to deem her, who has betrayed no tokens of vice, in either her expressions or behaviour, and only from a Singularity, in itself far from discommendable, avoids meeting impertinent eyes. For rny own part, I v/iji not, to gratify any little palfion, however greatly tempted, transgress
the
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 57
the rules of good breeding; nor shall her peace or privacy be broken in upon by
Frank Bradshaw.
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- o — -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ¥5
LETTER VIII
The Same to the Same.
Holyhead,
Wind high and unfanjourahle,
This morning has, indeed, been a busy one. We were stated at breakfast, according to custom, neither absolutely Sprightly nor absolutely dull, when.our ears were Saluted by an unusual clamour.
You mischief making thing, you! (cried a Semale voice) and So, if it was in your per, “you would ruin Mr. Squib in his lord’s good opinion, only for an innocent frolic, wou’d you ?”
“Aye, that she would (rejoined another lady) it is plain, by pushing for the parlour : but << one comfort is, that his Lordship is above li stening to Such trumpery as she is.”
Mrs. Barnard (my heart acknowledged the voice,) I insist upon Speaking with the compa ny in that room. That they were persons of distinction, I have already learned, and doubt not but they will condescend to protecf an unof sending creature fromhifolent interruption. — I disdain expostulating with any of you, though
I have
38 The H I S T O R Y of
“1 have not deserved the treatment I have met “with. — Yet, perhaps, the fault is in myself ** — might have no view beyond diverting ‘‘ yourselves, and I may teel too fensibly for the occasion; but surely you ought not to have “done.it at my expense. — I again repeat, that it is in vain to oppose my resolution;; I will not retire, until I have Seen the nobleman that daring fellow belongs to.
Surprised at what we heard, we gazed upon one another. • — Mr; Shugburgh,. to whom the voice of distress was familiar, and whose humanity never slept, instantly opened the door, and presented .us. with a .scene beyond description interesting.
siippose a lamb’ about to be vvorr’ed by half a dozen hungry wolves. ■ — Suppose ■ — it is impossible for youito conceive any one idea so tenderly striking, or so beautifully affecting, as the lovely stranger appeared, surrounded by a Set of beings bursting with, envy, malice, and malevolence.
The passage, was instantly cleared. — The generous hearted Sailor, with a frankness peculiar to himself, advanced to the young woman, and taking her by the hand. — “I know not (Said he) that person living I would not gladly “rescue from the gripe of barbarity; - — but you, “my pretty creature, to deliver such a one as “you from persecution must unspeakably de“ “a benevolent heart. I have obtained a “kind of right in you by the .little Service I have “rendered you, on the strength of which, and “the influence I apprehend I postefs with' this good company, I will introduce you to them, “and them to you. — My Lord.” —
“Pardon
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 39
Pardon me. Sir, (said the stranger, gently disengaging her hand) I cannot, I will not fuf pe£t you capable of sporting with the unhappy;; — as I am conscious your intended “compliment is utterly unsuitable to the humi iity of my fortune, you must permit me, by ** first declining it, to save myself from the ri“ “I should otherwise incur. I have been “grossly affronted by Lord kennington’s valet, who assuming the drels of one of the chamber“ “entered my apartment, and behaved “very improperly. I own I could not overlook “so notorious an outrage, and was determined “to apply for protection to a quarter where I “could not apprehend a denial. — If I have succeeded in that refpesf, my every wish is ac“ “and I have only to entreat, that ‘‘ my intrusion, with the cause of it, may be to“ “forgotten.’’
Tell us not of forgetting (said Mr. Finiy, ** pushing forward); it is impossible to forget so agreeable an objedf. Ladies, Miss Kenning“ “perhaps you may prevail; — we are all travellers alike; — I can perceive no didlindfi « on : — you shall, you must become one of us, at least during our temporary limitation to. ‘‘ this untoward spot.”
Miss Kennington warmly joined her sweetly persuasive accents. Never did she appear more amiable in my sight; the friend of her own sex, the friend of loveliness, no narrow apprehensions did she entertain of being outshone— — for her sake, Harry, I will believe a woman can be generous. As for the others, except the Simpering Mrs. Bateman, who is not utterly devoid of humanity, tdl it not in Gath, publijh it not in the
courts
/
4
courts of ajkalon. — Tis true they Spoke not; but verbal opposition is unncceffary when the brow is unfavourable: — the fiend was in their countenances. These haughty puppets ssiall nevertheless dance to my wires, and Sufficiently absurd T will render them. — Oh I could rave! — But Miss Kennington is capable of reconciling me to what I Should otherwise abjure; nor will I dare to traduce a Set of petticoats, whilst Ihe condescends to wear them.
There is a dignity in this stranger’s deportment, yet an humble uniformity, different from anything I ever yet met with. To all. the beauty of Miss kennington’s person and character, is superadded an animation both of features and manners; a commanding fbmething which the pencil might, perhaps reach, but the pen never can. The goodness of the one appears passive, the other a£five. Her soul beams in her eyes; nor is she in the least constrained or uncon jebled by the superiority, as she would intimate,;, of her company. — But let her circumstances be ever so unhappy, it is evident she is ennobled by nature. Their honours are merely hereditary.
Her dress is, to the last degree, plain, but perfectly elegant; — an unquestionable testimony of an elegant mind. Though Solicitous to conceal herself from every eye, she could not degenerate into negligence; the purity of her heart, or excellent established custom of her life inclining her to preserve her outward appearance as free from every loose impropriety, as her interior part.
You and I, Harry, know Something of the Sex, and need not be told what different creatures the morning and evening presents them;
but
Miss SOMMER VILE. 41
but the man, however captivated by a pretty figure when displayed to the best advantage, would be instantly restored to liberty on discovering the cheat; for few of us can excuse a dirty propensity in even a first-rate beauty : nor is it Surprising that the Spruce neat chambermaid engages attention, where the lady mistress is an arrant stattern.
Morn.
We got over yesterday pretty hobblingly; but I perceived Lady sarah’s breast was this morning high fwelled with right honourable indignation.
She had reflected upon the strange conduct she had been furpriled into respedting the little adventurer, and could not Sufficiently defpise herself for it. A pert thing, come from nobody knew “where, bred nobody knew how, and, perhaps, “born on a dunghill, must take it into her head “to conceive herself affronted by a little harm“ “frolic concerted by a Set of people eve“ “way her equals, and have the effrontery “to press upon persons of fashion; — who, “struck by the singularity of her confidence, and the plausibility of a few commonplace“ “— immediately open their arms ** and receive her amongst them.”
“hey dey! here’s a turn indeed I (cried Mr. “Shugburgh) — Ladies hearts, I find, are much ‘‘ sooner lost than won.”
“I beg, sir, (resumed her Ladyship, not a ** little heated) you will not treat what I say So “ludicroussy; the impropriety of our proceed ings is Such, thar even our very Servants are “tempted to exclaim against them; and my ‘‘ woman, as she justly observes, from being no“
“
4
“torious for her honesty, might more naturally “expe<st to be placed at table with us, than a “stranger who can have no pretensions to Such toleration.”
“But Lady Sarah, (said Mr. Finly, warmly) “you will not. Surely, take upon you to Say, that this lovely girl is not of a very different fpe “cies to your handmaid. — Is she not mistress “of many acccomplishments beyond the reach of fortune or the dignity of title? — Her ad
** her language, her Sentiments, are -- -”
« Very fine, (cried she, breaking in upon him “abruptly) very fine, upon my honour, sir; but. “not sufficiently So as to excuse our absurdity. ‘‘ For my part, I have recovered the use of my ** Senses, and shall aq; agreeably to their die ** tates.”
Arraigning a lady’s judgement is not the method to win her to our purpose; I therefore pursued a very different plan. — “I confess (said I, “cohering much meaning and submission into my countenance) that there is too just grounds “for Lady sarah’s dissatisfaction: : were ra“ “premature in our approbation of this girl.
— gyj jgf i^gj. enjoy the favour we have shown ** her, so long as she retains her grateful, her humble behaviour; — it would be cruel to pu ** rush her for our folly: your Ladyship knows (bowing vvith great respect), she was sufficiently sensible that the honour was too much
“for her, and most reiti6fantly accepted it.'
Mrs. Bateman, Miss Turner, (they but now’ joined us) how say you? — Are you disposed to efpou'e the cause of good nature and amiable condefeenfion? Lady Sarah (added I most ar
«
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 43
<< tificially, for I had not given her time to Speak “her farther sentiments) is already overcome, ‘‘ and you must likewise yield.”
“Thou odd creature! (Simpered out Mrs. “Bateman) give us the merits — though do not upon recolledfion, we may implicitly Sub“ “where Lady Sarah approves.”
I discharged a whole volley of compliments, extolled the goodness, the graciousness, of a disposition only a few removes from infernal. — It however was an honest deceit, and happily preserved Patty Price from falling a prey to the united malice of a parcel of proud, artful, dependants, with whom her superiority was a crime of the deepest dye.
What dupes these fine ladies are even to the most contemptible race of flatterers, their attendants! Humiliating reflection!
These gentry can wind them up, and let them down at will by no better artifice than a judicir ous regard to time and their most prevailing inclination; and it was a moot point whether Mrs. Abigail or your friend had been vi6lorious. So dexterousty had she played her cards, and worked upon her ladyship’s various, unamiable paf sions.
Miss Kennington having past a sleepless night from the toothache, breakfasted in her own a partment; nor would Patty Price (our new companion’s name) permit her to breakfast alone. Their tete a tete^ I doubt not, was an agreeable one, as they are apparently well aste6led towards each other, and postefs sources of delight peculiar to their characters.
Bob and Mr. Finly would have been lost things without them, had not Lady sarah’s extraordinary
44   or
nary behaviour rendered their absence a most de sirable circumstance. — They could not, however, forbear drawing off in the evening, whilst I was. left to perform the fatiguing talk of flattery, a lone and unaffisted. — But it must be performed, or Patty be a Sufferer; — I therefore cheerfully Submitted to the otherwise cruel constraint, 3 except now and then that a recollection would strike me of their happiness, when I found myself
pained and unhinged, not from etivy^
Harry, -- but from love; — for were they not
all my chosen friends ?-
Adieu.
LETTER IX
.. Miss Kennington to miss Carey,
Holyhead.
Rejoice with me, mydeardolly, that things have once more taken a happy turn; nor will I deprive myself of present pleasure (a favourite tenet of Mr. bradfhaw’s), by foolishly anticipating future ill; nor will I borrow a tenet only from that gentleman, but on this occasion take the liberty to adopt his language, and profess that I am tempted to conceive myfeif cast on fairy ground. So unexpedled, so flattering, is the alteration these last four and twenty hours have produced in my affairs. — And yet, to deal fairly by you, I have only exchanged menial for
corporeal
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 45
corporeal suffering— — tooth, a single tooth most cruelly torments me, and obliges me to confess, in spite of my heroics, that pain is a real, an almost insupportable, evil.
I would inform you of the strange cause from whence these wonderful effects have been produced, but know not where to begin. • — A kind of magic, -- a strange plot, — in short, I am convinced that the distin<9; ion Mr. Finly was pleased to pay me, was wholly owing to my being the least fluttering, consequently, the most rational, female of the companyfor no Sooner did he encounter the lovely. Spirited, glowing countenance of Patty Price, than your little friend dwindled into that pretty nothingness of ilgnificance peculiar to her age and inoffenstve nature.
But, methinks, I hear you alk, who Patty Price may be. — You must, indeed, be content with the most limited intelligence. — No one can; give other account of her, than that she is a beautiful and reserved young woman; nor is she to be prevailed upon to give an account of herself.
I am soir y to Say it, but my lord’s Servants in general are a confident Set of wretches; nor do I apprehend Mrs. bateman’s woman, or Mr. sin ly’s gentleman (as he is called), to be one jot better disposed. They, as well as th ir masters and mistresses, languished for amusement. — — Cards, Scandal, by a too frequent recourse, lost the power to please. — A frolic was what they had Set their hearts upon; — and it was that frolic that procured us the happiness we now enjoy.
Plough effectually was the malicious purpose of these high fed beingsdeseated! — Instead of humbling
"4^   or
bling a stranger, whose love of retirement, evident superiority, and perhaps due contempt of them excited their resentment, they have abundantly exalted her : therefore, in constderation of the service they have rendered her, I will overlook the baseness of their intention.
Mr. Shugburgh warmly espouses her interest; — but it is a sufficient recommendation with him, to be unfortunate or unprote6ied. My Lord and Mr. Bradshaw were evidently struck by her appearance, but Mr. Finly was absolutely transported.
The ladies, indeed, behold her with cold civility. — A Sneer visibly adorned Lady sarah’s aipe6t; but, however becoming she might conceive it to her features, it was far from conveying an amiable idea of her humanity.
You see low pert a Smiling profpesl, and a cheerful companion or two, is capable of making me. I would not be ungrateful, I would not be Severe, but it hurts me unspeakably, to perceive the Y: /^ mindedness of this great relation. Unprovoked to become the enemy, in all probability, of virtue; virtue in its utmost loveliness, shunning the Sight, the approbation of mortality; is Surely a refle6bon on either her head or her heart. — I wish both may not be greatly concerned.
I have pushed pretty hard to engage her to communicate, but without success.
My dear madam, (Said she this morning, in a teu ar tetefi I am convinced your anxiety ref“ “me proceeds from real benevolence; “— but I cannot prevail upon myself to dis close what would pain me to relate, and you “to hear, without the least benefit or advan; “tagc
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 47
tage to either of us. Be Satisfied, (continued
she with a Sigh, which she vainly endeavoured “to suppress) my reserve does not result from " guilt; — that Fm unfortunate, not criminal; “and should my affairs ever take a favourable “turn, I will most gladly account for what at << present may have the appearance of mystery, “as I find your good opinion will always be of “consequence to my happiness.”
Lady Sarah has been shut up Some hours with her beloved confidants; who, I suppose, will leave nothing unsaid to prevail upon her to discountenance the object of her resentment.
Her ladyship’s passions are strong; but her interest, I hope, will not be Sufficient to biafs the whole company. — As for me, I am a mere cypher, nor would my voice be attended to by this cousin on any occasion. I am impatient for the event, as I cannot doubt Mrs. preston’s power or inclination to prejudice her Ladyship against this worthy girl.
* * *
My conjedlures were but too well founded. — There has been a terrible turmoil; — but Patty is Safe. — Mr. Bradshaw, I shall ever love him for his well employed .eloquence, pleaded her cause with Lady Sarah. She was overcome, and I am happy.
We pasted the whole day together. — I wished but for one addition to the fatisiadiion we enjoyed; — nor did 1 absolutely wish in vain. Our .tea had, indeed, been brought us, every attendant difiriiffed, (it is eaie and freedom alone that constitutes felicity) before the glad period arrived; —
when
48 The H I S T O R Y of
when a gentle tap at the door of my apartment demanded our attention.
I flew with a kind of Spontaneous impatience to inform myfelt of the cause. It was Mr. Fleetwood; the friendly, the obliging, Mr. Fleetwood, my dear, whole interest in the wellbeing of your humble Servant had incited to steal from the joyous party below, to make a few tender inquiries concerning her.
ill timed, yet unconquerable timidity. — No impropriety, no extraordinary distinffion from a man of politeness and fensibility; nevertheless the blushing cheek officiouily betrayed the fluttering heart.
My companion, whose vivacity and well cultivated understanding most deservedly give her the advantage, relieved my confuston, by claiming a share in the compliment.
“I find, sir, (said (lie) that nothing is so at tradfing to young minds, as youth. Had ei there patient or nurse attained their grand cli mafferic, a civil distant inquiry would have been the utmost attention a gentleman of your ** time of life would Save willingly paid; but, as the cafe now stands, you have very prettily “contrived to introduce yourself— — why “(added she, looking archly) attempt to impose“ “us? It is true, the deception is decently covered; but if you had not promised your self Some farther iatisfadfion than a mere How “do you? you had not deferred it till this pe“ “— this tea drinking period, when it is so “natural to expe6f, and so common to give an invitation to take a dish, and a consequential“ “in the conversation“
“own,
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 49
“I own, madam, (said he, Smiling agreeably) the marks are strong upon me. — But Say, am I then successsul? — Will you admit me to the << participation I Sought for; or can you resoive to punisti my presumption and hypocrisy, by obliging me to return from whence I came «‘T will be very plain with you, str, return ed she, in the Same humorous manner); I am “no misanthrope, — theresore could not infli6t: «« the punishment you mention, but by doing violence to' ray own inclination; — and (she looked So meaningly at me, I could Scarce Support my own consciousness) we will not for ‘‘ once behave ungraciousty. But methinks you would have been doubly welcome, if you had brought us another stroller, as we could then have had a party of our own.”
“O! madam, (Said he, with agreeable sur prise) if that is all, your condefcenston shall be “amply rewarded, for I have a friend who will be equally delighted with myself at So unex pesed an overture; — nor must I be prevailed ‘‘ upon to delay his happiness.” — So Saying he hastily withdrew, notwithstanding miss Patty ad vised him to rest content until the tea was over.
I protest, madam, (Said she, as Soon as we were alone,) I was quite concerned for you. — “That young gentleman — But he is perseslly agreeable, and you are not infenstble.do not be offended (added she, very prettily) at “this little liberty, which I would never have ‘‘ taken, but in order to account for a behaviour So foreign to the present dispofition of my “heart. I, indeed, felt So much for you, that I “forgot myself; and, by an assumed vivacity, ‘‘ not only relieved you at that exigence,, but vol. I. D “have
5
have procured you an agreeable evening,
I had no time to reply, — the gentlemen, wi( pleasure fpeaking countenances, made their ai pearance, and the conversation became gener We were abundantly too well pleased with eac other to fecolleft the purpofefor which we wei assembled; — ‘and is it not astonishing, Dolly, th; cards are So frequently permitted to interrupt ir telledlual enjoyments?
All my former Sufferings were forgotten; an never, never did I experience more heart fe satisfa6lion.
T am, c.
LET E R IX
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. "Fleetwood.
Holyhead.
A Week, my good Harry, has now elapse without any extraordinary change, ex cept bob’s happy deliverance from every appre hensson of rivalry. — The fair stranger has II a fatisfasory degree drawn off finly’s attentior from Miss Kennington, and your brother’s hearl beats high with love andffriendship.
Lord Kennington is hnnfelf too much delighted with Patty to be fensible of Mr. finly’s preference of her to 'his niece. — A happy circumstance for us all, as discord and confusion could alone be the consequence of Such a discovery.
dk
Miss S O M MERVILE.
He flutters round her chair, whispers the Softest prettiest things, exults in his own importance, and is utterly unsuspicious that it extends not beyond his little heart. ^
Mr. shugburgh’s open generous nature knows not to disguise its feelings. — What he warmly approves he must warmly commend; by which practice I have been enabled to trace the envious workings of certain ladies difpositions, un perceived by every eye but mine.
Lady Sarah and Miss Turner are everything to each other. Their tastes, their optics, correspond— — and uncharitableness is the medium thro’ which they behold every object; consequently, their private moments and Sentiments must be diabolical.
I am astonifhed they have not yet had the ingenuity to fix a stain upon patty’s character; but, perhaps, they only tolerate her for the present— — aggravate her future mortification; — for bitterer enemies never merit procured.
The widow’s Spirits begin to fail her. — Repentance, Harry, is but another name for ap prehension of punishment; for could the thief escape the execution of his Sentence, or Mrs. bateman’s place by, any means be Secured to her, neither the one nor the other would look back with contrition.
The forfeiture of her provision would be as literally the consequence of idle and improper conduct, as the malefafilors Sufferings of his crimes. — She, nevertheless, possesses Such abundant good nature— — whilst we blame we pity, — and pity what we should blame.
I have remarked to you, in a former epistle, shat human felicity, in a great measure, depends
D 2 upon
|
upon the will; and I am Sorry to have occasion to repeat the observation. You remember our concert. — How happy were we! — Lady sarah’s turbulent Spirit at rest, and Miss kennington’s heart over flowing with satisfaction— — would the addition of'mrs. Bateman and Miss turner’s company have proved an interruption to our harmony, had we but remained strangers to the lovely Patty Price.
You have known the world in a variety of st tuations; — at court, what vice and insipidity! — in the city what insolence and meanness— — ■ the country, what roughness and brutality! but none of the Scenes you have ever been ac ■quainted with were half So extravagant, malicious, or ridiculous, as our private circle. The many excellencies of patty’s person and dispost tion have Set us .all in a fermentthe men, except Bob, with one consent love herthe women, exceptmifs Kennington, as unanimously hate her; nor is the consequence of the one much more agreeable than the other.
Lord Kennington, who piques himself upon his talents for amustng, or procuring amusement, proposed a ball— — couple were by no means
despicable. -- But many and grievous were the
heart burnings it occastoned.
I find it will be impossible to Support it much longer.
His Lordship, presuming upon his rank, and wonderful Superiority, took upon him to difpose of us: — Mr.. Bradstaw, Lady Sarah; — - Mrs. Bateman, Mr. Shugburgh; So far was tolerably judicious: but beheld the falling off: —
Miss Turner was given to poor Bobby, — Miss Kennington to the chagrined Finly, and his tottering ‘lordstiip had the modesty to reserve
the
 3
the queen of the company, the beauteous Patty, for his own prize.
Nothing in nature was ever more whimsically contrasted.
The fellow who had been the instrument of our acquaintance with Patty, was our musician.
Malice lowred on his brow; and all the ladies that had enjoyed his brutal frolic were admitted as humble fpefitators. — You may guess their feelings.
A minuet was called for, to open the performance, — The hobbling peer condudled his fair partner to the goal, and made the preparatory bow with visible triumph when, unfortunately,. his toe, in its. return to a proper position for starting with the lady, struck against the stde of a chair, and obliged him to make a precipitate retreat.
Finly stew to supply his place; but he decla' redj with distorted features and interrupted accents, that no one should shine at his expense, for that minuets should be totally excluded.
Half an hour was spent in rubbing the joint into ease and elasticity, which was no sooner ac complished, than we drew up in order.
F'inly jostled himself next my Lord. Patty smiled encouragement upon him, and reluflantly submitted to the neceshty of joining hands with any other person.
Bob’> eyes wandered after Miss Kennington. — « The music played in vain. — Miss Turner shoved him about, indeed, to tolerable time, but coni -- plained wofully of his heaviness and stupidity.
It is amazing amongst all these vicistitudes that I retain my consequence; but I have not yet dead
3 dared
54   or
dared war against their mightirestes, sty attaching rnyfelf to their mortal enemy.
Youth, Harry, is a pretty season;; insenfi bly communicates a charm to propriety, and casts a gentle veil over petty errors, which none but the malicious and envious either wilh or dare to remove.
Patty and Miss Kennington are at that very period when vanity is apt to mistead the judgement, and affectation to tinge the manners; yet however contemptible the one, or ridiculous the other, we know not how to condemn them; as they are natural, though exuberant shoots tf innocent folly, which we are fenstble the maturity of reason.. aequisttion of experience, will of course liberally prune. But what Shall we say for the affectation that is fullgrown ~ the cafe of these ladies whose vassal I am deemed? — Yet however preposterous, I have and must profess to admire them; — nor is Patty or her friend in any degree so expecting or tenacious, as to the article of homage, as Lady Sarah, Mrs. Bateman, and Miss Turner.
Shave made you master of Lady sarah’s portrait. Set it in the most advantageous light., — Well, is she not an engaging figure? Are Such eyes for languishing, — such lips for lisping, pouting, or uttering nonsense, to be born / The Widow is turned of forty. — Her face a full moon, sat, Smirking, and of ample circumference; her shoulders broad, hips large, and a fist would make you tremble.
Miss Turner, Some half dozen years her senior, a tawny ungain wretch. — I will not enter into particulars.
Mist
Mis's S O M M E R VIE E. 55
Miss Ketmington has a happy taste for dress. — How sweetly is the cap suited to her lovely features, the ribbon to her complexion, and the robe to the elegant neck and shape!
‘‘ Sarah, those clothes (cries her Ladyship occasionally) become you. Touch the bell, ** Bradshaw: my woman,, if you pleafe, — Pray, Preston, (continues she, on her virgin’s pre“ “herself) let me fet you to work; — the model is before you.' — Now can’t you sit me as exactly as Sarah is fitted, and for once let me be genteel? — How mortifying to be for ever outdone 1”
Mrs. Bateman, Miss Turner, and her lady shipj are all equipped in a few days; — and what contributed to show a lovely figure to advantage, proves an horrible aggravation of native ugii nefs.
This is the rock your ladies generally Split upon; — dupes to every arrogant fine woman, whose rank entitles her to lead the fashion. — miss kennington is all good nature and humility, and either does not really discover her aunt’s absurdity, or most ingenuousty conceals her Sense of if from every observer: : — the haughty beauty that would rather Submit to be disguised than not render a whole herd ridiculous, enjoys the awkward imitation, conscious thatunlefs her very person could, be given to every individual, the artfully contrived Westment can impart no grace to the wearer.
But what a wretch to rob my friends of their
best enjoyment! -- -- -- -- They live, Harry, no
longer than I am present; nor to be plain with you, can I, hereafter, write myself out to Such, an immoderate length. I have manifold avo
D 4 cations
5
\
Cations that demand my attention. My lord’s jest must be supported;; kennington’s modest merit drawn forth to view; — patty’s wk and address exercised and displayed;; — honest shugburgh’s mirth duly encouraged; — Lady sarah’s malice kept witun bounds; — bob’s vivacity Saved from dying; Mil's turner’s humour purged from petulance; and finly’s love stifled in its infancy.
The ladies have Sent for me. — Forgive, my fair companions, this last trespass— — I have a word for cur Harry to wind up my epistle.
What can occaston your unusual Silence and stupidity? — News I must have, if not to entertain me, at least to render me entertaining. — You are fenstble of the motive of my confinement to this place. — Deny my request, therefore, if you dare. — But, perhaps, you will plead your privilege. Your — never Swell the catalogue; for it is impossible for me not to remain
your’s,
LETTER X
The same to the same.
NOW, Harry, all is at an end on this fide the water. — The wind, though rough, blows off the coast, and bids us prepare to launch our little bark, — ’tis true, we were most plea singly employed; yet I rejoice at the change for
many
Miss S O 1^1 M E R V I L E. 57
many reasons, but more especially on that person’s account who might have been the greatest Sufferer by our detention; for I quession much but Lady Sarah would have relapsed, in Spite of all my vigilance and indussry. Adieu, therefore, to Holyhead, petty adventures, and the imposition of self-denial and flattery. — My approbation of this amiable creature shall be no longer restrained. If I can be in any degree Serviceable to her, in her future connedlions, it will give me the highest fatisfadiion; for, if she is not worthy my best regard, to what shall we trust? — If every modest, every valuable endowment can be assumed at will, and warped to the purposes of deceiving — I shall begin to doubt even the reality of my own existence, bob’s faith, and. your Sincerity, c,
X K * X
**; »» s *• »» 6 e ^; »•; *♦ \;, V \ - \
L E T T E R XI
From the same to the same,
Dublin
NOTWITHSTANDING' all my resolutions and quick sightedness, this little witch has • eicaped from my knowledge. We had an amazing fine passage for the time of year; and, as I relied upon having an opportunity of declaring my friendly intentions on our disembarkation, I continued to flirt with the ladies as usual; but judge of my astonishment and mortification, v.shen
D 5 er.fering
58   or
entering the house to which all the company had repaired for a little refreshment, and to wait for carriages, I discovered she was not amongst them.
By inquiring for her I Spread the alarm, and it was evident Mr. finly’s concern was not inferior to my own.
Lady Sarah laughed at the fleroine’s elopement, as she raalicioufly styled her; advising both Finly and myself to become errant knights, and wander in quest of her.
I fupprested my resentment from constderations of infinite weight. Miss Kennington appeared too little discomposed at the incident to leave me any reason to doubt that she was privy to her departure; and,, had F retorted upon her Ladyship agreeable to the didates of my heart, I had ex excluded myself from all farther intercourse with the family, and postibility of intelligence.
My Lord'declared, she was a little thief, and he would apprehend her as Such; for she had not only robbed, him of his heart, but Jiolen away herself.
Mr. Shugburgh expressed the most lively concern for her welfare. — ‘‘ Her beauty (said he), will expose her to a multiplicity of inconve niencies, especially if her circumstances are limited, — I would gladly have been a friend to her. — She has deprived me of infinite sa tisfaslion by thus withdrawing herself.”
Mr. Finly was Silent : — A silence expressive of the most tender anxiety. — ■ I know how to Sympathise with him from my own feelings.
The Widow, who is too giddy for malice, and too lively for ill nature, did not make a bad figure upon the occasion. — She would not have
. refused
 9
refused her her countenance or interest, if either would have been useful to her.
Miss Turner, aiming at what nature has denied her, wit, drew her features into an affesa tion of sorrow, and cried, “’twas vjond.rous
I‘ have not met with anything that has So thoroughly chagrined me for a long time. — It was an unkind trick, at least wkh refpefl 'to sin ly, who so frequently professed himself interested in her fate. — Yet, Perplexity begone I I am a philofopher.'i — Ah, Harry, it withdraws not its daring front; but imperioussy demands. Can philosophy make a Patty? ■ — You may, however, spare yourself the trouble of being Smart upon the occasson, as the distance between us is so great, that Ibng before your witticisms can reach me, I shall be once more my very self.
Bob relapsed into the Dolorous on parting with Miss Kennington, notwithstanding we received many cordial invitations from his lord ship to improve our acquaintance.
finly’s grandfather died three days before our arrival, andshe is consequently become a dignified personage— — nevertheless has given us his company entirely, or I know not how we should have supported ourselves. I own I am Several keys lower than ufuah
... < "A
•., A.
L E T
• <

9
6o   op
LETTER XI
I
Mils Kennington to miss Carey.
Duhliu.
I T is true, my dear Dolly, that we have at last attained the destined port; — most reluctantly attained it, as more hearts than mine are ready to testify.
But, perhaps, you may be disposed to receive Some account of us previous to our embarkation. That I am willing to oblige you, I hope you have no doubt; but my vivacity, my descriptive powers, if any I possessed, remain at Holyhead, and you must have much leisure, and an extravagant fund of good-humour, if you can patiently peruse the dull epistles I Shall henceforth present you with.
It were better never to have known felicity than survive its loss— — Fleetwood, how will he employ his future hours? — Can he ever forget they were all st vi ely devoted to my amufe rnent? — And will not the recdleftion occaston him some little pain? — For me alone he seemed to live. — But it is a vain and fruitless inquiry. — I will therefore re enjoy what is past, by resigning my soul to thee, thou never-failing friend. Imagination; and, oh! restore it to that bliss stern reason would refuse.
Many days had Sweetly pasted away, our
good
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 6i
good liking of each other beyond measure increased, when the dreadful hour of Separaticn suddenly overtook us. — For, in short, we Seemed to have delivered ourselves up to the most extraordinary, as well as flattering, of delusions; — not once remembering by how precarious a tenure our happiness was suspended.
We had dined with our usual cheerfulness; and the cloth was Scarce removed, before my Lord proposed, that the ensuing part of the day (to use his own words) “should be given to hai“ “— “The voice is ever in tune (Said he) “when the bosom’s at rest; and if we may “trust the countenance of this little circle, we “cannot apprehend the stightest impediment to “the test appearances; ” — immediately striking up a Soft air, which was evidently warbled at Mils Patty, though as evidently disregarded by her.
It was her turn next. Never shall I forget how well she performed; her melody, her judgement, were highly extolled.
My lord was very brilliant upon the occasion. — “Happily fancied (cried he)! — prettily infl “nuated! The double Stroke of the vanity of beauty and the vanity of wit, he could northeast“ “Sufficiently admire. — Fain is heantfs gaudy flower— — aflpetedly). — I hope, my “young lady, that lesson is as profitable with “you, as your Jloadovj of a fiade shall be with me. — It was well direcied, — and cannot fail “ol its purpose.”
'i’his Sally diverted us all, as alternate Singing and commenting continued to do, for two succes five hours, when we were interrupted by a music of a more boisterous nature. The wind, my dear, alike perverse in its constancy as variableness,
6
ness, at that instant shifted its quarter. — All hands were summoned on board, nor could the unhappily surprised passengers escape a Similar fate.
We arose; disappointment sat upon every countenance, particularly Miss price’s, who besought me, in a whisper, to favour.her with a few moments private conversation. - — T retired with her into a little apartment opposite the room we were then in.
“Our time, my dear madam (said she, as we ** entered), is now .become infinitely precious, ** and I can only entreat you,, if possible, not to ** withdraw your friendship and approbation, “however you may hear I am circumstanced on our arrival in Dublin. Tknow you Superior “to every little prejudice narrow minds are fub ‘‘ je£i to; but it wist be no easy talk.to recon “cile your family, to your generous Sentiments. My situation mean, my origin obscure, will not your condefcension be prohibited and con“ “
Nothing; Patty. (returned I, eagerly), no thing shall prevent, my attachment, but what ** can never, happen, a. co.nvi6tion of your, un worihinefs. — What have I to boast? — Am I ‘‘ not a poor dependant upon the bounty, the “— but you know' their dispcfitions.”
“Ah! madam (said the lovely girl); you for“ “the. consequence Lord kennington’s near “relationship gives you. — Not to afford you the “prote61ion you now enjoy, would be to fix an “indelible stain upon his humanity; but I — “However, my dear miss, I vvill not labour the “point; every one but yourself, will see “things in another light,. It is not in my pow ^
’ “■
Miss S G M M E R V I L E. ^3
** er (coi\tinued she) to be properly explicit with “regard to the life I am entering upon; but 1 “will take the liberty of informing you by let .ter, so soon as I am fettled. — T have reason to “apprehend the gentlemen will be abundantly curious to know my destination; and as it is “not convenient to oblige them, I have deter ‘‘ mined to take a French leave the instant I Set my foot on shore, notwithstanding I shall ever retain a grateful sense of the civility they
have shown me. — The parting -- -- -- -- -- ”
« Who talks of parting, with a voice So sweet?” ?” his Lordship, with his usual gaiety, wsho came upon us very abruptly. — “Our parting, my pretty friend, must be a transient one, or a certain acquaintance of “your’s will be most unhappy. I have long “observed (continued he) the growing, aste: fion of my lovely girls for each other, and hope to find it more' durable than the generality of “female minds are capable, of.. — No rivalry can ever intervene. — Though, equally at tra6iive, your charms are of so distindb, so ** separate a species, that whoever admires the one, can only approve the other,
“To your care, Sally, (added he with great << Solemnity) I may venture to recommend your other; Self; prevail upon her. to accompany “you home,, until she has,, at least, recovered “the fatigue of her passage; — and tell her, that << the master of. that house will never experi “ence any degree of felicity, unless she will be come a frequent visitant.”
Mr. Finly advanced as his Lordship concluded
this very gallant Speech. -- - May I be per
‘‘ mitted ?” Said he Smiling.
“Why
6
t( Why faith, sir (returned my Lord), you are not more uncpportune than daring in your approach to this Spot. A ssngle temptation, at your time of day, might have proved fufg ‘‘ cient. — Thus doubly — But I leave you to your fate” casting a look at me that I too well understood to be perfefitly composed
« dear ladies (Said Mr. Finly), how stand “your hearts affected, with refpefifc to this “hasty embarkation? — Could, we not have tasted the utmost Sweets of life, even in this “narrow, dreary, corner? — Is there, can there “be aught in Dublin to compensate the loss of amiable friendship, and elegant Society ?”
“I, sir (Said Miss Price), have abundant rea ~ ‘‘ fon to regret leaving this place. — The indulgence shown me here, I fear I shall Seldom “know hereafter; and I am more than ever dif -- qualified for the conversation of my equals. Mr. Fleetwood and Mr. Bradshaw now joined us. ' every one Seemed to wish the other absent for private reasons— — it could not be. — All order, all satisfaction, was at an end, and we were diffatched on board with the utmost expedition.
patty’s hand was contended for by three valiant knights. — But who knows not the efficacy of titles and dignities? — My Lord bore away the prize, ' whilst her less happy admirers most reludfantly tendered their Services to the other ladies.
Lady Sarah, very luckily, was ignorant of her swain’s defedlion, or the loss of her favour had been irretrievable. -- ILIAD reason to tremble, as his friend would have been involved in the same ruin.
He
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 65
He had, in general, conduced himself with great propriety. -- .Donest nature will not, however, at all times, brock restraint. — Prudence, in conjundlion with resolution, is powerful; but love, my friend, is Superior to both.
You would have been highly diverted at my lord’s astlduity, so long as he was capable of being assiduous about the fair one, who was immediately affeqied by the motion of the ship. — But he was not long in a condition to afford her any assistance, and became by much the most pitiable object.
Patty gave me a farewell look, as we disembarked.
— The tears were ready to start. -- -1
turned hastily from her — never, perhaps, to behold her more. — She, by Some means or other, contrived to elude all observation, and had conveyed herself far from every one’s knowledge, even before they were fenstble of their loss,,
Lord lamented her departure; Lady Sarah triumphed; — my heartfelt a kind of doubtful hope of feeing her again; and the gentlemen were generally concerned and affected.
Surely, my dear, she will not unkindly deceive me.
You showed my long letter to mamma, which will answer every purpose for Some time to come : I need, therefore, only add that I am,
most affeffionately your’s,
S. Kennington.
LET
0
6
I • : : : i : : I :; : :! 3 : : < 3 < i
LETTER XII ■
Mr., Brad, shaw to Mr, Fleetwood.
y *
Dublin.
JUS T returned from vissting at Lord ken nington’s. Bob is a happy fellow. miss kennington’s' reception of him was to the last degree flattering, and restored him to life and consequence.
Lady Sarah was not at home on our first arrival. — As for the gentlemen, they dined at the Castle, and were net expedied till late in the evening.
We had chatted Some time, and i^' had prepared a very long Speech, in order to prevail upon the young lady to betray her friend’s trust, when a thundering rap at the door announced Lady sarah’s return.
She flew upstairs with the utmost rapidity; — scarcely bestowed any attention to our civil Salutations, — but appeared in great, though plea sthg agitation i
Bob and I stared at each other, nor was Miss Kennington less at a loss to accounttor her ladyship’s strange behaviour.
At length she vouchsafed to reveal the mighty cause.
‘‘ If I had not been So fortunate, gentlemen“ “to meet with you here, I fancy it would have answered, to dispatch a Special messenger
with.
 7
** with the glad tidings. — Miss Patty lives; — ah « lives not lar from hence! Sally, remember you a milliner — in dartmouth street she ** dwells, — it being holiday the beggar’s shop is opeity and behind the counter sits Miss Patty.” The fool your friend started. — Lady sarah’s heart bounded with malicious pleasure at the success of her laboured, and evidently preconcerted Speech.
I could perceive the little tradeswoman re assumed she) in her whole deportment, and own: my astonishment at the general infatua “tion that prevailed.”
“How will I rally my Lord and Mr. shug burgh, who distinguished himself so stngularly “in her behalf. The pretty creature (continued ‘‘ she in barbarous rapture) had been visiting the “English metropolis, in order to see and con“ “fashions from thence. A milliner, a journey woman milliner! I protest I should have honoured my woman for her condefcen sion, if she had taken notice of her — Well, ‘‘ I think we made ourselves Sufficiently ridiculous“
“I am Surprised at what I hear return ed your Bradshaw), I must acknowledge; but am far from entering into the opinion, that it " is any reflection upon either our discernment ‘‘ or understandings, to have treated fucb a girl “with kindness and humanity. — What did we “more? — She dined at the Same table indeed,
■ — had a modest share in the conversation, — was properly fensible of the disparity of con“ “and behaved with unspeakable humility
«
i
ft I
68 The H I S T O R Y of
‘‘ Well, Sir, (leturned she with an air of | haughty condefcension) we will permit you to i defend an error in your judgement.”
Error, Lady Sarah! (replied I, hastily) ** pardon me for borrowing your expreshon; — but, if it was an error, it was a most pleasing one; — and do we err then when we pay a due tribute to merit? Could even your ladyship’s “refinement carp at a single impropriety in her conversation or behaviour? — Was she not at “all times so perfeslly collected— — entirely “mistress of herself and the fubje6): she choie to engage upon, as to bid defiance to the ut ’ most malice of criticism ?”
Is she not a milliner? (demanded her lady ship, maliciousty exulting) — Did you conceive “she was a milliner? — Or, will you take upon ‘‘ you to prove that a milliner is a suitable com“ “for people of rank ?”
Not in public (returned'i), Lady, Sarah; but good breeding, good fenfe, and a fair re putation, entitles every female to the kind con“ “of her own sex, let their condition be what it may, in their more retired hours. — Is an humble friend in any degree contemptible? — Surely no, — when the parade of state is laid aside, and the heart alone becomes the objefit of contemplation. What says the pro“ “Lady Sarah (continued I), ’tzv man ners makes the man, and a cultivated nature, wherever found, merits regard.”
I won’t quarrel with you (returned she,, with ‘‘ a Sneer). — Men will argue like men. — A pretty face goes far, and levels all distinfilion.”
By no means (Said I, it was a point, Harry “that deserved to be laboured), there is not a
“lady
 9
lady of you all that is more tenacious of what ^ belongs to her chara6ier than I would be for ‘ her; I would be the last person to recommend ‘ an unsuitable companion to accompany her to ‘ the drawing-room, or any other place calcu ‘ lated merely for the resort of fortune’s favourites; — but I can never bring myself to allow ‘ that such a personas Patty unassuming, grate ‘ full, and finely accomplistied, tho’ only a mil ‘ liner, or, as your Ladyship, by way of ag ‘ gravation, styled her, only a journey woman ^ milliner, is an unworthy tete-a-tete for a duchess.”
Let us have tea, Sarah, said she (casting adif ‘‘ dainful look at your friend), and another fubje<5t.”
“O woman! lovely woman! Nature made you, “To temper man : We had been brutes without you.”
Their power is indeed, most wonderful v/itli refpe6l to us. — Why then will they So utterly negleo; themselves— — of fortune, amongst the men, is not deemed so heinous, as with the ladies. We can approve merit, however shaded by misfortune. — What then can incite these gentle hearted creatures to be so unjust and ungenerous to the fussering part of their own weak sex?? I will maintain it, that were young women (delicately bred, and compelled to be industrious) more generally encouraged and countenanced by persons in happier circumstances, it would be a cordial to their Spirits, and a Spur to their diligence; and not only prevent their languishing out their days in heartfelt mortifi 'cation, but preserve them from falling a prey to the wicked, the cruel advantage, mankind are ' too apt to take of their exposed situations.
Lord
I
70   ot
Lord Finly has been out all day upon bussness relative to his deceased grandfather, and I most impatiently wait his return, to give him a part in the Scene we have been engaged in. — It cuts me to the soul, that Lady Sarah has Such an opportunity of triumphing.
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -
LETTER XIII
Miss Price to Miss Kennington..
OH, my dear madam! did I not tell you, that I was utterly unworthy your consideration and favour? But you will know the very worst of me before this falls into your hands; as I dare believe Lady Sarah will be far from extenuating any unfavourable circumstance that may have reached her knowledge.
I had intended to write you an account of my Situation this very afternoon, if I even had been Spared the mortifying rencounter; — but I have this consolation, that however low my fortune may have placed me, my mind is not only un ■ contaminated by vice, but intireiy devoid of that overbearing cruelty So peculiar to conscious Superiority.
You, perhaps, Smile at my mention of Superb; ority (a condescending Smile, for you must be a i stranger to every ungenerous pastion), and ask, to whom can you be Superior ^ — But you will be pleased, madam, to recollect the variety of sub bordinaiion life affords; you know, by knowing;
me, i
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 71
me, that there are little beings; and, permit me to inform you, there are still less degrees of littleness— — that I am restrained from playing the tyrant (it I am restrained) by distn clination, not want of power.
I own I am greatly disconcerted by what has happened; — not from pride, that were an unworthy Source. We were not all born for prosperity; therefore adverstty is the misfortune, not reproach, of humanity. — But her ladystiip’s difposition 1 — Did you know how stie treated me. — Sneeringly civil and exultingly cruel. — I beg your pardon, stie is your near relation; — Yet how little resembling 1
Many incidents concurred to throw me in her way; the good woman in whose bulinefs I am fixed, happened to be absent— — parlour required alteration, — which drove me from thence. — The shop must sooner or later have exposed me to observation, and perhaps as well now as hereafter.
A string of carriages obstrudled her ladyship’s pastage. — She naturally looked, out to inform herself osthe cause;; I, to my great.. mortification, caught her eye and determined her to alight.
So, so, fellow traveller said she, as she en tered the shop), I find you are an useful member of society— — may that ribbon be ' “a yard? — ^(1 was confused— — are not So “expert at this trade (continued she), as the last you were engaged in. — The fine lady is your talent. — You really hit off the charafler to
a miracle. But call your mother aunt, ” -- -- --
“My mistress, madam, (returned I, with '■«« due humility) is not .at home.”
“Mistress!
72 ' The H I S T O R Y of
mistress! — Heaven defend me! — exclaim 1 ‘‘ ed she) And are you So low as that! — Well, ^ “good morning to you, I am upon the wing, and will bear your bats mains to Sally and his, Lordship.”
This is one third of the pretty things she was; pleased to say upon the occasson, and I doubt not but she has Set me off to the best advantage.
I ought to make a thousand apologies not only for forbearing to reveal my employment to you, Seeking to establish myself in your friendship and confidence, — conversing with you as it were upon equal terms, but also for now presuming to write to you : but if you can forgive the former, you will not be offended by the latter : it was your request, your injundlion, that I should inform you of my future residence— — you encouraged me to hope; that hope alas! has lost its loundation, and I shall be all suspense and anxiety until you condescend to favour me with your final resolution respecting. Madam,
Your most obliged,
obedient Servant,
M. P.
LETTER XIV
Miss Kennington to Miss Price.
II OW little, my dear Patty, do you know I of my heart, to conceive it within the reach of mere externals. — It was your gocd behaviour,

Miss S O M M E R VI L E. 73
haviour, your sensibility, your very many perfe6li ons, that recommended you, on our first acquaintance, to my approbation.that approbation was improved into real affefiion and attachment, by a better knowledge of your disposition and Sentiments. — You tell me they are unchanged; consequently, my attachment isunfhaken. Nay, 1 know not if the hurnility of your circumstances would not be highly pleasing to me, if I was not well convinced they are not natural to yourself— — is a Something beyond my penetration. — •but since you wish to conceal, I will not wish to discover.
It certainly was unlucky that Lady Sarah took you at Such a disadvantage. — You must not be mortified. But she did not Spare you; and what was doubly disagreeable, Mr. Fleetwood and Mr. Bradshaw Saw her in her first transports of ill natured exultation.
On my word Mr. Bradshaw warmly defended you. It is plain I am not the only friend your merit procured you. They took their leave before my Lord or Mr. Shugburgh returned home, and a most horrid evening I had of it.
My Lord received the unexpe6ied information with visible astonishment; and, having paused a few moments, — “She is a pretty creature, (Said he) let her rank in life be what it may; nor “can I apprehend it will be any disparagement “to our cousin Sarah to take notice of her.’* “Disparagement! (cried Mr. shugburgh) “Who could be disparaged by caresting So vai luable a young person. She shall not want a ** friend, or protestor, if she will accept of me in either character. I can stand the shocks of vol. I. E “raillery.
7
raillery, and the Sneers of malevolence. — J“ “not (added he, with the utmost grace of humanity) to shrink from a good cause, though all the world bessde were to forsake it; nor shall the child of misfortune, if the child of virtue, ever be deferred by me. I will visit “her tomorrow.”
Most heroically, and I must beg leave to add, whimsically resolved (cried Lady Sarah): “but I hope, sir, your tenderness will not sofar mistead you, as to incite you to attempt introducing her in this house— — |
“article. Lady Sarah, belongs, (said | ‘‘ Lordship rather gravely) to me. Mr.;
Shugburgh, I am confident, is too well-bred “to invade my province; nor can it be neceffa “ry, at this time of day, to teach you your du ty. Your inclinations are free. — I never even wished to restrain them? if not utterly! extravagant; but I do insist upon it, that Sai ‘‘ ly is likewise allowed (at least under my sanction) to choose her own acquaintance, amongst“ “number I expel her to rank this most“ “girl, ”
Her Ladyship Swelled, pouted, and even shed tears, but my Lord was immoveable. — “I will “be obeyed. Lady Sarah (resumed he with great ** firmness).. I have no objection to gilding the « pilb but down it shall go. — You may have “Some new acquisition at heart, — if this will answer your purpose, let it answer mine, and ‘‘ it is yours.” — Holding out a note for what Sum I could not distinguish.
“It is mine, my Lord, (Said she, eagerly “catching at it) and I am your’s. There is no
‘‘ resist
V
i
5
Miss SOMMERVILE. ‘75
relisting the arguments you make use of.” —. His Lordship kissed her, gave me an approving nod, and peace was once more' reestablished.
You may therefore, prepare yourself for an invitation, which I thus prepare you to accept, r 1 shall ever entertain an indifferent opinion of your Sincerity. You have told me my conversation, my Sentiments are agreeable to you. — Come then and enjoy, as well as communicate, that best fatisfaq; ion of mortality, the Society of an approved and beloved companion.
This Supercilious Lady Sarah will not be an impediment to our chat, as her pride will induce her to avoid what her reason cannot but admire.
I am, cs.
Kennington. LETTER XV
■rst
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
and so, my worthy Harry, you really conclude, that I am become a convert to the whining fedt. I own your Satire is prettily point ed, your condolence Spirited, but utterly misplaced.
It is true, I admire Patty Price, feriousty admire her: have made her the subject of more than one epistle, and described her mental and
E a corporeal
76   op
corporal loveliness in glowing terms; yet is my heart as whole and entire as when we parted.
E have a playfulness in my nature, that I am Surprised to find has escaped your observation, as vrell as that of your brother and Lord Finly, who are most egregiousty taken in from judging of my breast by the tender propensity of their own. I humour their error; and if you are misted after this confession, you can have nothing to charge me with. |
That I was concerned at her elopement, I will not deny. — Thou vile distinguifher! — Is it then a consequence that we must love when we compassionate an objedi:? — - but I was piqued at Lady sarah’s ridicule. — A strong mark, indeed, — Nay more; I defended, justified her. — • Ah,, pitied and applauded her.
But come, let us Search this wounded mar more attentively, nor Suffer ourselves to mistake bruises for fractures. — Here we have him mofli excellently displayed in the following converfati 1 on, nor shall we be longer deceived.!
You must first, however, understand that I owe Finly a sort of grudge for ousting me in bob’s affection. Before his arrival, how effen 1 tial my presence to the young man’s happinefsls He could not eat; he could not laugh without! Bradshaw; — but the agreeable Finly no Sooner [ appeared, than I was considered as a kind of superior, incapable of entering into the little soft i ‘■neffesof their fancies; consequently .was shunned! ‘and disregarded[ [
He received the intelligence we were fraught! with from Lord/kennington, with the utmost
com
1
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 77
composure. ** Are you ret Surprised, (demand ** ed Ij ?” —
** No, Sir (returned he, a little testily); nor in the least d pree trorusied. Our knowledge “of Mils Price began in mystery : you do not ** idly imagine, 1 hope, that you have now attained tile unravelling. — Some secret perfecu “tion, feme great calamity, has, I doubt not, compelled her to become a wanderer; and, for “her better Security, placed her in the circum stances Lady Sarah found her. But how little ** does she know of herself when she conceives it poshble for merit like hers to be hid. At the same time that I am charmed with her humi“ “(continued he, looking very wife)! I trem “ble for her reputation, and repose: something“ “be done to convince her of the necelflty there is for proceeding upon a different plan.” The short manner in which I was taken up by my Spark, Suggested a frolic. — It was evident fromshis whole behaviour that he was a proper objedf to work upon. — The green eyed men jier jealoujy delights to prey upon the warm in blood. I, therefore, demanded with affected heat;
“And, pray sir, what step would you in your great prudence recommend? But you cannot “mean to instnuate that you are more interested “in her happiness than some other persons who “would think themselves grossly affronted if they were to be excluded from a knowledge ** of her sttuation.”
My good friend, (Said the terror struck ** Bob) your w’armth upon this occaston alarms me. — Surely you cannot mean; — it would “be ridiculous to disagree about a young
E 3 woman
  of
woman whole heart may be already bestowed upon a third person— — love you beth, and “shall be unspeakably hurt if you do not love “one another.’’
Thou art an honest fellow, (replied finly, with assumed cheerfulness, but somewhat ti“ “Bob. ■ — ■ I would not hesitate to expose my life in So lovely a creature’s defence; but am far from intending to invite your Frank to a tilting match. I own she has stolen incon ceivably upon my approbation; but it would be highly chimerical, as you observe, to dispute a prize that may be equally beyond our reach; we will talk no more of it.”
This was giving edge to my Satire, (Thou simple gudgeon, the bait is deadly) — and incited me to make him Smart more Severely.
“Not talk of it! ’tis well, sir, your present ease has been purchased at my expense. How ** finely have I Suffered my most material in“ “to become fubservient to the preservation of a little paltry tranquillity! — What “vile impressions may not have been given of me I”
‘‘ Aprotejiing countenance f — ■ do not harbour disingenuous Suspicions (cried he); IHAVE nei there attempted to communicate; nor has she“ “dare believe, imbibed the minutest prejudice against you.
If I have had more frequent opportunities ‘‘ of entertaining her than yourself, I have not less to complain of: her Serious attention to every tender Subject was most unkindly withheld“
“indeed, I pressed her So hard that!
“extorted
Miss S O M M E R V T L E. 79
** extorted a reply sufficient to chill every rissng hope.”
“I detest affeslation (said she), therefore will “not deny but I understand your present mean ing; but give me leave to aik you what idea you entertain of my intelle6is, if you suppose me capable of being captivated by mere heroics?? acquaintance is very young, ~ commenced after an extraordinary manner; — my appearance; but not to dwell upon every unfavourable particular, I will, at once, in form you that your profeshons, instead of flat tering my vanity, mortify me extremely. It is derogatory to your character to make them; and to listen to them would be a reproach to “iriine. If it is really agreeable to you to be treated by me with friendship and unreferve, “give me this one convincing proof, — forbear“ “henceforth to introduce So wild, so pre posterous a subject.”
I was Subdued. — ‘‘you are a man of honour, “Finly, (said I) and I will be Satisfied, thus far, “in playfulness.” But I was tempted to add, from real affection for his Lordship :
“But you can never intend to unite yourself“ “So humble, so obscure, however amiable a “girl; your family expedls.”
Behold the constru6lion!
“O dear, Mr. Bradshaw (returned this tardy “Lord)! my family is infinitely indebted to you “for your tender regard for their honour and “dignities — (very ingeniously urged): But, “pray, do you conceive yourself to be a person“ “so little consequence?? — > father the “representative of an ancient borough, and in
E 4 pof
8o The H I S T O R Y of
“poiteffion of an unencumbered estate of two “thousand pounds a year; that you may make “what eleqion you please without censure or clamour/’
I was hurt by his folly, and intended to have made him fensible of it; therefore replied :
“The more considerable the distance, my “Lord; ” — But I had not patience to proceed; — petulance was predominant. — “We will, however leave the point undifcusted (Said 1, peevistily). — Our difposttions are so widely oppostte that it would be to little purpose— — friend and the lover is with you the same ** thing.”
True, Mr. Frank, (cried he, breaking in ** upon me with an air of triumph) and the warmth you have shown upon this occaston, ‘‘ is an undeniable proof of your capacity to “keep the chara6fers distinct.”
W e were so much unhinged by this idle altercation that the whole evening was fpentat crofs purposes. Whatevei I advanced was contradifl ed, ridiculed, or disputed by the polite Lord Finly. I was too wise, however to be disgusted;; was actually concerned to see him sofar gone in, at best, an extravagant passion. I am too much a man of the world to overlook the inequality of their sttuations, end exceedingly rejoice on every account, that bob’s idol is not equally exceptionable.
As to the article of fortune, I have but little to say : Lord kennington’s estate is largely dipped; but as you are determined to remain a bachelor, your brother certainly has it in his power to indulge his inclination. — Family and fine accomplishments are Sufficient.
O Patty!
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 8i
O Patty! Patty I how unjust does this pride of the world render us! You are by no means inferior to miss Kennington in every pleassng, every attradfive qualification; — but alas! the iron hand of Poverty has marked you for his own; and you are undoubtedly, the offspring of Some humble pair. — Yet is Lord finly’s heart irrecoverably gone; and I believe that minds of a Similar composition with his, when once Subdued, are ruined for ever.
Your happy elastic natures, that are ready to receive, yet incapable of retaining, any impresti on. -- -- I cannot philosophize. — Oh thou ungracious
deity! tell me what are the advantages of sight, when thou, though blind, art an infallible marks man; whilst many with two lively, and in general penetrating eyes, are as unable to discover, as elude, thy mischievous intent.”
I am, c.
LETTER XVI
Miss Ken NTN G T O N to miss C arey.
Believe me, Dolly, you ever possessed the first place in my esteem and affection; but you have unfpcakably endeared yourself to my heart by your great tenderness and generosity to my dear unfortunate mother. — She has told me all your attention, your diligence, your almost filial regard; — nor will I envy you all the noblest gratifications of humanity. — You have
E e healed
'4
\
82 The H I S T O R Y of
healed my better part: mine were merely the Sufferings of pride! — But what name is Sufficient!) strong for the pangs she has endured! - — I Sy! I must fly reflections I am unable to Support!
How agreeably you flatter me, that the trifling Scenes I am engaged in afford you amusement.
I expedied no Icfs from your good nature than that you would interest yourself in patty’s concerns. She is an amazing girl, — nor can I always suppress the wildest conjedfures, respecting her real character and connexions; — but as it is a folly to indulge unmeaning fancies, I will proceed with that part of her history that lies before me.
Lady Sarah having vouchsafed to inform us that She was engaged for the day, a card was dispatched with the joint approbation of my Lord and Mr. Shugburgh to Inlreat patty’s company during her absence.
She would gladly have declined the invitation on one perfon’s account, however eligible the other’s in. her most partial estimation. Policy, nevertheless, prevailed; Some concessions are inevitable; — she must either endure the persecutions of foppery at little periods, or for ever exclude herself from the happy delights of friendship; — nor shall (he fail of her reward; for I will strain a point, but before this week’s termination Mr. Shugburgh and I will have her one whole evening to ourselves.
Nothing can be imagined more lovely than her appearance. — Her elegance, her modesty I had long been acquainted with; but a certain felf poffeffion or tranquil dignity was now apparent.
 3
rent, the Significance or Source of which could not be misunderstood. — We knew her for what Ihe was, yet were unable to withdraw those favourable ientiments we imbibed at Holyhead; nor was she in any degree ashamed of a voluntary, a worthy industry.
How contemptible does she make me appear in my own eyes! I shrunk and was confounded in my hour of adversity!! — idleness and mean pride disinclined me to work; but to beg, I could descend with the utmost alacrity. — The bread of dependence was the bread my servile nature could fubfist upon; and to Secure my body from labour, I have delivered up my mind to the cruel yoke of restraint.
My Lord, upon my word, his parade alarms me! — the objeci; so charming! — his sensibility so strong I — yet it is impostible! He is at least threescore, my dear; a period very unsuitable for gallantry and intrigue. — He is in truth a very ridiculous — but I do hope, for the honour of the family and the continuation of the satisfaction I at present enjoy, that he is an inoffensive being. I am under no apprehensions for patty’s virtue; but our friendly intercourse would be totally interrupted by such an incident.
Mr. Shugburgh is surely the worthiest creature living. With ail the tenderness of a father, and the benevolence of humanity, he cautioned her against the evils of life, pitied her exposed Situation, and applauded her industry.
‘‘ My fortune, (said he) my little friend (the epithet his good nature ever bestows upon her) is not an extensive one; yet, if Providence had “blessed me with such a daughter as yourself“
“
f
8
“how happily would it have enabled me to pio“ “for her!
“At present, excluded as I am by my fituati ‘‘ on from every expense, the receipt of my in“ “conveys no raptures to my heart: “nor, such is the depravity of the world’s judge ment, can I employ it agreeably tomy wishes.
Were it possible to improve the hint, (continued he in the kindest accents) Sir Richard Steele has given us of rational taste, in his “amiable Beville, with what delight should I ** behold one of nature’s most perfect produ6ii ons sheltered from every rough, every cruel “blast, by only accepting (as he phrases it) a “little useless ore that, however otherwise em“ “could not purchase fatisfaflions by any means adequate.”
And pray, Mr. Shugburgh, (demanded his ** Lordship, hastily) what has this imaginary bugbear the World to do with the tastes of ** particular individuals? — The few Bevilles “that are publicly known, at least in that character, is merely owing to the few Indianas; *( — but show me the man, or woman either, ** that could object to your choice.”
Alas, my Lord (reiurned the goodxreature) common opinion will be gross; the shocking
“appellation of keeper! -- -- ”
“The more refined (Said his Lordship) would « give it a Softer epithet.”
‘‘ This is not the age for refinement re ** replied Mr. Shugburgh); and I again repeat, that the odium of Keeper and Kept would ** be cast upon an aft of the most exalted bene“ “
» these
.>
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 85
These double natured, these amphibious “animals, (Said my Lord, turning to Patty)
“have ideas no less preposterous than their own ** existence; but if I might be permitted to take the lead without interruption, I could give a more just as well as beautiful likeness of men and things.”
“I should be alarmed, my Lord, (Said the worthy man) at the evil tendency of your pre sent finesse; but for the confidence I have in “patty’s taste and principles. — They must be beyond the reach of the most Subtle breath • ‘‘ of impropriety.”
‘‘ Your language (returned the peer, with an air of confciolis Superiority) is singular— — “question if you have one determinate idea. — Harkee, Shugburgh, wherein do you conceive the essence of propriety to con
«
Do you, my Lord, pursue essences? (Said “Mr. Shugburgh, with honest disdain) I judge “only of substances. It is true, you have the “advantage of me in point ot education; but common sense is common sense, let it fall to ‘‘ whole share it will; nor are its operations less strong or less beneficial in my breast than yours, ”
“Indeed, gentlemen, (Said Patty, with her usual modesty and sweetness) you may Spare “your very critical discussion of a fubje(5i that I “own confuses, without enlightening, my un derstanding. I remember the argument be“ “in benevolence, whatever might be the collateral views of its investigation; but as it “can in no degree affect either my circum stances or sentiments, I would humbly entreat
** .the
8
#
“the conversation might be Somewhat more
general.”
My Lord kissed the hand that was next him; called many powders to witness he would rather die than offend her; — and a less particular subject was immediately introduced.
But what think you of this right honourable coxcomb : I muss out with it, Dolly, though it may become Mr. Bradshaw to give titles that I ought to discountenance. O duty! propriety! gratitude! how am I dead to your every feeling!
Indeed, my dear, I begin to apprehend that feme Singular Scenes are preparing, in which I shall be more than a bare spectator, Iiy what manner to condufb, or by what means extricate myself, I know not; but I hope my heart will not betray me into evil. If all is right there, I shall not fail: wit, genius, learning, are not the things moss needful. The bess head may become giddy, unless duly regulated and ressrained by judicious principles.
Oh England! Oh my mother! shall I never See you more I
\
LETTER XVII
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
I Wish I could give my beloved, tho’ Satirical Harry, a good account of these Silly fellows; but wish in vain. Ail my remonssrances, my
admonitions,
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 87
admonitions, are ineffectual; and they still remain dupes to the idle infatuation of their own bright fancies.
Lord Kennington and I took an airing this morning in the phoenix park; his head and heart is full of Lord Finly and his niece. — “What a charming couple, Mr. Bradshaw! (cried he “in one of his foppish extasies.) You have ever beheld the girl with a favourable eye; do you think she is unqualified for a coronet “She was born but a few removes, my Lord, ‘‘ (returned 1, with a view to mortify him) from ‘‘ the actual claim to one; and but for the im pediment of a fet of petticoats, would at ** this hour be shouldering you out of possess“ “
Vile Suggestion I (exclaimed he) Every dog should have his day, Bradshaw; and Surely, without vanity, my fun has feme hours yet to run.”
What could one say to Such an old coxcomb?
“I suppose Lady Sarah (resumed he) has told you how Patty Price is filuated: you young fellows, on my word, you are dangerous ac“ “for her; but I trust you have too “much honour and humanity to make unwor thy attempts on so lovely a creature I
I abjure the thought, my Lord (Said I with Some warmth, in order to make an imdrefiion “on his shriyelled heart)! for vou must know, I fufpefit ■ — but let the event Speak for us both; and hope, for the sake of her reputati “on and repose, that it will! be as foreign to “every other breast as mine.” ' — “Though, (ad“ “I, with no weak emphasis) I believe she
« is
8
** is very capable of defending the virtue she ap pears to love, and would palpably feel the ** cruelty and bafeness of that bold wretch that might affront her with propofals.’^
Ah! ah 1 my friend (returned his empty Lordship)! this is very good reason; but not one spark of love — Love is a powerful deity, and frequently hurries his votaries into strange improprieties. Have you not vistted her ?” My Lord r”
I apprehend you, (cried he with an extra“ “wise look); I am impertinently curious;
but you must not be surprised if I imagine “your reserve has a meaning.”
“Your Lordship has my free consent, re plied I) to put whatever construdiion you please upon my forbearing to answer q questi ‘‘ on I can by no means understand.”
Shugburgh dotes upon her (resumed his Lordship, unwilling to part with so delight full a fubjeq:); Lady Sarah and he have had many smart engagements on her account; but “he has too much of the Tar in his nature to “be easily conquered, — and has given her la dyship many rough salutes.”
The phcenix park is seven miles in circumference; judge then what a comfortable ride I must have of it; for I have given you the cream of our conversation.
we returned about three. -- -- His Lordship
pressed me to take a dinner with him; but Lady Sarah was an objest I durst not encounter: the milliner, the journey woman milliner, might have been brought upon the carpet, and I, perhaps, thrown too much off my guard for bob’s
interest; — ■
■
f
0
Miss SOMMER VILE. Zg
interest I, therefore Sauntered home to be cut of harm’s way.
Can you think it extraordinary that idleness, which is the root of evil in general, stoufd mislead my poor unguarded steps? So far from being under a necessity to pass through dartmouth strcet, it was considerably out cf my way. * — I, however, strolled thither, in order to reconnoitre the milliner’s; but had the misfortune to find the shop unfurnished, Save by one single doudy. — I therefore very politically pasted carelessly on, as I was far from wishing to make a fashionable visit, which, you are fensible, is literally contriving to pay your rerpefls to an emptl'iioure.
It is a pity but Mr. Shugburgh would take patty’s cafe into consideration: : elderly gentlemen may do abundance of things with a good grace that we greener Sparks should be hunted down for. She would have been more Safely as well as judiciousty situated in a family; yet, blockhead that I am what family could receive her, without danger to them or herself, if it consisted of husband, father, brother. Son, or even a miserable male domestic?
Suppose you, Harry, who are one of your regular still liv’d mortals, was to take her into your house as a companion for — your lister.
The world, indeed, cannot be so well acquainted with your heart as I am; but I dare believe you incapable of every dishonourable wish, and your understanding would Secure it^res. from all legal impropriety. — No no, it is doux, the time of day for you to be romanticall''^cr of tached. '"tation
As to finly, he is hooked in with a wi^ucrece
nor can I be answerable for consequences: ot mif
■^mploy
90 The H I S T O R Y of
at that age of discretion, when folly is the ripest and most irrestrainable; for what man of five and twenty would submit to be advised??
have such daily instances of absurdities in the conduct of young fellows who have attained the eminence of twenty-one, that I am of opinion, a new regulation in the laws of our mother-country refpedilng minors, would be highly beneficial to the public.
By thirty, indeed, Some little knowledge and experience may be acquired; but the boy is not in any degree shook off when the arrogant, the felf fufficient man is assumed, at the early period that now puts our youths in poffestlon of their wills and fortunes : no other rule of choice for their intimates, than humouring their inclinations; no better view in their pursuits, than gratifying their vanity or ambition; and no worthier purpose in their hearts, than proving them: : lads of Spirit, what must be the profpefi; I of their friends?
For this end their table is overspread with delicacies to pamper the undeserving— — and horses are the grand objects of their care and attention; and ladies of the gayest and most vicious turn, alone the favourite companions of their foster hours. The modest fair ones they industriousty shun, — Insipid lifeless creatures! incapable of admiring the only wit they have any idea ost — Thus they run on from one Scene of prciauchery to another, banishing refledlion by dy S', and stifling rernorfe by irreligion, — until the i fortunes and constitutions are totally de hav^ ed; and the last bed, they can perhaps call haps, own, resigns them, after horror and lan iment, to a miserable grave.
You
 1
You have a Seat in the great house of Britain. - — Improve the hint this letter contains, and, believe me, you will Save many families of dif tinffion in the next generation, from Sinking into oblivion. Thirty is the earliest moment a man ought to be trusted with himself, allowing full four and twenty years for the workings of vanity, the other half dozen for the maturing o reason.
1 am,
LETTER XVIII
Miss Kensington to Miss Carey.
TO give you, my dear Dolly, an idea of the horrid furprise I this morning experienced, I transcribe the letters that occastoned it, and my resteflions in due order and bespeak your most Serious attention.
Miss Price to Miss Kennington.
IT would be making a very ill return for the favours you have conferred upon me, were I to deny you a participation in my pleasures. Read, my dear miss, the enclosed billet-doux, and when you have lamented the power of my charms, lament also the cruel temptation “to which they expose me, — Ah! a Lucrece “would be no Lucrece here! — But do not misemploy

92 The H I S T O R Y of
employ the precious moments! — I hate anti cipation myself; yet — but read, read the epistle, ”
Lord Kennington to miss Price.
(N. B. For your information.)
IS it possible, my pretty sprightly crea j ture! that your present unworthy obscurity ** sit easy upon you? O never, never? your ** heart and countenance cannot correrpcnd;
** but whilst the one is overspread with the most ** captivating Smiles, the other must languish“
“and repine!
As for my part, steep forsakes my pillow :
"to the soft pleasures of tranquillity I have long ** been a stranger : — the effefil is naturalthe cause must be obvious.
“Your good sense surely cannot but secure“
“from stmple prejudices — * Your face! —
“oh I let it be Seen, and Scandal itself will expire! You are accountable to no one for your ** afitions: your relations (if you have any near ** ones), I am persuaded, are a preposterous race “of mortals, whether they have basely abandoned you, or provoked you to renounce their authority. — You was born to command — for tune, admiration, are so entirely. your due,
** that I can only entreat you to assume your rights. — My estate, every faculty of my soul, shall be implicitly devoted to your will; dispose them as you please; they are at present '^ “torment; but, if you will vouchsafe, to “employ them in your Service 1 how unfpeakar “bly happy will they render me!
** I have
/
Miss 8 0 M M E R V I L E. 93
** I have a Sweet house and park at a Small distance from Dublin; they (hall henceforth “be yours. My coach Shall not only convey ** you thither, but remain tor your use. You will find a variety of walks, little rivulets, and delightful shades; to me it will prove a “paradise,. if once furnished with the fairest daughter of the creation!
“Talk not of the world; its stavish customs Suit the grovelling multitude; but you, — you “must despise them,
“Think not of solitude i nor once conceive me capable of leaving you one moment without an agreeable companion. ' sally shall ac company you, attend you. — Music, every “elegant amusement, shall await you. — Then, “do not hesitate;; let tomorrow morning be the commencement of my happiness and “your sovereignty. I shall impatiently expes: your answer, and am,
my dear girps most faithful admirer,
Kennington, ”
miss Price in Continuation.
And what answer do you think I have returned? A proper one. — I hope So, madam. They say every one has an opportunity Sooner or later of making their fortunes; but that an ** opportunity lost is not Soon regained.
‘‘ I beg, Miss Kennington, you will be prepared to render your elf vd’ry entertaining, “obedient, and twenty so forths. — Perhaps a ‘‘ change of circumstances may occasion a change of distosition. — Caprice, wh^sy. — Well, I will torment you as little as postibic,
V i€ for
94 The H I S T O R Y of
“for old acquaintance Sake; but you must not “be offended, my dear, if. I am a little troublesome.
— What a blessed scheme!! -- -- -- -
can you mean Patty? — why not — If ‘‘ you come to that, madam, how can my Lord? i( — to matrimony, it is a dull, heavy, phleg matic institution; the basts of all ill. — wrang lings and discontent would not Suit me. — I “shall be a nominal lady, have a Substantial coach and stx; — and for the rest, you and I ‘‘ will Settle it.
But, alas I alas! you are So demure, I “know not what to think; if you should call me harsh names, or behold me with con tempt, I could never Support it; — but you ‘‘ will be better instructed, and I can have no ‘‘ thing to fear; therefore my baije mains to his lordship; tell him I accept his terms, provi “dead you Surrender yourself as hostage, as the enclosed letter with his Superscription will in form him — and you too, if you are wise e“ “to read it before you Seal it; and con yey it (as I humbly entreat you will) to his toilet, — where he may peruse it at his leisure.
I am, my dear Madam,
your obliged, and affectionate
M. Price.”
But Softly, my friend, — previous to the letter here referred to, I must present you with my wisdom upon the occaston.
No language can describe ray grief and indig na!: ior>! — A fcliioquy was the consequence.
No, I vil! read no more: Unhappy creature, that I am! — what will become of me I but be
assured
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. ' 95
assured I never will descend to Such infamy! — ' be the companion of my lord’s! — He is a monger to propose it! and as to her — well, well, let them rejoice in their iniquity; and may their own consciences be their punishment I — Yet it can never be — am I awake 1 — Oh yes! she is sunk to the lowest ebb of vice; and what renders her peculiarly odious in my Sight, is her attempt to reduce me to the same level. No one palliating circumstance — what an easy prey — solicited, and complying in the Same instant. — No love, no confidence abused— — am so astonished, shocked, and bewildered, I know not what to think! So amiably reserved at Holyhead, — so admired for every valuable endowment. — Mr. Eradshaw, Lord Finly, evidently taken with her as much as my wicked relation. — How could she ever fall so grossly from her integrity? I will never see her more. — I can never believe again. — It is a most Severe and unexpected stroke!
— ■ A paiife — 1 will, however, see her in her most odious light: no doubt but I shall find a cure for the Soft regret her loss occasions me in her answer to the vile proposals— — accordingly opened the letter, which in my rage I had thrown aside, and read as follows:
Miss Price to the Earl of Kennington.
My Lord,
** I think it my duty to put the enclosed *
* to the letter his Lordship Sent her, which (lie takes this method to return; and rebuke his iniolence, by affecting to believe it spurious.
letter
p6 The H I S T O R Y of
letter into your lordlhip’s hands; and am no << less shocked than concerned to find myself in *« the same country with So daring a rascal“
“you may be able, either from the « style or characters, to guess the author. — Can any punishment be too Severe for him? — « What I assume a name of Such distindlion for “no better a purpose than affronting and terrifying a poor unhappy fugitive! — But I will think no more of it: I know myself Secure of your lordship’s generous protodlion and favour; and flatter myself they will never be forfeited by any effort of malice or wilful impropriety“
“cooler consideration: : you was to commit the letter to the flames, and “let the memory of it perish with it; for in « chastifing the villain you would, too probably, ** expose yourself to danger; for there is no audacious or perfidious attempt that I cannot « conceive Such a wretch to be capable of.
The share is intended less for my virtue than person: : must be an arrant kidnapper, «« and would sell me to Some of the plantations.
I am, my Lord,
with all due gratitude and Submission, your lordship’s obedient Servant,
M. P.”
Are you not agreeably surprised, my good girl, at this turn? A thousand pound weight has been removed by it from my heart — Had she proved the creature I aprrehended, how desert and forlorn this country in my estimation I but
cheated
 7
cheered and amused by her innocent vivacity, my life, my happiness, will derive new vigour; and 1 shall be able to Subscribe myself, as of
1 a i C >
Your well contented friend.
ia '•♦S’* AN A. ’
LETTER XIX
Lord Kennington to Mrs. Bateman. Madam,
I Am sorry to hear of your disappointment;
but you may depend upon my ussng my best endeavours to reinstate you in your office. A lady of your merit and good nature can never want friends; and I again repeat, you may rely upon my warmest interest.
Apropos to the fubjeq; of good nature; you remember our little fellow voyager Patty Price, whom we were all inclined to conceive the highest opinion of. — In faq:, madam, we were deceived, as to her family and connedfions: — she appears to be only an industrious member of the community, at whose shop such pretty ladies as Mrs. Bateman may furnish themselves with a bundance of becoming ornaments, as ribbons, caps, Szc.
Nevertheless, I must acknowledge myself one of her very great, admirers, and should rejoice in every opportunity of countenancing and Serving her. N.
vol. L F ■ But
98 Thp history of
But she is the oddest creature — So wrapped up in reserves, and So apprehensive of male civility, that it is impossible to gratify the benevolent wish of my heart without your assistance.
What can be deny’d to friendship? — Obfervel me well. — I request you to oblige me no longer I than you find your account in it. |
Accommodate yourself to her humour: letj her be a frequent visitant at your house, and bej assured that house shall be a treasure to you. Ifj she accepts your invitations, and I should sometimes interrupt your tete a tete^ could it be offen l five to either of you? — .Ladies are seldom displeased at a little gallantry; especially when tbet gallant is a man of figure and honour, |
Should this proposal chime in with your inclinations, I shall expefl; to be favoured withal line. Your own good sense will point out tbel impropriety of my being known on this OC' cafion.
I am, your humble Servant,
Kennington.
LETTER XX
Mrs. Bateman to Lord Kennington. My Lord,
The unexpedled favour of your Lordship: letter was a cordial to my heart. — I wai upon the brink of a precipice, and knew noti means of escaping.
Ohlijf
' 9
Oblige your Lordship! Can my patron, my preserver, doubt me? — ^ You have restored me to hope and happiness, yet condescend to solicit, where you ought and shall ever command.
I will go this afternoon to the pretty creature and pay my compliments; and do flatter myself, that my abilities and industry will be both judiciousty and Successfully employed in your lordship’s cause.
The Secret was not Safer in your own breast, than it shall ever remain in that of.
My Lord,
your lordship’s most obliged, grateful, and dutiful humble Servant,
Bateman.
'If WWWWWWW V WWWWWWWW
LETTER XXL
Lord Kennington to Mrs. Bateman.
TFIANKS, thanks, my dearest madam!
ten thousand thanks for your agreeable acquiescence! though you cannot, at present, be aware of the difficult talk you have undertaken.
I am already formidable in patty’s light. — Rank, fortune, Splendour, are with her empty Sounds; nor does meanness appear to be more her birthright than voluntary eledston.
Be it your business to inspire her with diflfer ent Sentiments: the heart that is unfusceptible
Fa of
10
of vanity and ambition, must be invincible to the nicest or most Subtle attacks of gallantry. Where vanity is wanting, flattery loses its charms; and what estimation would the unambitious Set Tjpon a necklace of diamonds r
However, you may take it from me, no character was ever complete: the foible, the foible discovered, and the clue is obtained. But application cannot Sit easy upon a fair lady, unless the prize is sufficiently attractive. ■ — Your patent will be made out in a few days • and in the interim accept of the enclosed note. I will take a dish of chocolate with you in a morning or two: and
am, c.
Kennington.
P. S.
I think it would not a little promote our bust nefs, if you was to affect a wonderful kindness for my niece: they are romantically attached to each other. Favour their interviews; they will be useful. Adieu.
LETTER XXII
Miss Price to mlss Keknikgton.
T Have had a vliit, my dear madam,, from 1^ Mrs. Bateman : upon my word, she is a rriost excellent creature! never was I treated with
more
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. loi
more tenderness and civility in my whole fife.
She gently chid me for my want of confidence in her. — “To conceal yoiirfelf (said she) from the gentlemen’s knowledge, or even the “haughty i^ady sarah’s, was both natural and ** commendable; but tell me, my good girl, what could deter you from entrusting me. — “My manner is, indeed, giddy; but, I hope, not overbearing or forbidding.”
I knew not well how to excuse myself: thus the overfcrupiilous are ever creating difficulties for themselves.
We were strangers, indeed; but the Similarity of our sex, and her apparent good nature, were undeniable motives to a contrary conduo. My apology, weak and insufficient as it was, however, met with a kind reception.
“One or two concefficns (said she agreeably) “and your peace is made. — No reserves for the future. — Give me the pleasure of your com“ “at every ieiture interval, and let your es teciti, yottf friendship, be mine.”
I would have returned a Suitable compliment; but she prevented me. — We are friends, now, “(relumed she) — and all past negledls shall be “sunk in oblivion. — When did you see your “great and deserved favourite Miss Kenning“ “We three will be all the world to each “other; nor shall 'I be happy until we have had a meeting in order to unite us.”
Could anything be more agreeable, more acceptable in our circumstances? I cannot visit at your house with cordial Satisfadiion. — My lord’s confident looks Seem to reproach me with aibing improperly; — nor ought I to behold him even
F 3 with
102 The H I S T O R Y of
with affesied toleration, though the price of friendship and happiness.
At Mrs. bateman’s we Shall be perfe£ily at our ease; especially if that good Mr. Shugburgh will be of our party. — For his sake alone have I any remaining charity for the masculine gender, they So aptly refenible the beasts of prey,. Seeking whom they may devour.
I beg your pardon, my Sweet girl; the youth who possesses an extraordinary share of your approbationis of a very different Species. — But,, believe me, his friends are neither of them very harmless, notwithstanding the pretty colours they at present assume.
How stngularly am I circumstanced? Lord Kennington intreats, and Lord Finly Sighs with much the same success— — yet, like Atalanta, I could grieve at the necessity of leaving the latter behind.
Never was man more engaging. — His heart = — was not made for me; therefore I need not trouble myself to diffedt it.
— A very likely story, truly, that this same figure of mine should So far bewitch his senses, that rather than not obtain the favour of my hand, he should madly comply with the horrid institution of matrimony, and be yoked for life to So unsuitable a mate!
As it is imposhble for me to entertain so preposterous an expedlation, I hope you will allow, I ought to avoid all intercourse with so agreeable an object.. Mr. Bradshaw, nay, with the earl of Kennington, my heart is Safe; but I am undone if I converse too frequently with Lord Finly.
A
Miss S O M M E R V T L E. 103
A tale pleases or difpleases, derives reputation or disreputation, in a great measure, from the place its relator holds in our estimation; and I can fensibly feel the deference my treacherous ears are inclined to pay to all his arguments. — He is, indeed, my dear madam, a dangerous person, and shall be avoided, — We will seek and centre all our felicity in our meeting, at Mrs. bateman’s.
I am, c.
LETTER XXIII
Miss Kennington to Mils Price.
A Most whimstcal Scene, my dear Patty, have I been engaged in.
My uncle, gay as a lark, was on the tiptoe of pleassng expediation all this morning, from having most luckily overlooked your cruel answer to his generous epistle.
He fetched a violent compass, in order to feel rny pulse“ “I love retirement? Was I ca pable of renouncing the elupty pleasures of a “city, for the latisfadiion of friendship— — “la true sense of gratitude, duty; and did I “possess a single Spark of benevolence? There “was no request he could deny me. — Put him to “the proofhalf his fortune; ' — a reconcilia “tion with his greatestenemy — a pilgrimage —
I was very fensible of his motive for these fine professions, and deemed it justifiable to take him
F 4 in
10
in his own toils. It was an unpremeditated, but happy thought.
** Your Lordship is amazingly good, (said I) ** to furnish me with So unhoped for an opportunity of communicating an humble wish.” But notwithstanding my request was the re fuk of accident, his compliance with it was certainly predetermined, as an efsedlual bribe to win me to his purpose.
I tremble at my own timidity, now it is over! though at the junsiure, I was surprisingly supported. I, however, hesttated, and was unable to proceed.
Allons! (cried he) — now’s your time: —
you have no displeasure to apprehend -- ”
Thus encouraged, I ventured to lift up my eyes. You had a brother, sir, (resumed 1) he was my father; — but not ray only parent. — ** How happy would your Lordship render many ** hearts, by graciousty overlooking the only er“ “of his life! and Suffering his widow to receive the benefit of the living he enjoyed, the ** advowson of which, by his decease, devolves to « your lordship.”
“Your quickness and filial affedfion, (replied ** he, uncommonly elated, as if I had hit the very ** point) though against myself, 1 most highly approve. — My standish! be it as you desire ** your mother, henceforth my acknowledged relation, chooses to Sell her interest in it for a handsome gratuity. That point she ** you must settle. Thus do I resign all right and title to her during her life.”
And now, Sally (putting the paper into my
hands)
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 105
hands) I hope I have Some claim to your indulgence? —
At this instant the door opened, and Mr. Squib presented him your unwelcome piece of Satire. You may conceive, that I removed myself instantly, from the double motive of avoiding a gathering storm, and Securing that independence for the best of mothers I never had the least prospect or idea, until that blessed moment, of obtaining.
My chief anxiety is now at an end. I never, Patty, felt one cruel effect of dependence myself, unaggravated by the recolle^ion, .that the tenderest relation I have upon, earth; is reduced to the Same miserable state.
Common calamities may be excluded when the world is shut out; — the.lofs of friends Supported by the reste£uon, that a day of reunion awaits us; nay, the bed of sickness, Smoothed by the hand of a hireling, st. nurse, when the sheltering roof is the. sufferer’s property; — but dependence comprehends whatever the thought can reach : — The soul is compelled to put on ~ trammels, and assume inclinations foreign to its own., dictates, at the same time that it is labouring to fuppress those that are genuine : nor does the talk end here. — The lips must impart the ill dissembled language; — the eyes, the every feature, lend their assistance to cover the deceit, whilst the self confli6l is hardly Sustained; — and. the breast is torn by unutterable anguish.
Mr. Shugburgh met me in the lobby, .as. I was bearing off my prize. — lglweiyou.joy, ** my good girl (Said he).’’
F 5, You
io   of
‘‘ You have overheard us, then sir; have I “not reason to rejoice ?”
No, child; (replied he) my information extends not beyond that pretty countenance; the stniles and graces with which it is now “overspread, are too unusual to escape observa“ “— vshy are you not as happy as deserving of happiness?? may I alk you the cause
Favour me only, sir, (returned I) with one half hour’s conversation, and 1 will conceal nothing from you.”
How the benevolent creature was delighted and astonished! I did not expose his lordship’s base view; therefore, in the overflowings of this valuable friend’s partiality, I had the merit of ef fedling this extraordinary business by the force of my very amiable and irresistible acccmplilh ments.
I was sensible the moment I beheld you, “(said he) that my lord’s heart must be fumu ed: there is no withstanding such persuasive loveliness— — has, indeed, a few foibles ** that obscure the virtues of his character; but his nature, you find, is neither obdurate nor unrelenting.”
I affeqed to acquiesce with this worthy man’s sentiment, and honoured the double mistake his own gocdnefs led him into, refpediing Lord ken nington’s virtue, and his niece’s lovely perfuafton\ and, giving him the paper, begged he would endeavour to meet with an early and Safe opportunity of conveying it to England. j
It will pay an express, (said the good manjil we cannot too Soon relieve a suffering mind; « I will about it instantly.”
My
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 107
My lord’s bell was now rung in that peculiar manner that bespeaks petulance or fury. — I was not without my apprehenssons; — but bow were they encreased when a Servant informed me that I was the person rung for I
According to Marmontel, however, my mother supported me.
Oh, my mother! — It is her cause, and I will not forsake it! — My courage again failed me, when I reached the door of the apartment. — Away, timidity! my mother’s deliverance from dependence is at stake; and she shall find, that on Such an occaston, her daughter is a heroine!
My Lord was meastiring the room with discomposed steps. — Could you have pitied him?
“Any commands for me, sir, ” (demanded I, with the utmost humility).
He bit his lips. — << You have taken care of that paper ?” said he.
“Undoubtedly, my Lord; I considered it as too great a treasure for me to possess; and “therefore — ”
What has the fool (k>ne ?” — cried he pettishly. “I put it into Mr. shugburgh’s hands, “(replied the poor Sarah) who thinks he can ** never Sufficiently extol Such noble generosity!” !” “have been very hasty; (Said he) but ** no matter. — I beg it may go no further at present“
“am Sorry (returned I, with amazing cout rage) it is not in my power to oblige your Lordship; but Mr. Shugburgh left me imme “diately on receiving it, in order to dispatch it by an express; and I imagine, by this time, — He rubbed his forehead, endeavoured to force a Smile. — “Your zeal is both natural and commendable;

}
los   of
mendable; (Said he) but harkee! you Sally [ “I beg 1 may tell it my own way to Lady sa rah.”
Depend upon it, sir, (replied I, with the utmost compliance, as I found the tempest was flying away) I will never mention it to any one without your permission.” (A mental reservation in favour of you, Patty, by whose means I have obtained it.)
What a soul the man must have! — How do I despise— — Soft, my pen I my dear good father was his brother I He, it is true, sunk the re latioii. — I will, nevertheless, Spare him; therefore must conclude.
Yours, as usual,
S.. Kennington.
LETTER XXIV
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
qtil L harping upon my daughter! and so ^ Harry, you are determined to perfist in the ridiculous notion of my being in love.
To be Sure, as you say, it would be an ugly bufinefi, if I was to fufler my inclinations to be engaged by no body knows who, on so slight an acquaintance too.
But what is all this same, that you make Such a bustle about? or what avails the longest intimacy with a beloved object? I thought you had known that the blind can distinguish no more
of
Miss S O M M E R V I LE. 109
of the Sun in Seven Succeeding years than one ssn gle instant. — I could name you Several persons in your neighbourhood, who took as much time and pains to be deceived in the dispcsttions of their chosen brides, as you could destre, — one, four; a Second, six; and a third, by much the wisest of them all, full fourteen winters: — yet never were there greater dupes; never were pairs So unequally matched.
The cause, I acknowledge, is obscure, and may, without offence to your wisdom, have escaped your observation. — Attend, therefore, the unravelling.
In a ssngle state, both male andtemale have one and the Same point in view, — pleasing each other. For this they dress, they study, they chat,, they visit. — An agreeable object strikes our fancies; a thousand and a thousand beauties are discovered at every renewed interview : — the ladies affe6l to hide : — it is our bustnels boldly to Seek occastons of drawing them out. — The invention is exercised; — the expedlation kept alive; and the whole Scene is busy and delightful.
At least', this is the cafe, where delicacy and fenstbility are not wanting.
With the inffpid, the interested, cc. matters are othervvise cond'udied; the friends of the one, the conveniences of the other, stimulating the union.
That unhappiness should result from hstleff nels or selfishness, is by no means Surpristng; but how shall we account for its being equally the lot of the judicious and Sentimental.
This, Harry, I apprehend to be the cause.
The bustnefs at an end, a dead calm Succeeds;
no   of
ceeds; affechon still glows in the heart, but the show of it eeases.
Distance and reserve is exchanged for honest familiarity; and duty usurps the place of voluntary kindness.
The man pursues his occupation with renewed vigour his better half will be benefited no less than himself.
But madam sees things with very different eyes. — And can you leave me for so long a period; unmindful of my amusement; unmindful of my capacity for amusing— — person— — conversation, are their charms diminished? — Alas I what gainer am I by renouncing the whole, world for you!
He Sooths, he flatters her for a time; but the same dull tale, the same senseless complaints, are so frequently repeated, that at length, his home becomes utterly distasteful to him; which, by a different behaviour and apleafing variety, would have been his highest happinesh
You tell me I argue upon wrong principles, when I give understanding to Such a mate; — but, believe me, 'Harry, your Sensible women are the hardest to deal with of any upon earth, as they really merit much; but require a homage that human nature cannot pay.
I love the Sex, their pretty faces; their
happy language; — their genuine wit, their agreeable vivacity, all, all have their due weight in my estimation : — but I cannot digest the peculiarities they are fubjefit to.
The workings of children’s fancies how delightful! their little finesse — their variableness of temper, their love of power, their impatience of control, I have frequently amused myself
whole
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. hi
whole hours in observing: — nay, I can Some times divert my fell with the whimsical and mischievous tricks of a monkey; — but, for the soul of me, I cannot patiently tolerate the season of discretion in either the one or the other.
Miis Kennington and Miss Price, as being freer from folly than the generality of their sex, are high in my good graces; but paris’s talk was an easy one,, in compariibn of what I should experience, if they were to become competitors for any prize in my arbitration.
Miss Kennington and Miss Price have been the beginning and end of all my epistles Since my acquaintance with them; but read them over once again, and tell me which of them fills up the largest Space? — Then, if you can, per fist in your infidelity; for I am resolved to honour no more nonfense with my notice.
Mrs. Bateman is for ever at my Lord ken nington’s. — Something, I am persuaded, is in the wind. It is true he has Served her upon an occasion of the utmost consequence to her interest; — but I think her gratitude is overstrained. — I must get footing at her house, or all will not be well.
Apropos. — There she goes for the Park; — a lone too : your pardon Harry; but the opportunity is too precious to be lost.
# ^ %
Just returned; the walk was pleasant; the conversation highly important.
This widow is one of your very good-natured, your very obliging women, who, from not committing
11
mitting vice themselves, have it the more in their power to missead the unwary.
I am Sorry; no, I am very glad Patty Price has made Such an acquaintance; (he will have an opportunity of Seeing a great deal of the world at her house;; I, perhaps, be enabled to discover her real inclinations.
Am I not a busy, friendly fellow, to keep such a sharp look out for the unthankful; for 1 dare believe Lord Finly is So thoroughly persuaded I am his rival, that there is no service I could render him that wouldbe acceptable.
You are Satisfied with my eonducl, it seems, refpefllng Bob— — my good boy; your heart is not avaricioufly bent; nor have you any objection to receiving a girl of merit into your family, notwithstanding she will be a dead weight upon your estate.
But I believe we must get you to carry your generosity a little farther, and make overtures to my Lord; for I am So gay, and your brother so bashful, - — that what the one could say would be disregarded, whilst the other would be incapable of opening his lips.
— Defend me, I say, from your Soft entan -- glements.
Morn..
Lord Finly is in the dumps; and, according to bob’s wise Sentiments, not without reafcn. What felf tormentors these love fick mortals are!
Mrs. Bateman, overcome by my eloquence the other morning, promised to gwe me an invitation whenever Patty Price was to be next at her hcufe; and, like a woman of honour, yesterday

s.
Miss SOMMER VILE. t15
terday noon Sent me a card : Miss Kennington was likewise to be of the party. What a flame we should have had our young Spark in, if he had been worthy to receive that piece of information! — But your pardon, Bobby, (Said I “mentally, when I read the particulars) I must “not introduce you into Such dangerous company“
“bold fellows, (Said Lord Finly, with sffumed gaiety) are never out of your way.
I cannot imagine how you brought this “matter to bear, especially as we are neglect“ “? — Could not you contrive to edge us in ?”
‘‘ Excuse me. Sir; (returned I) let every one ‘‘ thrive by his own abilities: If I have a brazen ‘‘ front, you have a tender heart; — and Bob,
« — why, faith, he has no heart at all.”
“You exult. Sir ?” Said his Ample Lordship, with a careless felf approving air. — Not I,
“Sir; (returned your Bradshaw) I am only a ht tie merrily disposed, and arn Sorry It does not « hit your humour. — If you, "
mands, you may liltrust rtie; — ^ I will faith“ “execute them.” Set a fox (Said the fly Bob) to watch the geese. Hah, fiply He is your Friend Mr. Fleetwood, returrt ed his Lordship most emphatically) or he would not be mine.”
Is not Lord Finly a very dignified personage??
natured pleasure is not with me a natural feeling: — • I, however, experienced it upon this occasion. — Down I sat, hummed a tune,
‘‘ Before I was in love, oh, every month was May 1” They trod on each other’s toe; — I arose abruptly, — laughed, — put on. my Sword,
— took
u4 The H I S T O R Y of
— took a fide view of myself in the glass.. perfectly satisfied, and Sallied forth.
But, shall I acknowledge it, Harry; — sofar from fpending rhe happy evening I expected, I found the widow" alone, and in dishabille.
She rallied me unmercifully on the awkward figure I made upon the occasion, and showed me a card of excuse the ladies had sent her. — That old wife coxcomb had detained them for his own amusement; and Finly was amply revenged,
for my idle gaiety. -- -- -- I most certainly deserved
it, — was it my business, by officiously intruding to interrupt their felicity.
I am, Harry, much yours,
F. Bradskw,
^ F T T E R XXV
i
Lady Sarah Kennington to Miss Turner. Dear tur ner.
T AUGH if you are wise shall be the motto I — * of this epistle; but how poorly shall I be capable of describing, by the dull tedious characters that fall from the pen, what deserves the utmost strength and glow of verbal representation.
The adventurer is detedled; — her affeflati on, her hypocrisy exposed to public view : she
appears,
I
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 115
appears, I assure you, in no less a character than Mrs. trueman’s journey woman.
I own I was rather infested with the ridiculous fancies of my company; an enchanted castle, a dwarf, -- -- and distressed damsel, would. Sometimes,
confusedly present themfetves to my imagination; — but the milliner’s shop was beyond my utmost conception.
A crowd of carriages in dartmouth street op posing my passage, I was alarmed, and wished to alight; but, easting my eyes into a shop, appre hension soon gave place to exultation : there she sat, upon her throne, Surrounded with ribbons, and the whole frippery eye traps for the vulgar, these inferior class of traders Spread to allure their inferior customers.
You have Seen her confused: — but this was neither your noble nor your Soft confuston; it arose from conscious meanness.
I am not callous; — a ray of pity stole upon my heart; but instantly reco!le<sting the state of Suffering She affected to be cast into, by S
iyhead frolic, L yieioea to ine oiciates'br right reason, and triumphed in her humiliation.
Well, this preposterous Scene was of short duration. — Home flew I: — she, perhaps, sought her miserable garret, to give the proud torrent vent, which was with difficulty restrained during my presence.
My father’s horses are in excellent case; but could not keep pace with my wishes and imagination. — I related every particular about a rpillion of times in idea, between dartmouth street and college green, — when, at length, I was enabled to revel in the adfual and delightful talk to an unhoped-for audience.
My
»
ii   of
My Lord and Mr. Shugburgh dined at the Castle; — Sarah and I, had been solitary companions, over a hastily difpatch’d meal: — and I had no other expectation at my return, than finding her, in her usual still life, prepared to ssinper or veep, as occasion rtlight require. Judge, then, of my agreeable Surprise, when the opening door presented to my view the charming Bradshaw and inoffenstve Fleetwood.
I resolved to break my intelligence upon them all at once, intermixed with a due portion of satire upon that fellow Frank, for betraying fiich chagrin at her abrupt departure. But as it is impostlble to write the staring eyes, gaping mouths, and agitating pashons of the faces 1 beheld, 1 will forbear giving you the express terms I made use of; let it Suffice till we meet that I mortified them Sufficiently.
Bcb, half petrified with astonishment, lost the power of utterance; — Sarah hung dowa her head in difconfolation; — - but Bradshaw, the C is hateful to ijisl
WHS lo da.'iiig as to profess the highest approbation for her, even in he* Sallen state, and entered into a warm odious dispute relative to the fitness or unfitness cf bestowing any future countenance upon her.
I could not tolerate the wretch in his perverse meanness, if my father was not as strangely infatuated; for, notwithstanding the particulars I have mentioned, the low thing has had the artifice to impose herself upon him, for a very worthy and consequential perscn,
What can lier pride and arrogance end In I **' Being kept, I hope; for, provided we can but
wasn our hands of her, no niatter for the means.
An
- _’t '
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 117
An odd conceit strikes me : — is Mr. Gravity should have a month’s mind to her — you know what professions he made at the tavern from whence she so genteelly strayed, — it would be excellent. Your Sailors are the best dupes in nature; — and then he is Such a Sentimental blockhead, that her speciousness must work upon him.
I will erase Cork from the globe that is now at my elbow; — - yet, unoffending city, thy plea is just; the cause that Separated Miss Turner and me, not the place of her detention, is the proper object of my disgust: : be it as it may. So capricious is human nature, that I cannot be per fesuy in charity even with thee, until she is restored to me.
Your Sister is not the thing: — gay and entertaining indeed; — but without gall; — to laugh is the only joy she is capable of tasting. — — I allow it is a very eligible exercise of the mind; but is most delightful when agreeably contrasted. The brow that never knew a frown, was not formed to command: and your permanent grin is rather habitual than heartfelt.
I am, in all events, convinced that I shall have a very unfatisfa6lory time of it during your absence;; my father’s house, that was wont to be the resort of the polite, and the seat of amusement, is now become a common receptacle for trumpery and rubbish; — but depend upon it, I will not look tamely on for any considerable time: my rights and privileges shall either be restored to me, or I will bid adieu to Dublin, papa, and all papa’s preposterous favourites.
You and I will take a trip to England, show away agreeably to our own inclinations. — .I
have
n8 The H I S T O R Y of
have a private hoard that will answer our pur. pose; and we will most certainly give them the slip upon Suitable provocation.
I am, c
* 2 ^ ** * A •
«.^««oc6o«‘^^*odoo»'^^»oooo**^$” OOOO” ^'»0OOO “5^ “OOOO” ^‘«oooo'»^*»ol!)oo'»^'»o66o'>$^'»00mf^=
t: s: ss
LETTER XXVI
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
YOU remember, Harry, the mortified (late your last accounts left me in; but m matter, we will no longer tread in Such trife Several days elapsed before my haughty refenl.) ment, respecting Lady Sarah, began in any degree to subside;; — at length, I condescended, with great humility, to make the first ovei ture for revisiting at Lord kennington’s.
You need not doubt bob’s readiness to coraplj with So agreeable a proposal. It was, indeed, with much difficulty that I had prevailed upoi him not to be outrageous at my absenting myfel, notwithstanding I promised, as soon as postib!e, tt resume my former conduct and complaifancefe his convenience.
But it is proper you should be made acquainted, in the first instance, with the pains I have talei to render myself Serviceable to this hot headei Lord Finlv.
You well know my favourable Sentiments el
^_ •/ j
Patty Price; I was, however, almost wicte
enougi
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 119
enough to wish, for the sake of bob’s friend, that some circumstance might reach my knowledge of such a nature as to disengage his affections. You will allow, Harry, that there was more of baseness than love in this particular.
To this end, and in Spite of your wisdom, to this end alone, I resolved to make her a private visit.
I found her when unadorned, adorned the mojl. — How often must I repeat, she is a charming creature!
She received me politely; I am indebted to Lady Sarah for this compliment.
That I have some obligations to that lady I must acknowledge, as I obtained a piece of information from her, which you was so cruel as to refuse me; but could you conceive it possible to elude my vigilance? —
Forgive, ssr, (said she) if I interrupt you in order to fet you right, • with refped to me. I shall ever remember the indulgence of the company I was cast in on the other fide the water, with the utmost gratitude, not with“ “I have dearly paid for it Since my ar“ “in Dublin. It is true I wished to conceal “myself from the knowledge of all the gentle men, as their gallantry could no longer be an' ‘‘ innocent amusement for me; and their very genteel treatment must, of course, terminate with my passage.”
“That view, (continued she) was frustrated; “but I do hope lliat my Situation will not expose me to any undue liberties. — My sense of pro ‘‘ priety is rather quickened than diminished by “their conversation;; can I be easily impof “ed upon, either as to my own charaqer or
* “that
12
“that of another’s. Kindness and civility will “ever be grateful to me; but the language that exceeds those limits I ought not to listen to. — A little shop woman, no longer your fellow“ “— do not lose sight of that circum stance, and you and I, sir, shall be on proper terms.”
What entreaties did I not use in order to prevail upon her to forego her reserve • — remained immoveable; — bewitching obfcinacy! it operated more strongly upon my soul than all her former conduq.
Had you but Seen her lovely humility, her charming adherence to her worthy resolution!! — irrefistibly she confined my behaviour and expreshons to the rules she thought fit to prescribe, — like me, you would have — but you are a Saucy rafeal; and may guess my Sentiments.
I took my leave with the utmost refpeo:, and begged her to permit me to renew my visit, even on her own hard conditions.
She politely intimated that it was requisite for her to be very tender of appearances; — - gentlemen were dangerous visitors for a young woman so critically situated— — the world was both an indefatigable and ill natured observer— — she would rely upon my discretion.
Thus, you perceive, I was but very little the better for my wife Scheme. — v/hat measures Lord Finly means to pursue I know not; but I think it is pretty clear that he will be horribly disappointed.
I wish it was possible to learn who she really is? — Discretion, modest reterve and amiable humility, are the gifts of nature; but an improved
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 122
proved understanding, refined taste, and elegant manners are, alone, the effects of a genteel and judicious education.
I have no great faith in the marvellous in general; but, in this particular, am more than half inclined to form great expeflations. suppose
you was to inquire, -- -- -- -- her family cannot be
obscure; or, if it is, what encouragement for young women to conduq; themselves with prudence. No person on earth is so despicable but may lift themselves into confequenee by a due attention to propriety; especially, K in poffesti on of the Smallest portion of beauty or youth.
What a pretty lesson of instruflion could I, now deal out to a whole troop of females, destitute of provision, and exposed to difficulties. Instead of over dressing their not unengaging figures to be warpt by giddy vanity, and inviting that attention from us that is too commonly their bane; if, like Patty, — but neither my letters nor her example can be useful to them; as the one will be confined to your perusal, .the knowledge of the other to the small circle of her acquaintance.
I have miserably digressed : -- however, as I
told you in the beginning of my .letter, I dangled Bob to Lord kennington’s, in order to throw myself once more in patty’s way, (that is really something beyond what I intended to communicate; but let it pafs) not judging it convenient, (for I will finish my blundering Sentence) by too quick a return upon her in dart mouth street, to exclude myself for ever from her sight.
My artifice, Harry, was not successful; we received, indeed, ah invitation for tomorrow
vol. I. G evening
t
12
evening. « A Select party, ” Said his Lordflilp
looking fignificantly. 1 am, therefore
tempted to conclude she will be there : if I am right, it will prove an agreeable visit; other wise, what a Sacrifice of time to dullness, folly, and insipidity??
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- — -- -- -- -- -- -- -^
LETTER XXVI
Miss Kennington to miss Carey.
FOR once, my dear Dolly, I have had the resolution to Suffer without complaint; but I fear my heroism would have deferred me, if the calamity had been of much longer continuance : it is, however, happily past, ani now mention it merely for your amusement.
Mr. Fleetwood had in a manner forsaken us, and the uneasiness I endured is not to be deferib ed. In what could I have offended him? from whence his disgust?? for ever the unavailing inquiry of my heart.
But this morning I was most agreeably surprised by his coming to our house with a countenance that bespoke the Softest, the kindest sentiments; nor was his absence, lam convinced, a voluntary one.
I ashed after Lord Finly, for patty’s Sake. His grandfather was buried only last week, and he has not yet made himself public.
 23
My uncle has shook off his chagrin, and Seems resolved to improve the hint Patty furnished him with, refpe6ling the letter; I both honour and rejoice in his discretion.
Lady Sarah affeq; ed to look Scornfully upon Mr. Bradshaw; but he is blessed with an easy confidence and pleasing vivacity that Soon charmed away her ill humour.
Fleetwood was jostled at so unfortunate a distance, as not to have it in his power to say one tender thing. Speaking features on Such anoc casion are highly advantageous.
My uncle, in order to come at Lord Finly, whose stridl observance of decency he had more than once thought proper to condemn, prepofed a private party for tomorrow evening. — None “but friends (Said he) will be thereand, notwithstanding it may be inconststent for his Lord ihip to show his face at the playhouse, he can have no objedfion to .giving us his company.
The gentlemen promised to use their interest with him, and took their leave Soon after.
My uncle was then pleased to enter into the merits of Lord finly’s characier and fortune, enjoining me to leave no art unpradufed to hook him in. A very delicate attempt I must confess.
I long to see Patty, to laugh over the trick she has put upon the old beau : — yet, I wish there may not be Some evil design couched under his seeming acquiescence. — I shall observe, if possible, to counterwork all his steps.
What a busy life I lead! — I am an arrant Spy. — Now Self, now friendship is predomi
G 2 nant.
J
12
nant, and my vigilance is equally exercised the one as the other.
I hope Patty will not be forgotten upon occasson; for it was my lord’s positive opin that she was ..qualified to participate polite tirement. I know not how to lay her in, would drop Something at dinner, by way of morandum You shall hear more of me morrow.
Mors
Imagine me now drawn forth to the bed vantage, traversing the drawing-room, — rustling of Silks — Lady Sarah an elegant figi but Somewhat of the largest. My Lord K nington, your Servant — How I abhor unnatu Smells. — His Lordship is peculiarly high fceni, today.
Mr. Shugburgh has all the hearty fubflani appearance of a country gentleman. He is ■gainer by what my Lord deems want of polis for if his majesty wished to prevent his mofti veterate enemy with a galling picture of theeai plenty, and benevolence of this nation — let V Shugburgh be the model, and that wish wot be accomplished.
A coach! — The modesty of that rap tells ti it must be Patty. “Bless me! (Said I) what “pretty quaker you make! you are an excelki “copyest of the Sober fedl!”
“An accidental one, madam, (returned llif “I had no design to assume a false appeal
ance.”
“Miss Patty, (Said my Lord) is determine
not to shine with borrowed lustre, and dof
“jiillio
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 125
«« jiiftice to nature, by permitting her to be viewed
in her highest perfe^iion.”
It is plain, (returned the Smiling vshugbiirgh)
« that Patty piques herself rather upon her un “derstanchng than person; but nc one can charge “her with neglecting the one, when she dis “plays the other.”
Lady sarah’s countenance changed with indignation; but she was compelled to receive her modest'falute with Seeming approbation.
Another carriage whth Servants, in mourning!
— nay, then, they are come all together, and my uncle will be Satisfied.
Patty blushed exceedingly when Lord Finly entered the room. — His eyes instantly met hers;
— be bowed refpectfully, and, having returned the civilities of!; e company, drew his chair close to mine, in hopes to have had Some conversation with the good girl.
He was disappointed in his Scheme; for my worthy uncle never ceased tormenting her with idle Speeches, from the double motive of gratifying his own inclinations, and favouring Lord finly’s audrefs to me.
It was, upon the whole, a most perverse and formal evening; yet, as being introductory to future happy interviews, might be supported.
The gentlemen offered to fet Patty home, as, they had a vacant seat; my relation did not quite relish the proposal, from mean apprehensions.
Patty urged the impropriety of her accepting such an honour; — the debate ran high, when Mr. Shugburgh determined it tosher entire fa lisfaction.
“I will take her under my convoy (said he.)
G 3 Lfet
12 ,
Let a coach be called; my little friend cas ** have no obje6iion.” I
The perplexity of her countenance was in. stantly dispelled— — took her hand, and bore her off triumphantly.
Lord Finly and Mr. Bradshaw could ill diges! their disappointment;; prudence andneceffitj taught them resignation |
night Dolly ‘this morn began in hopcij — the eve declines! it droops! it dies 1 i
j
I
I
1
I
-- -- -- -- 0- — — -- -- -- -- -- - — II
i
LETTER XXIX
Lady Sarah Kennington to Miss
Turner.
1
Lord Kennington has at length, my dear Miss Turner, indulged his folly completely; | our drawing-room, fit for the reception of a polite emperor, was last night dedicated to the ignoble purpose of entertaining a little shop woman.
That mean creature Sarah, was in her element; mother’s own daughter, I suppose: yet the reflediion is unjust; for, could she claim the earl of Kennington for her father, her grovelling sentiments would in that refpedi be unchanged, Mr. Bradshaw appeared to uncommon advantage his deaths (though that merit might be his taylor’s) were elegant; but. i’ll affure you, his behaviour was odiousty provoking. Mils Patty was the queen of the company,
and
 27
and received their homage with that affected humility that ever covers artifice and presumption.
My father lived but by her fide; Mr. shug burgh’s approbation of her was unbounded; Lord Finly was incapable of beholding any other
objeqjt — and the handsomest- -- --
most ridiculous fellow in the universe, appeared only ambitious of laying his heart at her feet— — comfortable Scene, you will say, for a woman of my Spirit and feelings!
I Supported myself to a miracle: England! England I and Miss Turner I were the cordials I had recourse to, .as occasion required.
Besides, you must understand I have formed a scheme of undermining, their happinest. — I
will Set my father on fire: he conceives his
fine niece to be the objedi of Lord finly’s admiration; (being, a pretty thing to admire) and will, I know on the least intimation of the contrary, be blown into a flame.
But I must proceed with caution; for, should he fuspedl my true motive, the lot would fall upon Jonas; there would be no standing against his resentment; I propofej therefore. Swimming with the stream, and, by Seeming to give into their measures, totally disconeert them.
Preston is not yet in charity with that wench for her complaint against Squib; I shall have Her assistance upon every occasion to humble miss Patty; nor has she received that great impression of the sweetness and goodness of sarah’s
disposition, as might have been expected
The wife. Say the French, understand half a word.
Had your Sister been any other sort of woman than she is, she might hate been useful— —
G 4 1 believe
12
i believe it will be most prudent to keep clear of Such a confidant; for my father is ail in all with her, for reasons, I suppose, you are unacquainted with.
She made us a short visit yesterday morning; their behaviour was very mysterious; whispers, nods, thanks, and promises, were distinguifha ble. i hope she will not, out of a profusion of gratitude, become my mother in law.
I have lost my accustomed penetration. I. was at one period of my life, a most dangerous observer. The remotest intimation, a frown, a Smile, nay a flirt of the fan, was Sufficient to put me upon the Scent; and I never failed to be Successful in my pursiiits..
But my faculties are impaired of late, insomuch, that I have but one degree more susceptibility than a down right idiot..
I do not make the application; but I was dipping into an author the other day, who told me “That love is So whimsical a passion, that ** it inspires those with wit that never had any
before; and deprives those of it, whc nfually
possessed it.”
The change in me is singular— — i am far from being an absolute votary to the passion: * — mine is only a little kind of a Smattering inclination; — though that, indeed, may be owing to the cold water Bradshaw was pleased to throw on it in its infancy.
Well, I have this comfort still, that if we cannot be friends, we will be enemies; and, if I am to be neglefbed and despifed, I will endeavour to render myself properly deserving. I am, s^c.
LET
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 129
LET E R XXX :
miss Price to miss Kennington.
"rt T HY will you not, my dear madam > V he convinced of the danger I expbfe myself to, in visiting at your house?? — I. so much dreaded has come to pass, encountering Lord Finly. Wlio can be infensible to his merit? — my heart, alas! is but too, too Sufceptible., How came you not to prepare me? I had then avoided that treacherous confusson his Sudden appearance threw, me into. Did you, could he, perceive it? If So, I am more than ever undone,;
You know how assiduous he was to Speak to me; and it must be as evident that I made it my whole study to prevent his having an opportunity; but it will be impostible to perfist in Such unnatural behaviour; my curiostty, my inclination will certainly betray me; and the consequence must be fatal to my repose and convenience..
I own I honour his Lordship exceedingly for. ' one part of his conduct; he is well acquainted with my Situation; no one need be at a loss for. an. introdudbon at a public shop; yet he is So polite, so generous as to affect ignorance ^ of what he supposes I should have no pleasure in revealing : — What his views or intention may be, are beyond my utmost penetration.
Thou foolish girl, — instead of Seeking todif
G - cover
13
cover the cause, it is incumbent upon thee to suppress the effect: thy reputation depends upon an entire stop being put to every tender proceeding; and whatever it colls thee, that must be preserved.
It is too true, Miss Kennington; nor do I know any method so probable or eligible, as your taking upon you to convince his Lordship how un benefitting the distinduon he now honours me with, is to my circumstances; and I have no doubt but you would deliver me from every future mortification.
Mr. bradshaw’s visit would have been a fiif ficient foundation for Scandal, if I had not been well known by the good woman I am now with,
After all, it is a misfortune that gentlemen will not confider the advantage and fatisfadiiom of those they profess to admire: — but, no; the compliment of their admiration is a recompense for every evil; the world’s censure, neglect of friends, and the unhappy impreshon left upon a youthful heart.
Will you meet me on Tuesday at Mrs. bateman’s? — i.et us enjoy ourselves for one day, and leave futurity to its own workings.
Lord Finly is much thinner than he was; or his dress makes him appear so — What a noble countenance!
I am astonished that hecahdefcend to bestow any consideration on me, when So deserving, so Suitable an objedf as Miss Rennington is placed before him.
I will be honest; had I twenty thousand pounds and Lord Finly not one shilling, (and his accomplishments the same) I should think it
well
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 131
well laid out in the purchase of his heart; but, circumstanced as I now am, it would unspeaka bly rejoice me to see my friend united to Such merit and fortune,, as neither .the one nor the other is every day 'attainable.
You tell me my finesse relative to your unde diverts you; I am glad of it.
Had I flounced and bounced, as your over virtuous ladies make a point of doing, on the flightest indignity, I must have entirely broke with your family; instead of which his Lordship is as gracious, tho’ rrot quite fb degagee as usual, and our intercourse is highly agreeable > him.
Yet am I not a stupid wretch, to prefer the mean condition I was born in, to Splendour so re putably acquired?
It is.true, Patty, we have Seen how you have ' acted with respect to a proposal that could flatter only your ambition; had your heart been touched, there had been a few. more words to the bargain
Hear me, madam; this was ever my opinion of prostitution, that the Soul has nothing to do with it: the senses once depraved, and all is over;, for the woman who is capable of loving a man for his person or estate, and merely to Secure the one or the other meets him at the altar, knows no more of chastity than a Hottentot.
Let me entreat you once .more, to confider what can be done to deliver me from this dangerous state : — in the Second person we can say abundance of things, much more to the purpose than when the cafe is actually our own.
Feel for me, think for me; but, above all things continue me a place in. your affection and
friendship.
13
friendship, and you shall ever find me moil gratefully Yours.
eooo oooc 4 eooo pooo 0006 0000 eooo 0000 0000
LETTER XXXI
✓
From the Same to the Same.
SAVE, Save me, dear madam! from becoming a prey to the temptation that is now cast before me: ambition, vanity, felf confide ration, under the false colourings of love, moll powerfully agitate me. The offer of baseness requires only to be heard, to be refused but such noble disinterestednefs demands a return in some measure adequate.
Lord Finly by disdaining to ditguife his Sentiment, has taught me how I ought to a61; had his attachment been more extravagant, perhaps his fate had been less happy. Dazzled by the greatness of his generosity, my view might not have extended beyond the present moment, and when time had restored us both to refleflion, our peace hast been irreparably undone. This shop, that now sits So heavy upon his heart, shall'never prove a blot in his escutcheon. — But, that my language may be intelligible to you, read the enclosed letter from his Lordship (which he sent to Mrs. trueman’s immediately before his meeting me at your house, though she forgot to give it me until this morning) and favour me with your opinion of it.
Lord
Miss SOMMER VILE. 133
Lord Finly to Mils Price.
‘‘ Madam,
I BEG leave to assure you, with the ut ‘ most ssncerity, that I have the highest refpe6l: ‘‘ for the‘merits'of your charaqer; as a proof of which I will venture to lay my whole ‘‘ heart before you to be Scrutinised at your will.
“When I first beheld you at Holyhead I was “struck with your appearance; the beauty, the decency of your person, your language, your circumstances, all conspired to convey ** the most favourable impression of you to the « heart.
“My heart not oply received but retained “that impression: y^ur Subsequent conversation, your Sentiment, have abundantly impro ved it; can you then be surprised at its operations??
“will not deny but I flattered myself that your birth, agreeable to the idle judgement of the world, was little inferior to my own; and “resolved' that you alone should be the objefit “of my pursuit and'tender approbation. You may remember I hinted Something of the kind to you at Holyhead; but you commanded my ‘‘ Silence, and was obeyed.
‘‘ I hoped on our disembarkation, or, at least, “as Soon as I had paid my last duties to my “grand father, to have informed myself of your family and connediions, when my ho“ “intentions should have been made “public; for however Small your fortune, I
should
134 The H I S T O R Y of
“should have been properly Senssble of the pre sent of your hand.
“But how was I shocked to hear of your fi. “tuation: indeed, my sweet girl; it was wrong “to expose yourself in a shop; no creature can « behold you without Surprise and curiosity; and, consequently, will make that Surprise the Subject of their conversation, tv “The endowments you possess, qualify you to shine in the highest rank. I have not one ** apprehension of your not acquitting yourself gracefully; but 1 am So weak as to be hurt by the reproach of that shop and counter, be ‘‘ hind which you have so unhappily placed ** yourself.
Quit, oh, I conjure.youj quit that hateful place! — put yourself under the*prote£lion of' Some friend you can confide in, and permit me “to address you, only by letter for one fix’ “weeks, and theirconfent to live abroad and become mine for ever.
That terrible mafeuline woman Lady Sax rah compels me to make this proposal;; would cruelly hunt you with Satire and ridi i “cule wheresoever you appeared; and, in spite of my best endeavours to promote, destroy “your happiness“
“few years travelling, change of climate, and increase of age, would wear you out of. their knowledge; we would then return to “England, and live agreeably to our own inclinations“
“shall I persuade you that it is merely“ “your peace sake that I would banish myself“ “my native country. I have told you “I am weak, I repeat the acknowledgement';
but
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 135
but my Sufceptibility of mortification, on this « occasion, could be only on your account,
‘‘ Many of your Sex are finely accomplished“
“born, nay bred obscurely; and it is “the privilege of ours to communicate our “dignity and consequence to the woman we es“ “: but perhaps you, from your great humility, would not So sufficiently attend to that particular, as would be uecefsary to your af“ “a proper confidence where you was ‘‘ knowd..
“I am Sensible of your affediion for miss Kennington; nor do I wish you to conceal “my request from her; she is not altogether ‘‘ exempt from disagreeable things, and, per“ “might consent to accompany us.
Do not misapprehend me, she loves Fleetwood. — A woman can never err when follow“ “her hushand’s fortune; their union must “be a previous step; and the other, I think, would very naturally follow.
<< Weigh well, my dear creature! I beseech “you weigh well, all I have Said; — and let your determination result from reason, from inclination.
‘‘ If your affections are not already engaged;,
if you are not particularly prejudiced in my disfavour; if travelling is not hateful to you, and goodness no stranger to your bosom, you must, you shall be mine.
“But renounce that shop; in all events it “will be your bane. — I should not be surpri fed if Some daring fellow was to carry yc u off violently. Was you as well acquainted with “your own perfections as I am, you would tremble for your Safety, and joyfully accept
“of
1
I
13
‘‘ of the friendship, tenderness, and protefhon of a man who wishes to live no longer than “he lives to your happiness“
“not difgijsted at the dullnejs or forma iity of this epistle; I have endeavoured to ‘‘ conform myself to that plainness and Sinceri “ty you so much affedi; and, as a proof of my << desire to please you, will suppress every riling << fuggestion of love and tenderness, and only fublcribe myself“
“dear patty’s most affediionate,
“servant, Finly.” ^
Now, Miss Kennington, I once, more beg your opinion:
The girl’s distradied to rejedf So extraordinary, so unprecedented an offer.
— that’s the very objection, madam: the distance between Lord Fmly and Patty Price is so immense, that it is impossible' to unite them.
And yet how wretched .a creature I am, is not ift the power of words to describe!!
could have been contented with my humble’ fortune, performed the businefs of the day with pleasure, and found a comfortable repose in the evening. — How dare I repine! — What! — Is not the Being that made me, infinitely wise!
That ever a little speciousness of behaviour, as Lady Sarah justly styled my pleasing arts,, should be capable of producing this! — but I have only to beg you will kindly write my sentiments for me; I never found rnyfest so much at a loss in my whole life.
My resolution is, however, fixed; I will neither quit my milliner’s shop, nor marry Lord Finly. Some turn or other, may, perhaps, happen
*
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 137
i
pen in my favour. — May he be happy! we were not born for each other.
<
I am, ct

LETTER XXXIL
Miss Kennincton to Miss Price.
UPON my word, Patty, I have no patience with you; — you refine until you are quite lost. Your interest and inclination So entirely correspondent — yet you resolve to be miserable out of very obstinacy.
But do not deceive yourself; you are a£ung upon a very wrong principle: the article of the shop operates more strongly upon your pride, than his lordship’s generoiity upon your gratitude!
You have So much the advantage of me, in point of understanding, that I know not how to deal with you; but be assured I would Soon deliver any other person’s mind from Such ridiculous fetters.
Not marry him I you deserve to be beat for your folly and meanness! — a meanness far below whatever that shop or counter could reduce you to.
I will Say no more upon the Subjedi:; — only, madam, you will be pleased to do your dirty work yourself. — I am glad you are at a loss for language to expose yourself. Take back your letter, and blush to know yourself the author of
Such
0
N.
13s   of
Such egregious nonsense. — O wirdom! wifdomf why didst thou forsake thy wonted favourite! Come to me directly, at all events; — bring some little thing out of your poop to cover the deceit and let me endeavour not only to make you fen stble of, but willing to renounce your far stretched error. Not all the snarling philosophers that ever existed would have thought of pradtising: such felf denial; — but, take it from me, you are no heroine you are only a mad woman.
What would not Lady Sarah give for such an offer from Mr. Bradshaw, tho’ the cafe in her respect (at least during old Mr. bradshaw’s life) would be entirely reversed she has the money, the man the merit.
A trip to France, Italy, or even Germany — How does my heart bound at the bare idea of such a thing? — You, my dear girl, the companion of my happy journey! — but my peace and happiness are no concern of yours. — My uncle may sell me. Sacrifice me to the most horrible of wretches: — you can be a patient spec tator of my misery;; would accept of the finest fortune and finest gentleman in Ireland, to Saveyourfelf and friend from destrudfion.
You must follow your own inventions, lose the bestj the most valuable of opportunities, and sigh out the remainder of your days in Sorrow and regret.
I am, .c,
n E T
Miss SOMMER VILE. 139
0
LETTER XXXIIL
From the Same to the Same.
WE are undone, Patty, nothing can Save us from the Severest calamity.
What a careless stupid wretch! — though, indeed, - I meant it for the best. — False keys may be procured; but the pocket is Sacred, except from the hand of the thief.
Your letter, which in the gaiety of your heart you Sent me relative to my uncle’s wicked proposals, is gone, — lost; — perhaps, is fallen into his hands. — What will become of us — - if Lady Sarah has got it? — worse and worse: I must fly my country for ever! '
You see, my dear, how necessary it was for you to have made a proper use of your understanding; the fault is all my own, and I will not meanly divide it. Why did I not immediately burn So dangerous a paper, nor Suffer it to rise up in judgement against me? For you must know that I unfortunately transcribed my lord’s letter to you on the back of it, before I complied with your request of laying it upon his toilet.
I have not the confidence to inquire after it; my voice, my countenance, cannot be trusted.
advise me how to al; Some mischief will be the consequence, — and I can never forgive myself for being the author of it. Write to me by the bearer, and believe me to be
most affedfionately yours,
S. Kennington.
END of the FIR ST'VOLU ME.
THE
H I S T O R y
O F
MISS SOMMERVILE.
VOL. II
LEW S C lil^icldejla
THE
i8oi
•HISTORY
or
MISS SOMMERVILE.
/
Written by a Lady.
■h*.‘
I N T W O V O L U M E S.
VOL. II
/
A.
. 0
?ND U S L I N:
Printed by D. chaiv1berlaine» W. Sleator,
J. Potts, J, Williams, and C Ingham.
M, DCC, LXIX
THE.,
H I S T O R. V ■
OF
MISS SOMMERVILE.
'/,.
LETTER XXXI
f
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
E L L Harry, you have hitherto been I W I entertained with the loveliness, the § .oooo...3|{.. worthiness of Patty Price: and, notwithstanding my heart was incapable of receiving a stmilar impression with Finly, I will now own to you that I approve her above all her sex, and profanely consider her as more than mortal; — but angels and women are a distino; Species, and, however darknefs'or even twilight may deceive us, the fun in his meridian willre veal the cheat.
The object of my approbation was a modest, fensible, well-bred female, whose virtues and accomplishments entitled her to my best esteem; — not a low vicious wretch, capable of being vol. II H captivated
A
146 The H I S T O R Y of
captivated by the allurements of fortune and blandishments of foppery, — the most contempt ibie as well as unfeafona’ble of foppery, — that of old age.
Lord Finly will be mad with rage and disappointment— — he shall be no longer duped, Sunk as she is to infamy; we will mutually def pise her. That ever so miserable a creature as Lord Kennington could form or execute so def. picable a design; and his fine niece, whose perfections I so pleasingly employed myself in describing, and had marked down for a wife for your truly worthy brother, — is neither more nor less than an absolute pander to her uncle.
I little suspected that our engagement would have been productive of such a discovery.
Lord Finly was reserved, nay, melancholy the whole evening, — mortified, no doubt from being unable to approach the goddess of his idolatry, who had so artfully placed herself between her friends in iniquity. Lord and Miss Kennington, as to be inaccessible to every other person.
Never did the grandmaster of deceit — It is to no purpose to dwell upon an unpleasing fub jedf. I have often told you what bewitching graces she is mistress of.
It was bv the merest accident on earth thatl obtained an evidence of her voluntary acceptance of the wages of sin, a tranfeript of which I now send you, and must reserve the original for future use.
We were informed that supper was ready. — Rissng always cccafions feme little bustle, — which Bob (I am infinitely obliged to him) tool advantage cf, and pressing close to Miss Kennington thought himself completely happy.
She
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 147
She drew her handkerchief hastily from her pocket, in order to conceal her blushing, (for the Sweet dissembler that does not besstate to pro niote and countenance guilt, affe6fs to be the stmplest, shyest thing) and out popped a piece of paper at the Same time.
I was at her elbow, — picked it up, — perceived the characters nearly resembling a little poem Patty had shown me at Holyhead, that she had fele^ed from a favourite author; and was incited by a happy, tho’ perhaps mean, curlostty, to slip it into my pocket unobserved by any one: but, without further parade, read the sweet copy of her epistle to Miss Kennington; as also my lord’s vile proposal. *.
they to be permitted to enjoy their wickedness unmolested? — No; she shall not impose upon Bob, nor the world in general. — I will make her baseness as public as the day; but not till I have privately reproached and punished her.
I will make her a Second visit; timidity and refpe^ shall not accompany me: — I will by as deep laid hypocrisy as she herself can practife, draw her out to the utmost — when I will produce this proof of her infamy! — and strike her dumb for ever!
I am now, beyond measure, convinced that wine may improve our enjoyments; — but vto man! — woman! — totally destroy them.
I am, c
* the transcripts are given;
H 2 L E T
L
14
LETTER XXXII
Miss Price to Miss Kennington.
Your prophecy, my dear madam, relative to the mortifying consequence of the lost papers, is already aecomplifhed; — but be not concerned; the cruel censurers of our conduct will be the greatest sufferers in the end. I have, indeed. Sustained a terrible shock; — it may be useful to me hereafter, and I am perfectly satisfied.
I was in my proper employment this morning, when I was told a gentleman destred to speak with me. My foolish heart was thrown into an unnecessary palpitation; — it was not Lord sin ly, but the daring Mr. Bradshaw.
His address at first, though polite, was visibly altered; affectation and nature are widely different.
I have presumed, madam, (Said he) to re“ “my visit Somewhat earlier than you “feerned to permit me; but ladles are not al ways to be understood literally.”
I was a good deal displeased;; — resolved, if poshble, to conceal It.
“I am Sorry, sir, (returned I gravely) that the vteafons I urged to prevent your giving yourself this trouble, were not deemed fuffi eknt: .: but, however light they may weigh
“in
r
miss S O M M E R V I L E. 149
« in your estimation, I still see them with the << same eyes.” -- -- --
That isj my dear madam, you are a nice « observer of forms; but rather negligent of “realities.”
“I have always considered you as a gentle“ “Sir; — it is a comprehensive charafiler; “— and must be uniform or” — — •
“The gentleman, Miss Price, (returned he, with an air that displeased me) and the peer “are not exactly the same thing; — and perhaps “the one may be as incapable of pleasing you “as the other of difpleastng; but this I can af“ “that no right honourable coxcomb in “the universe can feel a more lively or disinterested passion for you than I do, though “he may have gifts in his power I cannot be“ “
I confess I do not understand you, sir. “Plain, intelligent language — not riddle or my’’stery, are Suited to my capacity, ”
“As a proof of my willingness to oblige you, “madam, I will come to the pnrpofe. That I love you (nay do not interrupt me) is as true “as that I exist — tenderly, ardently love you.
My personal merits you are no stranger to: “my heart shall be modelled to your wish; why, “then, withhold yourfetf from me? — Accept “my hand, my fortune, and make me happy. “I would not have offended you by this abrupt “declaration, if I did not apprehend Some ri“ “in your affefitions. Consent to be “mine; ” -- -- -- -
Be assured, sir, that, notwithstanding, it is irnpossible for me to accept your offer” — ^ —
“Oh dear Miss Patty! (with a kind of half
H 3 “sheer)
1^
Sneer) do not trouble yourself to invent unmeaning excuses; I know you better than you imagine, and am convinced my proposal is not unworthy of you.”
“If it is your intention to mortify or distress me, (Said I, in accents that must Speak my ** feelings) it is completely answered; but pray, ** Sir, is not this conduct inconsistent no less with humanity than politeness: I am a poor, de
« abjeq: thing.” --
, “Upon my word, madam, (cried he eagerly)
you are an admirable creature! — What por “ers do you possess!! — world is deprived of “a most excellent tragedian by that beautiful reserve, that exquistte modesty, nature has bestowed upon you !”
“I will hear no more; I beg, str, you will ** remove yourself from my Sight, without re ducing me to the necefsity of expostng both you and myself“
“1 — no, no, madam 1 (pray be seated) you are too wise to expose yourself velun ** tarily; but if an accident Should happen to ** Show you in your true colours, I suppose you would not deny your own handwriting“ “really, miss Patty, (continued he, with “a Sarcastic Smile) all this rage and turmoil is very unnecessary: — a few words are alone Sufficient to clear up the matter. — .Can you, will you perssst in your assumed obstinacy, « and refuse an offer many of your sex (without ** vanity) would gladly embrace ?”
(Never can I forget his confident and cruelly Satirical countenance.)
Come, come, (said he) I mean not the least violence j — only you shall not leave this room:
Miss S O M M K R V I L E. 151
t( — a change of chair, indeed, if one is a “greater favourite with you than another, I v/ili ‘‘ not dispute; but I, will be heard, and anfvverr ed too, before we part.’’ '.
Passion moi, rtifigation, self pity vvere too powerful; I burst into tears, and was nodels incapable than unwilling to reply to such unmerited language.
He, for a few moments, beheld me with tender compastion; — but the turbulent spirit by which he was a^uated brohj? put a Second, time.
‘‘ Treacherous fpol! (exclairped he, with a “vehemence that startled me— — ovva, .heart, “I mean, madam !n — This, love is a most diabo “lical business— — could I almost distrust my own senses l r^admire, believe you as much “as ever— — \yith So undeniable an evidence “of your ww«r, in my pppket, the imposstion cannot be digested.’’.,
“I think, sir, (said I) considering the treat ment I have m, et with? it is top cbndefcending even to tell you, you are grossly abused. There is not an action of my life that I should ‘‘ blush to, acknowledge: pay, a fettled purpose of my heart, that could make me asham
I shall be mad 1 — but I am curedmadam, **' (cried he, affe^ing compofurc) it is not of “the least consequence to me; — (adding with “no small alteration both pf voice and counte. “nance) f only wish I had never seen your face; « — yet it will be of use to, me, — as .the re“ “must defend me; from all future “hypocrify.’’.,,,
V Since you are So very genteel (said I, half ** trembling with apprehenston and resentment)
H 4 ya s
15'2 trin H I S T O R Y OF
** as to compel me to listen to your conversation, will you give me leavei Sir, to alk in turn, ** what evidence you may be possessed of to mt disadvantage ‘
■ Only this letter returned 'he, with an ln fiilfing affy --! presu rrie you know the super fcriptidii, and liiay, perhaps', recollect the contents without my assistance.”
I immediately recognised my ow’n handwriting; but had no furpicion that it vvas the only opportunity he could have had of Seeing me unworthily : I, therefore very eomposedly Said, You will please to indulge me with a ssght of the date, at least, — as I have wrote too many letters to that Lady for it to be possible form to conjediure which of them that may be.”
"Why, madam, (Said he, with a mixture of Scorn and ex'ultatiou) but I beg your pardon, « — you are a nominal lady, have a fnbjiantid ** coach and Jixand, for the rep: fhdijs Kennington and you can settle fits! — you are,
“indeed, a heroine 1 Lord Finly shall know how deserving you are of his best regard, - — ** and the heart wounded Fleetwood be made ** acquainted with miss kennington’s worth. — << Now I think it is but natural that you should ** lay astde your state. — i the favours you confer ** upon his Lordship are abundantly too precious ** for him alone. — Admit me to a participation, ** and you shall find me all love, gratitude, and ** Secrecy. 1 will deliver up this letter, — leave « every one undeceived, — and contrive a place ** of audience for you moresuitable to your tasse ** than your present one. I cannot she happy without you; for 1, as well as the contempti ble Lord Kennington, am sensible that you
“are
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 153
are one of the fairest daughters of the creation!
What says my lovely girl? Those lips- -- -”
shudder at the recolle^ion of his insolence! * he kissed me more than once before 1 had either. presence of mind or strength to disengage myself:
‘‘ I thank you. Sir, (said I, the instant I was able to Speak) you have wiped away my tears!
« — I shall be no loser by being deprived of your good opinion. As to your suspicions of me,
** let them live for ever; but do not harbour one with regard to poor .Miss Kennington :
** however culpable I am, she is perfectly iano** cent.”
“A likely story; indeed; streturned he, con“
“— butfay, my beloved girl, (his “features Softened) could you — (then, with rage and irritation) Oh, you never could con“ “me I have‘injured you I”
** To answer you (Said I) woulst be to destroy my fixed purpofei Whatever T am to Lord ** Kennington, be assured I' wilt always remain a stranger to you Accuse me, expose me, I ^ “wilt not murmur: you may, perhaps, essen“
“Serve a man whb possesses my highest “esteem. I hope you will not longer detain “me“
“then, (cried he. Seizing my hand, C “which 1 ventured to withdraw, in the same “moment) that you will not hrdeyourfelf from “my knowledge; — guilty or innocent I niust ** visst you, — Do not make 'me desperate Ino “place on earth shall conceal you long! — I “have resolution; and what I engage todo,
“shall not be done by halves.”
H 5 y Only
15
“Only leave me, for the present, (I was, my “dear Mds Kennington terrified at his behavi* “our) and I will conssder of all you have laid: “I have little or no acquaintance in the coun try, no friend to receive or protect me; you “need no', therefore, apprehend my escaping « - if you are so determined, and enter pr zirg as you mention, it would be a folly “to attempt such a thing.”
“Give me, once more, your dear hand, and “tell me now — Pardon my impetuossty it is not my natural difpolition; but you have undone me, and will be both unjust to yourself“ “me, if you condemn my behaviour.” What a creature is man! — but I leave you to comment — My Spirits, my patience, are exhausted! — Was It for this I became a wanderer?
My whole ccncern is for you: Mr. fleet wood will, undoubtedly, imbibe a fatal preju dice against you : — I can see no means of preventing it; you must Judge for yourself.
I am your unhappy
M.P..
LETTER xxxlii.
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
IT Have dene her bustnefs, Harrv, with Lord Finly : poor man, the stroke was severe. It ieems he had chosen her for the companion of
his
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 155-
his' future days; she is, however, found out, and. must rest content with being the old beau’s mistress.
Bob stghs most profoundly : ^ shis heart rebels against his judgrnent. How difficult to persuade ourselves that a fair face only covers a corrupt mind.
It is proposed on all hands, that we should desist visiting at kennington’s; but it is pretty plain that no one is so great a hero as to Set the example. As for my part, I do not Scruple to aclcnowledge, that I neither can nor will forego the sight of Patty, So long gs she remains within my reach,
3 will watch her every step; ~it will be employment for me; that’s all, Harry. As to love, if ever I felt the least glimmering of the pasti on, it is entirely conquered, o. What a fine fellow Finly was a few days ago! > — Disappointment is a hard lesson with him be knows nothing of philosophy, and deserves my commiseration. ’
Patty and her despicable gallant must have fothe jhouse of resort; — and shall I Suffer a fuper anuated wretch to engross the loveliest creature breathing? No; I will punish his presumption;; teach him humility. <
This fellow knew the fejt, — was vigorous in his attack, ^ — did not stand Sneaking with distant respect— — truly, the fear of offending the lady’s delicacy, has been the bane of — finly’s felicity.
The affair would never have transpired, but by Such an accident as the dropped letter. My Lord and his niece would have been faithful to
their
156 tste HI STORY OF
their .trust, and these worthy lads still continued the prey of a ridiculous passion.
I would give a hundred pounds that Bob was as fairly released, frorn his entanglement, as I front my'foolisti approbation; but he has had the address to excuse his belovdd at her uncle’s expense, — she is so inexperienced in vice, that he most certainly imposes upon her, with professing that he is, either privately married to Mist Patty, or intends foto be. — A pretty device, as Well as a most probable one. As to me, T despise such shallow artifice. — Though nothing a( fedts me shore' than the knowledge of patty’s baseness— — my heart cannot subscribe to any paltry deceptions. I will, however, have such proof as shall confound her in Spite of her effrontery, and compel her, when next we meeh to acknowledge the Justice of rny accusation.
Perhaps you asst to what purpose— — not leave her, to her fate,, aud return to England? — That were a good joke, indeed. We have not been a month in the country, and you want us to fly upon such a trumpery girl’s account: but, sofar from that, Harry, I shall persuade Bob and Finly to behave ak usual— — may, perhaps, pick up intelligence; — but I will not behold her face again in my own proper charaifter, for Some time. I may, perhaps, cause it to be
inssnuated that I am gone into the country.
(
^ ^
. -»
They have given into my measures, especially as they will bring Some notable purpose of finly’s to bari
was hot always so curious; — but I would give
a hand
i
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 157
a handsome See at this juncture to be let even into that little Secret.
What a generous fellow these ladies will think me, for not betraying them. — I must laugh by anticipationthey shall find me as skilful a manager as themselves They have a volatility in their natures that allures oiie into the opinion, that they cannot be deep defignersbut it is a gross error, which I was born to detest. I will write my sweet a6trefs a farewell epistle : it will have^a bee.
Adieu, Harry; — you perceive the wound is not mortal; nor will it leave even a trifling fear.
X
LETTER XXXIV
Mr. Bradshaw to Miss Price.
\
Madam,
I Sincerely pity your fallen condition, you certainly deserved a better fate; but if happiness is not incompatible with vice, may you obtain it.
I am no profligate; and notwithstanding the offenstve proposals I made you, knowing your circumstances, I would not for ten thousand worlds have been your Seducer. You have, indeed, robbed yourself of an unspeakable charm i — I am far from wishing to mortify you; but a
cha
15
chara6ler, as you took occasion to remark to me, ought to be uniform.
Had your mind, in reality, been untainted, — how amiably engaging the condu6l you obfervedl I am astonished you did not perseyere in virtue from very policy; you have fixed one friend by your renunciation of it; — but you have forfeited an honourable and honest attachment.
I confess I leave town in order to avoid the sight of you. — I could not be your enemy, notwithstanding your cruelty, and your secret ilill remains at your own door. The stightest encouragement would have prevented my departure; the stightest encouragement would ensure my return. consider the whole affair, madam, and should you not esteem me utterly unworthy of you, recall me to that felicity I can nevor enjoy at a distance from so beloved an objo6v.
I am, Sic.
LETTER XXXV
I
Lord Finly to Miss Price.
PARDON me, dear madam, if I am impatient to know your determination. I did flatter myself that you would have honoured my letter in a greater degree than you have done; but I submit to your pleasure, and only entreat that you will, at length, relieve me from my painful fulpence.
Tell me, Oh 1 tell me, if my request is agreeable
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 159
able to your inclinations; nor delay your compliance with it, if not utterly repugnant: you are only increassng your own difficulties. You are but little known at present in this kingdom; — retire before it is too late to answer our puj pofe.
I doubt not but you have taken Miss kenning ton’s advice upon the occasion. Deal sincerely by me; is she not my friend? She is all goodness! and will not only approve my choice, but be my advocate.
I will not attempt to wait upon you without your permission; but let the constraint have Some Small merit in your stght. — self-denial is by no means the eassest talk we impose upon ourselves. I will send tomorrow for your answer; it will be a miserable period until I am acquainted with the result of my application.
I am, c.
LETTER XXXVI
Miss Price to Lord Finly.
My l0rd9
IT is your lordship’s destre that I should be very explicit in my answer to your generous, your obliging letter: I take you at your word. — Read, then, with attention what I now lay before you.
That I am fensible of ytiur merit I will not scruple to acknowledge; and had my fortune
taught
t6q The' H I S T O RN of
taught me to entertain such great expeflations as the Securing your affe6iions, Should have deemed myself a happy being: — but, as I am circumstanced, I can only regret the misery of having a taste of’refinement that never can be
gratified.
At holyhead my retirement sat easy upon me, noohad I one wish beyond a Safe passage to this city. The impertinence of a Set of people I never offended, drove me from my hiding-place; — I sought protection, but have been betrayed to nibrtification.
I have no charge against you, my Lord, but that m unexampled goodness andicondescenficn. Infirlt, 'however grievous, the mind can Support; it is roused by ill treatment to felf defence; —. but Sinks into inadivity and < depression when tempted beyond its strength.
Be assured it is neither your fortune or title that I lament the loss of; your greatness of soul could alone have reached my heart.
If I was capable.of receiving your future addresses, I should not make this confession; but I love you too well to unite you to So inconsidera ble a mortal as I am.
Mr. Bradshaw has thought proper to use me unworthily, on a Supposstion that I am, as he calls me, a hypocrite. — But how comes it, Since, my hypocrisy has never injured him, that he is authorised to make me So Severely Smart for it?
He accuses me of being kept by Lord ken nington. If is really Singular that your men of understanding can be So grossiy imposed upon.
'My Situation is unchanged; — my men employment unrenounced; — what’advantage had I then reaped by forfeiting my virtue?
— But
Miss \ SOME M E R V I L E. 161
— But I shall not labour the point; I may af tonish you; but it is the duty we owe to posterity rather than ourselves, that should restrain us from prostitution; and this duty extends to both Sexes.
It is, my Lord, an unworthy a6fion to rob our ndghbour of his fame, his friends, or property; and do we not start at the bare idea of
bringing harmless creatures into existence, without one claim to parental protest; ion, provision, or consanguinity?? this is not all: the better half of the odium falls upon their innocent heads, whilst the giiilty authors of their Sufferings revel, at large, in that affluence from which they are for ever excluded.
I do not mention this on your lordship’s account; but to convince you that the woman that can look sofar into consequences;; be the most despicable of wretches, if capable of offending against Such strong eonvidfions.
Believe me, sir, I am unconcerned at my own particular part of the Scandal; but it hurts me unspeakably, that a lady of the nicest Sentiments should be so unjustly censured. If I am criminal, Miss Kennington is totally ignorant of it; nor would she join hands with guilt to obtain the greatest of rewards.
But to return to your lordship’s noble gene rosity.
Had I never Set my foot in this kingdom, had my acquaintance with you commenced under very different auspices, I could never have consented to disgrace you by such an alliance; but,, buffeted about as I have been, traduced, infnlted, was I mean enough to ifly with your Lordship, — you ought to Spurn the reptile.
A
i62 The H I S T O R Y or
A little reflection will teach you to Subfchbe to this opinion. — Be Satisfied, I am not the fine creature you mistake mesor: it is alone the want of a better knowledge of me, that deceives you; but I, that know myself will Secure you from prafibical error.
May your Lordship make a more Suitable choice: may the lady really postess every per fe6fion imputed to me, with a heart as well dis posed to love and honour you, andi you cannot fail of happiness.
Mr. Bradshaw writes me word he has left Dublin on my account.
I am Sorry he should have given himself So much trouble; for, if he had condescended to intimate his intention, or the necessity there was for removing himself to a distance from So formidable a being, I myself would have withdrawn. All places are alike to the friendless, Ireland, Scotland, England; misfortunes would alike await me; but in every place I should remain, my Lord,
Your lordship’s, c.
LETTER XXXVII
Miss Price to Miss Rennington.
I Send you, my dear madam, this Second letter from Lord finly r i have returned an an iwer, and all is at an end. But really my Situation,
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 163
lion begins, to be very uneasy to me. Some one or other perpetually dropping in to tease and torment me.
Lady Sarah brought two or three ladies yesterday, to whom (he had related my adventures, as she was pleased to style them.
They did me the honour to stare and laugh me out of countenance. When will my perie cutions cease??
^ ^ ^
every appearance of evil drives us to defpairl My spirits were So sunk, by Lady sarah’s behaviour, that I gave myself over for lost. — When the agreeable Mrs, fiateman instantly presented herself
« Seem chagrined, my dear, (Said she) « what has befallen you? I would be your friend << in every refpe6l:, if you would but confide in “me.”
I thought it a folly to conceal the cause of my mortification from her.
She kindly pitied me, and advised me to take a private lodging, and have my work Sent home. “There are many persons in Dublin, (Said she) would be glad to receive you upon the footing of a boarder or companion. — Myself, for in stance: I know not when my sister will re“ “You should dispose of your time as “you pleased, except an hour or two in the “evening, when we would contrive, if possible, to have Miss Kennington with us.”
I was So harrasted by the present, and apprehensive of the future, that I was half inclined to
accept
i64 The H I S T O R Y of
accept this very kind offer, I, however, resolved to be determined by you; therefore, make ing a proper return to So much good nature, I begged she would allow me a few days to coiir Sider of it, and I would then send her my answer.
What necessities am I reduced to by the cruelty of mankind! — Why will they not permit me to pafs my hours in peace? But I will look forward to that season that will Secure me from all interruption, — the winter of life.
Which of them, then, would be willing to cheer my drooping Spirits? Refledfion, (if I was either so weak or so wlelced as' to yield to their .perfuassons) guilty refledipn, would, at that period, be the only bitter companion of my Solitude— — have it as yet, thank heaven,, in my power to avoid so dreadful a fate!
Surely this new profpe6t will not be.obfcu
red. — —
Mr. Bradshaw has conveyed himself off. He has Sent a saucy kind of a penitential letter; you shall see it when we meet.
I rejoice in his departure, whatever were his motives. There was Something so wild and daring in his countenance, the last time I Saw him, that I think of him with terror!
I have Seen more of the world in these lad three months of my life, than I could have' imagined the world afforded, jealousy, deceit, villainy, cruelty. — Oh, my dear Miss Kennington, continue your kindness to me, or I must be lost!
I beg that none of these gentlemen may be acquainted with my new Situation; for which reason Lady Sarah must not be let into the Scent.
Her
Miss S O MM ER V I L E. 165
Her woman, I am sensible, owes me a dreadful spite;; perhaps, her malice may never, have an opportunity of showing itself. I wonder she has never had the boldness to intercept our letters.
What shall I do in this exigence. I hac more than once wished it was poshble to put myself under the protection of honest Mr. shug burgh. — We will talk the matter over at Mrs, bateman’s, till when, adieu.
Morn.
If I had dispatched this letter, previous to my receiving the enclosed, I should have suspected it was your work; but I am now convinced it is a true picture of benevolence and humanity.
Mr. Shugburgh to Miss Price.
‘‘ IT is So impossible to have an opportunity « of speaking to my dear little girl, when surrounded by her admirers, that I am obliged to “have recourse to my pen, or confine my wish es and sentiments to my own breast. Wri “ting is an employment I am but little pradli “fed in, as my conneslions are very limited. — “I have, indeed, a heart at all times open to the participation of my neighbour’s pleasures and diffatisfaftions; but my only Sphere of “activity is Lord kennington’s family.
“There is a Something in your exposed situ“ “that affects me extremely. What can be “the meaning, my dear child, that you are thus “strolled from the protection of your relations “or friends? Is it possible that, contrary to all appearance and bhief, you can have been guil
“ty
16
ty of any steps to forfeit their countenance; or “has misfortune alone driven you to these ex“ “?
“I know too much both of life and human nature to be surprised at either cause— — « and mortality were never disunited; nor is “there any eminence above the reach of ca lamity.
But, in order to be properly Serviceable “to you, it is necessary to understand your true “cafe. You can have nothing to apprehend from me. — I am no sensual wretch I no Spoiler of innocence! but would shelter even a blight ed flower from further injury!
“Reflect on my whole conduct towards you; have I not betrayed an almost paternal affection? — Make me useful to you in whatever way you judge most advantageous to your happiness; and I will never to see you more, if “you require it, as a proof of the uprightness of my intentions.
r“
“own it is hard that humility and industry “cannot Secure you from censure and malevolence;; the great endowments you possess, both of body and mind, will never permit you ** to be free from interruption in a city.
Those young fellows, Lord Finly and Mr. Bradshaw, are not, I dare believe, either staves to appetite or void of principle; but “what can they propose by their mutual ap probation of you?
“My friend too, I am Scandalised to think “of it; but he is most shamefully taken in; you have much less, however to apprehend from venerable threescore, than blocming five and lwenty.
Your
 67
“Your Situation is too critical to be trifled with; you must remove your present employ ment, or your reputation will be lost.
I need not intimate that there are persons ready and willing to aggravate every the least “unfavourable circumstance — A malicious wo man is worse than the greatest libertine. — He has gratifications, however gross, to incite him in his career; — but malice, from whence is it derived? or whether shall we trace it to ‘‘ the inmost recesses of a narrow soul, that, like << the dog in the manger, denies others the sub fistence it is incapable of feeding upon?
“I have cast about in my own mind for a proper asylum for you : till your bloom is somewhat overpast, your industrious inclination ‘‘ need not be subdued. I do not wish to load “you with obligation, but Secure you from “evil.”
miss kennington*s mother is a very good woman : — her fortune is now become pretty easy;; she is too prudent to fly in the face of her benefa<stors, by snatching her daughter ** out of their hands.
“To her you may be doubly recommended; ‘‘ Miss Kennington loves you, and would rejoice to Serve you. You will be an excellent com panion for that lady; and. by your pleasing“ “and the never-failing assistance of time, in great m ashre dispel her present melancholy. I will prctes her child in return for the favour she may show you; but your “own good sense vvll enlure your happiness and “her approbation,
“Let me hear froiii you Soon, and believe ‘‘ me 10 be, c.
Shugburgh.”
I shall
i68   oti
shall perhaps, make a strange figure in your eyes, by declining an offer that was confessedly the only thing I most desired. But, my dear miss Kenpington, you have hitherto indulged me in the retention of Some Secrets you conceive me possessed of relative to my affairs; and I must entreat you not to withdraw it at this jundlure. It is impossible for me to return to England with convenience, and Mrs. bateman’s Scheme cannot be exceptionable. I beg you will nevertheless, make Mr. Shugburgh Sensible of my grateful Surprise at such unmerited goodness, and assure him, that if he or you disapprove of the disposition I mean to make of myself, I will implicitly subscribe to your opinion, and forego its execution.
Believe me, I am far from being averse to obligation, (however ineligible in itself) when conferred by such minds as the worthy Mr. shug burgffs and your own; but I must, at the same time, acknowledge that Mrs. bateman’s proposal of having my work conveyed to her house, has charms for me, as I have many enemies forward to misconstrue every adiion that would tend to raise me about my present condition.
I have had many hard lines Set before me; but none have been more difficult to acquire, than refusing the request of friendship.
I am an unhappy creature! — yet do not listen to me i am most happy in your valuable e steem and the kind consideration of that best of men; nor dare I repine at little events that have opposed my idle inclination. I am, ch
E TI

Miss, S O M M E R V I L E. 169
X X X ’*^*\X, ••^'§ li X 'i” XX "SS" X
IT fs • ^ % • IT ^ U m fr • F; %; ^ 5 / Z ^
LETTER XXXVIII
From the Same to the Same.
HOW Sweetly, my dear madam, do you chide me and the worthy Mr. Shugburgh [ How flattering his friendly condemnation! Whatever was the natural propensity of my heart, I Surely could not fail to conduq; myself properly, protedled and exhorted by So much goodness.
I have, in conformity to your permission and approbation, wrote my resolution to Mrs, Bateman, who returned me a polite answer, and promised to fetch me in the evening. With her I shall be as retired as my heart can wish; and at her house I shall hope for the pleasure of frequently feeing the best and most beloved friends I have upon earth.
I have no doubt of our agreement; she is both a well-bred and a well natured woman, and must be incapable of exadling any compliances I ought to refuse.
I am impatient to be gone. — Lord Finly — but no more of him; I have taken my final leave, and shall only remain his private friend. May he forget me, if necessary to his repose. May the world’s amusements and the fatisfadfion of friendship Sooth his heart and may he Soon make a more judicious and happy choice. Oh, nature! oh, vanity! how cruelly rebellious 1 — But
vol. II I it
io The H I S T O R Y of
it is only the Same thing as heretofore, and fhitl be Subdued.
LETTER XXXIX
The Same to the Same.
I Am, my dear miss Kennington, perfefily delighted with my new situation;; more obliging or good-humoured woman never lived. She prevents my wishes; and, in order to relieve my mind from every apprehension of obligation, has kindly fet me to work her a fire fcreen that will at least be adequate to a three' month’s, board.
She confessed ■ to me, last night, that she had a visst from Mr. Shugburgh. — What a valuable man! — he (poke of me with his usual generossty! complimented her (to be Sure) upon her attachment to me; but begged she would not deprive him of the pleasure of being my private benefactor. ^
“You know, madam, (Said he) that lam “a man without connexions,, as it were: my fortune is easy in itself; but ast am sstuated “at present, becomes abundant. I must, there fore, entreat your permission to dedicate a small“ “of it to patty’s use. I would not con“ “but enlarge your system of benevolence; “you must be the best judge in what manner .to employ it, and let her happiness still conti“ “to be the object of your attention.”
A kind
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 171
A kind of amicable Squabble was the consequence of this unexpected proposal; and Mrs. Bateman, at last, brought him to consent that I Should remain her visst or for one twelve months without making himself a party. She told me this in the utmost confidence; stut will it be pos fible, my dear, to restrain my gratitude! — May I never forfeit So inestimable a friend!
1 hope Lord Finly is reconciled to my departure : — it was abrupt, but could not be avoided. To have made him acquainted with my intention, would have been indireclly to ask him to prevent the execution of it.; — and, believe me, whatever tender regret I may have experienced upon the occasion, it is amply compensated by the reflection, that I have acted justly.
It is to very little purpose that we profess to love or honour an objecl, unless our actions are properly correspondent; and I am daily shocked at the proceedings of both sexes in the particular instance, of uniting themselves to each other at all adventures. Poverty, distress, contumely,
in vain rear their heads: — the hardy lovers rush
•/
on to known destruction, when, like our first parents, though equally culpable, they would throw the blame off themselves, however grievously they load their lately beloved. — We females are not well fuited to rough blasts; — the roses fade upon the cheek; the voice loses its harmony; and the stern brow of the new made lord is but ill calculated to recall them to life and beauty. — Thus the better half (in every sense of the word) of their days is spent in bitter repentance of a step they would not shun, and are unable to retrieve.
It is, however, no easy talk to subdue and restrain our most prevailing inclination.
I z Rejoice
1)
Rejoice, my dear Mlfs Kennington! rejoice with me, that the confli£l is over! for I feel I should be unequal to Such another trial.
«
LETTER XL
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
TH E plot, my good Harry, begins to thicken; Patty has eloped; and, if you would believe the fine milliner and her dependants, without any one’s knowledge, privity, or consent.
I have, undoubtedly, a Something of extravagant credulity in my aspect, or they would never have attempted to impose Such a tale upon me.
She has, you must know, written herself out in most heroic characters to Finly, by way of answer to his ridiculous proposals— — is a li' nished creature,, and will not fail of her crowd of dupes wheresoever she appears.
If I had not been So lucky as to obtain that fine letter, to proclaim her iniquity, she had never been so daring as to give up appearances; but all her game was out, and she had nothing for it, but to retire to that old wretch’s prettj boufey gardens, and delightful Jhades.
They shall not, however, afford her all the satisfaction she may promise herself; for I will haunt her as her evil genius, and most grievously torment her.
Finly
Miss so MM ER VILE. 175
Finly is ashamed to confess his weakness; but I can perceive there is much more of companion than anger in his resentment— — wish he was fairly out of the country.
Bob begs you will not delay your kind intentions relative to him : he has great faith in your success; but I am far from being so clear in it. Lord Kennington has an equal share of ambition and vanity, and would ill brook forfeiting his hopes of uniting his niece to nobility.
They spent the afternoon there previous to patty’s elopement: Kennington threw out many broad hints to Lord Finly, who made but an awkward figure upon the occasion according to bob’s account; and for the pair of turtles, as Finly tells the story, it was most pitiable; — they did so hang down their heads in Sorrow and dif confolation.
For my part, I am in minutely expedlation of a rupture: none but the wilfully blind, one would imagine, could overlook such Speaking behaviour; but my lord’s optics are So whimsically constru6led that he sees but so much of an objed, and in Such a point of view, as Suits his own humour or fancy — yet, to expe£t it ^ can continue, is to be as absurd as himself.
Lady Sarah is wonderfully altered in her disposition;; complaisant, so complying, and so uncommonly attentive to Miss Kennington. — It is not for me to pry into futurity; but I wish she means her well, or us either; many a throat has been cut under the mask of friendship, and I have not the least doubt of her abilities in the mischievous.
This Patty sits heavy upon my heart, in fplte of all my efforts; — it is curiosity; it is friend
I 3 ship;
174 The H I S T O R Y of
, fbip; — it is a desire of convincing her that fly is not So private in her baseness as she may slater herself, that thus agitates me : but find her out I must, or I can never rest.
i’ll tell you, Harry, I am not without apprehension that I myself have been aceestary to her flight. I did not treat her properly: no ill con du£t on her part could authoriv: e me to take lir berties: — and she has certainly flown from Lord Finly in order to fly from me her perfc cutor.
If there should be any mistake in that affair — but, blockhead that I am, was it not her own handwriting! nor does she merit the consideration of a momen 11
I am, c.
Bradshaw.
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- o -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
I
LETTER XLI
Lord Finly to miss Kennington. Madam,
I Have great reason to believe you are not unacquainted with the place of patty’s residence. To say it would oblige me to convey the enclosed Safely to her hands, would poorly express the happiness I should derive from fueh a favour.
But I have much more to alk; she is accused of a criminal conneflion with a near relation of
yours; I need not mention the rest. I own the
pr oofs
Miss S O M M E R v IE E. 1^5
proofs are strong against her, yet my heart is unconvinced.
A letter to you upon a horrid subjeq:, tho’unquestionably her writing, is insufficient to deprive her of that estimation her whole behaviour Seemed to demand.
Much more depends upon this article than you can possibly imagine. I must Submit, however, to your pleasure;; — - you are too humane to trifle with misery, you have the power of relieving. ^
lam, cf;
: I! > f * *; { ‘ I S
I s s I 8 S t i i 2. s i 2 2 2; 1 2 2 i
LETTER XLIL
Miss Price to Miss Kennington.
H.D W unfriendly, my dear madam, the ceremony you have observed?? — you conceive that any Secrets fubsssted between Lord Finly and me, that you might not participate?
He is a generous man,? but interrupts the happiness he Seeks to promote.
I will not oppose your complying with his request, as it is a happy opportunity of acquitting yourself to Mr. Fleetwood, — who must have been strangely puzzled in bis judgement of us, notwithstanding his affefited ignorance deprived you of every means of introducing the subject, without betraying your knowledge of all my proceedings.
I 4 Do,
*
176'   of
Do, My dear madam, entreat him, for my peace sake, to forbear all future application. —
I cannot be his, though to refuse him breaks my very heart.
It would have been kind to have Saved me the trouble of sending the enclosed, and waiting for your opinion of it, by perusing it; in the first instance, what Seals ought to be Sacred from friendship’s hand? My Spirits are fe low, that I can only add, that I am, M. Price,
Lord Finly to miss Price:
(enclosed in the above.)
« FORGIVE me, madam, that I thus persift « to follow you even to your utmost retirement;
but, the interest I have in your reputation and << happiness will not permit me to sit down content with injuries done the one, and my appre lienfions for the other.
** Did you but know how they have tortured me — but you are virtue’s Self, and must bid « defiance to their censures“
“me entreat you to condescend to explain one circumstance — Teach me but to un “ravel it agreeable to my wishes, and you will deliver me from the greatest hor “rors!
“What can all this mean? If you are merely the person you give yourself for, and capable of descending to the improprieties imputed ** to you, why your cruel preference of Lord ** Kennington to me? I would have Saved you ** from every miserable consequence of infamy. “Affluence should have dwelled with you, and “the voice of reflsdion been totally stopped.
You
miss S O M M E R VI L E..
« Nbu should not have been under the necefli “ty of flying the world, to avoid its censures;;
“worlds approbation should have been at “your command, unless wilfully forfeited by. “any outrage against appearances.
“But it was not a guilty conne61ion I sought “with you; the amiable qualifications you pof “felted. — Oh!! never can be that you are “contaminated. — You conceal yourself equal“ “from that fellow as from me; and you “have not been long enough in Dublin to be : “seduced“
“my beloved Patty! what language “can I use to prevail upon you to be just to “yourself and generous to me? Only clear up “the fuspicions of my friends; I want no new “proofs of your merit; and put the scheme I “proposed into execution. I cannot live without you! surely you will not Sacrifice a life to “idle Scruples.
“I do not ask any further account of you “than Miss Kennington can give respedling one “, particular: — be it your biifinefs only to com“ “the happy information,; that you “consent to be mine. ■ The world’s opinion has “no weight with me. — Vice I most certainly “abjure; but the refle61ions - of the envious I “know how to despise 1 and shall always re“ “.
flfilyo
I
I $ L E IV
/
178   op
LETTER XLIII
Miss Price to miss Kennington.
iarri greatly dlfcomposed by what has happened; we are never less secure than when we have no apprehension of danger.
Mrs. Bateman and I had Scarcely dined before a coach stopped at the door: she appeared confused, and hastily withdrew; — for my part I had no suspicion, consequently felt no alarm until she returned with affected parade, introducing your fine uncle, the venerable earl of Kennington.
— I was both piqued and Surprised. — “This is the most unexpected favour (Said the ill dissembler); I thought your Lordship had been out of town.”
And this is the most unexpected rencounter, (returned his Lordship, refpe£tfully bowing to me) the lady on earth I could have most wished, but least hoped to meet.”
I am sorry, my Lord, (Said I) you should “refurae a language, at this juncture, you had so lately renounced, from a conviction of its impropriety. I am exactly the same Patty “Price that was permitted, upon Sufferance, to “visit at your house;; I believe Lord Ken“ “never gave a greater instance of con
def
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 179
« defcension on any occasion, than in permitting his niece to countenance her.”
What a Sweet, perverse girl it is, Mrs.
« Bateman I (exclaimed he in his odd manner)
« but Surely, she is not incorrigible; a better aquaintance with herself and friends will teach her to See things in a different light. — How “long, pray, have you and Mrs. Bateman been on Such good terms ?”
You may Spare your inquiry, sir, (said I, " rather fretfully; for I was piqued at the inci dent) whilst 1 am present, at least; I doubt not but you will find an. opportunity” —
— To pay my devoirs to you (returned he)depend upon it, my fair creature! no “opportunity shall escape me: you will know “how entirely my heart is Subdued!” '
** This is very extraordinary! (said I, with a view to fet him once more right.) It is not ‘‘ many days Since 1 Spent an evening at Lord << kennington’s'; his Lordship was then gay and polite but perfeqly rational; nor did he attempt to affront me with unmeaning adu ■ '^‘tation.”
** Mrs. Bateman, Said he, hastily) I haust beg “of you to retire : Some little affairs require ** fettling between this lady and me, that will ‘‘ not bear a witness. I am a man of honour “— and expefit to be obliged : — be assured it will occasion no enmity.”
My Lord is not a formidable obje«9:, — and and it would have been the height of folly, in my Situation to oppqfe his request. Mrs. Bateman therefore curtsied, and withdrew.
** It is time for us, my dear girl; (Said your ** relation) to come to an explanation; you have
“used
/
  of
‘‘ used me ungenerously; and what is still ‘‘ worse, affronted my understanding.
Your finesse (continued he) with refpeff to the letter; I could pardon, if it had been practised upon a man of fess experience than myself; but the bare supposition that so poor a «« deception could pafs with me, is never to be forgiven. As to exposing me to my niece, << making her the conveyancer (if not inspector
«« your pretty reply, can even that be defend ‘‘ ed? and, I doubt not but your little fatyrical hearts mauled me in private.”
“It is cruel my Lord, for the mighty to op. press the weak !” —
“Oppress 1” — Come, come, Patty, (said he, endeavouring to take my "hand) let me ** have no whining; I now demand a verbal answer to the proposal that audacious villain was so hardy as to make you : he is my very inti mate friend, and a conquest, I must tell you, “of feme importance.”
You are fensible, str, (replied I) I am under feme obligations to your family; but that’s out of the c|uestion : it is not in my nature to give offence to any one, if it could be avoided— — if you compel me to speak my sentiments— —
« my dear Miss 1 (twirling his hand) Speak, speak then, but literally, and I am “content.”
Then, Sir, your letter vas not more de testable to me the first moment I received it' “than at this jumflure; nor can my opinion of it change.”
‘‘ Patty Price, (said he, with great stgnifi cance) look on me. — • How long have you
been
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. ii
“been under abje6i: circumstances. — If either “caprice or misfortune has reduced you to the state I find you in, I have done; — but if you “was born to labour, you cannot rejedi my propofals.’^
I must take the liberty of telling your lord ship, (returned I with Some warmth) your judgement is erroneous; honesty is but an “humbler name for honour, and thousands of ‘‘ the meanest condition are as happy enthu “Siasts to the one, as everyday proves Some “of the greatest are to the other.”
“Mere cant; (cried he, sheering) the conse “quence of low breeding. I never till this in stant really fufpeq; ed you to be poorly born. You have, nevertheless, Seen but little of life, or you would be sensible that what you call “vice, and make Such a horrible bustle about, “is the very essence of gallantry and charadle “ristic of gentility. But I perceive that Mr. Shugburgh has been tampering with you, who, because his constitution had been cooled “in the falt water, would deprive his friend of his best enjoyments. But I have a word more for your consideration; you see how Mrs. Bateman lives; do you give into the same amusements; your appearance, your expenses shall not be inferior to hers, and by her alone “shall they be supported. I will never visit at her house, claim your acquaintance in public, nor in my most unguarded moments, boast of a Single favour. Only let us fix upon some“ “retreat for our interviews, which shall ■ be regulated and restrained by your inclina tion.”
<< It
i82 The:   oe»
I can hear no more; (it was Surely time to “fly out.) What can encourage you thus gross « to aflfront me! — the poor presumption of your superiority;; ■ — know, — yet to un deceive you, would be to gratify and indulge your impertinent curiosity. And So it seems“ “Lord, .your pride is mortified that a little tradefwoman should prefer, an agreeable inr duflry, to living with you upon the most disgraceful terms; but,, believe me, there is very « little merit in resisting what, cannot amount to a temptation.. If I must fall a prey to ** vice. Lord Kennington should not be the man.” —
“No, madam, j(grinning malicious) not, perhaps « whilst the strutting Bradshaw was in the way; “a formidable, rival, upon my honour! — but I have no time for trifling; 1 command here; “and if you don’t think proper to relax some“ “of your severity— — must retuin « to your shop again, I think.”
« It is well, my Lord, (cried I disdainfully ** that shop will ever prove, an asylum to me « beyond the reach of your.utmost malice; the “mistress of it knows me from my infancy.? How the wretch was galled to hear I had one strong hold on earth!
« It is Simple, Patty, (said he, in his moll “insinuating way) to push things to Such extremities. — ■ I am warm and you are very pro“ “; but you know your power. — It will “be your own fault if a word of this tranfpires to Mrs, Bateman— — day or two’s cool “rest efiion may be useful.”
Hear me, my Lord, — I will keep no dishonourable secretsi would h&ve said— —

I
 83
but he was gone — and Mrs. Bateman retired to her apartment for the remainder of the day; — she had not the confidence to encounter the dependant on her bounty. — So weak is guilt! So powerful is innocence!
I am Sorry, for the honour of my Sex, that Some circumstances refpesiing me are rather Singular, as I am convinced I should have a6led upon the same principles, let my birth or education have been ever so low. — Those who have any true sense of virtue, would not forsake her paths for all the allurements and advantages vice could bestow. — The heart and head perfe6uy correspond; Sentiment, confirmed by reason, and reason improved by Sentiment; — nor is it necessary to be well-bred, or to possess the finest understanding to make a proper ele6tion, where the mind is uncorrupted.
What a quantity I have wrote! — yet not one word of Lord Finly. — It is his dissatisfaflions a lone that sit heavy upon me. — Tell me all you have Said and done! — Make but his peace, and you will restore my happiness.
I am, sic.
Price.
letter XLIV
Miss Kensington to Miss Carey.,
HOW natural, Dolly, when anything dif gusts or offends us, to exclaim against the / world;
i8
world; but, believe me, its inhabitants are alone the proper objefls of disgust.
For my owm part, I can safely Say, I wish“ “had been boin Some humble cottager; and, never Seen life So great. So vain !”
One encouragement from my mother, and I will fairly renounce these Splendid vicious Scenes.
I am So disturbed I cannot write cotresuy : this Lord, this Lord, is the head, and I hope the tail of our family. This is. the matter.
Patty and I had enjoyed several happy interviews at Mrs, bateman’s. We perfe6tly idolised the wretch for her goodness and humanity; the guilty alone are suspicious; So that it is no refle(&ion upon us that our hearts glowed with grateful confidence.
I have, from time to time, described her behaviour. Could you have fufpe6led she was merely a creature of my lord’s, performing for hire the basest and most unworthy businefs in nature? I am called away.
*• *, * »
Nothing but calamities! Lady Sarah and Mr. Shugburgh, I suppose by his lordship’s management, dined abroad. Vexation and dlfplea fure were visible in his countenance.
He was not disposed to eat himself, and but little considered my appetite. “Have you done ?” Said he, Snappishly. I bowed in confusion, and he ordered the cloth to be removed before I had half finished my meal.
“A very pretty return, Mrs. Sarah, (Said he the moment he had an opportunity) you have “been pleased to make to all my kindness— —

» t
 85
Little did I suspe6i you was encouraging that “watery headed fellow to aspire to an alliance “with my family, or I should have broke his “measures long ago. I suppose you know no“ “of his brother’s affronting me with proposals; — but I perceive it is your method, “when you are ashamed of your condu6l, to “wrap yourself up in a contemptuous Silence.” “Be assured, my Lord, if I could reply to
“your fatisfadfion -- ”
With your leave, madam, I will finish your << wise Speech for you. — If you could make it “appear that you was neither ungrateful nor “disobedient, you would not be at a loss for a reply; but you have a mean soul, and no « better things could be expected from you.
You may, however, inform your Spark, by “the very first opportunity, that I will never consent to the match, though you are in eve ry sense of the word a beggar, except in your hateful consanguinity“
“know it would please you, (resumed he) to send you back to your fine artful mother; “for which reason I shall not think of it. — You “deserve punishment, and shall meet with it at “my hands.
“Lord Finly, (added he, with the utmost displeasure) might have been yours, if you “had had common sense— — have made a noble preference. Take it from me, howe ver, that you shall not choose for yourself— — have a man in my eye, and shall introduce “him in a few days; he is prepared to encoun ter a Sullen untradlable girl; therefore will ‘o neither be mortified nor disappointed: : need you try any foolish experiments upon his
“difposi
■i26 The H I S T O R Y of
‘‘ disposition; for, Supported with my intereffy he knows not to retreat.”
The storm is now beginning to reach me, and most unfit am I to stand against it. But whatever steps his Lordship may compel me to take, I defy him to make a wife of me without my own consent: we shall have a trial for it, and perhaps, in the end, the weakest may be found the strongest..
I will borrow Some of patty’s Spirit; she can brave the shafts of adversity; nor am I Such a puny infecf as to be easily beat down.
Do feel my mother’s pulse, she was ever tender and indulgent; but I will not leave Patty behind; and, perhaps, she cannot be prevailed upon to receive a stranger; be you our advocate, and deliver us both from miserable persecution. I am, with due remembrances, most affet^ionately yours,
S. Kennington.
LETTER LXV
Lady Sarah Kennington to Miss Turner.
The hour,, my dear Miss Turner, is at last arrived, when the hateful Patty Price must pay for all her folly and presumption. 1 own I have long cast about for a means of punishing her, without effe6b: her party was so strong there was no getting at her; but accident has accomplished what a, rtifice could not reach.
Preston
Miss SOMMER VILE. 1s7
Preston and Squib, her mortal enemies, ^ have made a match of it. I have an objection to married women about my person, and have, therefore, amicably discharged her,
She happened to have a relation newly arrived from Devonshire, whose interest she wished to promote, consequently recommended her to my Service, She is a very decent,, a very pretty looking girl.
But do not conclude, that I am So distressed for a subject as to defcenstto my attendants, unless there was meaning in it. I would tell you, that as our family still rings with Patty price’s perfections, this young woman shrewdly fuf pedls she is very well acquainted with her, and I have engaged to procure her a.fight of her Ladyship.
It would be charming to come at her history: : there must be Something very extraordinary in it though, by this person’s behaviour; for she does not choose to mention? particulars until she is Satisfied she is not mistaken,.
Your sister is so infatuated as to harbour her at her house: : it Seems, drove .her from her honest employment by a little gaiety of heart; and the wife Mrs. Bateman instantly received her; but my father was at the bottom of that business.
We are to have a wedding; a great fellow; with a fortune as big as himself, has been captivated by our Sarah; — but the dear soul is as av verse to the amour, as her uncle is anxious for its termination. • — A dutiful creature she will prove, I dare believe!
Bob and Mr. Bradshaw are blown from our house by his lordship’s displeasure. The pulling
i8
ling mortal had the audacity to get his brother in the West to propose him for a hustand for our cousin.
You know his Lordstiip is warm; but you can have no idea how he flamed upon this oc caston.
He, indeed, took the hint of marrying her to Mr. Smith from me; I plainly discovered his affection for her; nor shall his pretensions be un lupported.
I wish my father was half as much difgustesh with Dublin as I am; not one happy day have I yet seen in it'; but I must be content. — Some lucky hit may, perhaps, change the face of things: victory. Turner, does not always run in the same channel.
His Lordship long wished I would have beheld Mr. Smith with an eye of favour; — but, unfortunately for him, he did not please my fancy. — I am a little nice, you know, or I can assure you Miss Sarah had been overlooked; but, rather than not be allied to me, he condescends to take her.
Shugburgh is not of the council, as we are persuaded he would dissent from our opinion; but you are fensible his power with my father is very limited, therefore, no bad consequence can result from his knowledge of it in due season.
I have no news, no subject for amusement; but am as dull as the dullest inhabitant of this foggy city; and can only add, that I will give you the earliest notice of whatever concerns us.
I am, cs.
Kennington.
LET
Miss SOMMER VILE. 189
LETTER XLVI
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
WE have, my dear boy, received our dlf million from the earl’s in rather disgraceful terms, indeed; but no matter, one friend still remains in the garrison, nor do vve utterly despair.
The humility of bob’s fortune, exclusive of your bounty, and the narrowness of kenning ton’s soul, preventing all belief of such furpri stng generosity, has thrown us out of our chance: add to which, he is resolved to make her miserable at all adventures, and is, at present, most warmly attached to one Smith, a fellow I remember to have Seen at Some public place or other; but know nothing of his connexions.
Was Miss kennington’s heart as free as on our first acquaintance, Smith would never have been the object of her approbation. He leads a most debauched life in this city, and, without the least prejudice, is the roughest porterly fellow I ever met with.
The poor girl will most certainly undergo a fiery persecution: — she is naturally meek and yielding; but love is a wonderful improver of the Spirits and strengthener of the will; nor should I be Surprised if she should entirely renounce the softness of her character to preserve lierfelf from violence.
Her
19
Her language upon common Subjects is engaging; hut she has had am opportunity of displaying her best abilities in the literary way, together with the goodness, the tenderness of her difposition, and her most extraordinary capacity for amicable friendship.
You will perhaps be aware, by this just encomium on Miss Kennington, that Patty Price is Soon to be introduced; for the commendation of the one infenstbly leads to the commendation of the other.
But it would be no easy talk to describe my feelings refpefling the latter. self condemnation, renewed esteem, a convi6l; ion of my own folly, cruelty, and injustice, and her purity, integrity, and greatness of soul, Succestivejy torment and distress me I
Lord kennington’s basenefs was no deception; but patty’s letter to her friend was didated a lone by conscious virtue and innocent vivacity: enclosed was the Severest rebuke she could possibly bestow, conveyed in such terms as could not fail to mortify and Search the most callous heart, at the Same time that it deprived that heart of all power of resentment. But let your own eyes convince you of her Sentiments and Spirit, though to my shame and confusion, for having treated her So unworthily.
She is now at Mrs. bateman’s. I little siif pedfed from what motive we were shunned by the widow; but we have incurred her patron’s displeafure, consequently should be very unwelcome visstants at her house.
I cannot be Satisfied without obtaining an interview, though but for a few moments, with the dear injured girl: I have no doubt but my
V contrition
I
Miss S D M M E R VI L E. 191
contrition will be accepted, notwithstanding the enormity of my tranfgrestion; the generous, Harry, and the brave, know both to pity and forgive, even their greatest enemies!
Lord Finly is reconfirmed in his resolution of marrying her, if he can but prevail upon her to consent; but she makes Such nice distinctions, and enters so minutely into circumstances, that I greatly doubt his success. The woman that could disdain to she for favourable consideration, and composedly receive unmerited censure and abuse, must be capable of perfisting in whatever she deems an eltential point of propriety.
I shall henceforth endeavour to promote what I have so officiousty opposed. Was it for me to interfere in the difposition Lord Finly was pleased to make of his person or fortune? Should IHAVE been the least shfferer by his advancing a lovely girl to a condition, however Splendid, that she was born to grace; or should I have derived the Smallest benefits from the disappointment of his wishes? It was a mean contemptible conduct, and shall be renounced. Finly is not accountable to any one for his actions; he is the last branch of that ancient family; and, in cafe of his decease without male issue, the title will devolve to a distant line.
I must tamper with Some of the widow’s Servants to procure the conveyance of a penitential epistle; and if all the eloquence I am master of can be Serviceable to Finly, patty’s Sentimental obstinacy shall be overcome.
I will acknowledge to you, by way of penance for past transgressions, that nothing but the certainty of my being an alien to patty’s affection,

19
fefition, could have restrained me from the strongest attachment to her.
I find the human heart may be insenstbly drawn on, from approbation to friendship, and from friendship to love.
I have, in vain, endeavoured to impose upon myself— — — you; — for, till this moment that reason predominates, remorse mortifies and com pastion Softens my soul, I have been a^ing upon the most unworthy principles of jealousy and cruelty: for notwithstanding I was palpably convinced that Lord finly^s happiness depended upon his union with this Sweet girl, who, through all her modest reserve vas as evidently attached to him. I could not reconcile myself to receiving for a friend, the woman who would never, on the most honourable terms, have been my mistress, and whose friendship and good opinion I could never otherwise obtain.
I shall reap no inconsiderable advantage, Harry, from this slight wo^nd; — it will cure my infidelity refpefiting other mprtals, and Secure me from too great confidence in myself for the future. ^
— To play with fire, is the way to burn our fingers; and conversing too frequently with an agreeable female, is the same thing as baring our bosoms to the pointed steel.
I will not rest until I have made compensation for my error. — How despicable a light I must appear in! — yet it is not my charafiter to be a monster; this Angle passion eradicated, and she will see my natural Self: with you I am allowed to have Some merit; and your judgement is so unexceptionable that it may be relied on; — nor is your brother disinclined to think favourably of
me; —
 93
me; — ■ he will convince his beloved Miss ken nington of the happy change in my difposstion, and she will effectually remove the hateful impression Patty must have received of,
my dear Harry, yours, Stc.
Bradshaw.
LETTER XLVII
Miss Kennington to Miss Carey.
IT is, my dear Dolly, with the utmost reluctance that I enter upon a fubjedf, the most painful and dipleasing of any I ever met with.
Misfortunes to myself or friend I could have born like a philosopher; but the knowledge I have acquired is beyond expression afflidfing.
Lady sarah’s disagreeable attendant has been gone above a week, and her place Supplied by an exceeding good kind of young woman, who is very obliging to me. i
She had fought Several opportunities of ferv ft ing me; as patty’s sstuation at Mrs. bateman’s' had been discovered by my Lord to Lady Sarahs I was at length persuaded to intrust her with a letter of little more consequence than a how do you do, to her.
She Seemed pleased with her commission, and, ’' I dare believe, executed it faithfully; but I perceived, at her return, that her countenance was greatly disturbed, and, naturally enough inquired into the cause.
vol. II K « I hope.
19
‘‘ I hope, madam, (said she, hesitating) you will not be angry with me; but that young woman. — ”
What? who, Patty Price? (demanded “I, hastily.) Do you know anything of her
‘‘ Know her, madam I only as well as I do myself; but I am convinced that is more than you do, or you w’ould never take So much notice of her.”
Take care, Mrs. Bret, (Said I) I have no ** reason, it is true, to doubt your veracity; but “she is a person I have a high esteem for; and it is not a little matter would occasion me to “withdraw it.”
“Nay, madam, I have done : I am hire I never shall be a gainer by her in any respect
** I need not lose- -- ”
/»
not be so hasty, (refuhied I, encoura ging her); I did not wish to restrain you “from speaking the truth; but to recoiled; yourself perfedily, lest you should be mistaken.”
“Mistaken I no, no, madam! I am not so eassly mistaken! many a pair of shoes has sirs her father heel pieced for me, and an honest worthy man he was : if her mother had been equally good, Patty would not have been the girl she now is; but she would make a fine so.« lady of her, and the consequence was na ^v}‘ tural.”
It is impossible! (exclaimed I) her father a w cobbler! I cannot believe it!”
“Nay, madam, (returned she, rather difcon ‘‘ certed) I did not say any such thing; — we lived in a little town, and he was both stioe ■ “maker
 95
« maker and mender, and got a great deal of « money by his industry, which his wife and this girl took care to Spend.
« The mother had a sister at Exeter that A kept an inn, and miss was Sent there for edu “cation. She learned all that could be learned at “a country School; and having an opportunity “of flirting with officers, and the command of “money, was at fifteen a most finished lady; — “but about six months ago, a corporal of light « horse, that was quartered at her aunt’s, was detected in Some very unbecoming liberties « with her, which occasioned her aunt to turn her out of doors.
“She was prepared, it Seems, (continued she) fora march, — a different way indeed; but « her fellow took a fever and died; and she was never Seen afterwards at Exeter.”
I cannot have the least doubt of the truth of this relation. What interest could the girl have in inventing Such a tale? But I am most reluctantly undeceived; and, as I never was a Sufferer by the deception, could almost wish it had continued. — What unaccountable folly {
. She must be a base dissembler!! — Lord Finly to have escaped her toils! I had wrote him a long letter, explaining the affair of my uncle to his utmost wish; and must now, from principle, make him acquainted with what I lave heard, or I should confider myself as acces fary to any fatal consequence.
Lady Sarah, Lord Kennington! — ‘how “shall I Support the shock of their exulta“ “! — but Mr. Shugburgh will bring me “through that, as well as every other exi “gence.”
K 2 I am
ig
I am exceedingly miserable at this jun; ure. This man, my Lord has chosen for me, is so bold and Self sufficient, that he does not even, give me an opportunity of refussng him. He is a Second Petriichio, and has been instrufled, no. doubt, by Lord Kennington to tame the miserable jhrew) or he could never play his card So artfully.
I am ripe for rebellion, but my best assistant has failed me; and I am So poor and helpless a being of myself, that .1 fear I shall fall a sacrifice to my lord’s ambition and this wretch’s confidence:
Has my mother quite forgot her darling child? and will not her paternal arms be open to receive me r • — .Dh! if she loved my father, she cannot' deny her protection to his Second Self; for am I not reckoned his very image? I can no more! what will, alas I become of me, if she and you should forfakeme! Adieu.
LETTER XLVIII
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
Another letter, my Harry, from Miss Kennington! what can it mean? Are patty’s resolves so Soon overcome? and am I deprived of an opportunity of being reconciled to .myself by one good adiion?
Methinks it would have been more in character, after Such violent protestations, to have
yielded
Mrss SOMMER VILE. 197
yielded less abruptly; but it is a nice point tcy observe due medi tcrity on any occasson. — » Sh Is a woman, Harry, whjch you know is but another name for frailty.
* * *
* «
The wifest people, in Some refpe£ls, are the easiest duped; especially: if their principles' are just and equitable, Miss Kennington was apparently a timid creature; but, as to the article of understanding, perfectly unexceptionable: .^ — yet has she suffered herself to bd imposed upon by Lady sarah’s artistce and .malice, in the most egregious degree.
/ Patty, lowborn and viciousty bred, the inhabitant of an inn, the mistress of a light horfeman, a vagabond, a runaway; has not even the face CL probability, and can only be heard, to be rejected and despised. No, the happy deletion of my late error has enabled me to form .a better judgement of things, than to swallow so pitiful, so unnatural a bait.
I am, for once, moist unexpectedly indebted to fortune, for favouring my wishes; and shall yet be the instrument of good to the much injured Patty, and conciliate her valuable esteem without an advocate.
There is a fellow at Mrs. bateman’s with a very intelligent tho’ roguish aspect; I will lie in wait for him,, and, if he has one spark of vanity or ambition in his whole composttion, win him to mv purpose.
I will immediately to dartmouth street, bespeak a quantity of things, pay for them beforehand, ' for the woman’s Security, and then ssft her
K 3 with
ips   of
with all my art. She must either have had Some acquaintance with Patty, or very extraordinary recommendation of her, cr she would never
have received her into her house- --; I
will be with you again presently
# * * *
O Harry I I found the gcod, the affes ionate milliner in astli6fion and tears on patty’s account; she has been conveyed from Mrs. bateman’s, to ■what place, or for what purpose, is it possible to judge.
Can she have put herself under Mr. shug hurgh’s protedfion? or has the vile tale of her birth, education, and condud, been invented to deprive her of his countenance? Lord kenning tonne durst not, could not violently, or at least secretly, bear her off; Some vestige would have remained.
Mrs. Bateman would not See this good crea ture; but returned for answer to her tender inquiries, That she was ignorant of the new stage Mrs. Patty appeared upon; but thought “her wise in decamping at the instant of detection“
“is hard Sir (Said Mrs. Trueman) to be de“ “a reasonable piece of information, where one’s own interest alone is concerned; but “when the well-being of the best and dearest friend we have upon earth is at stake, it be“ “infnpportable. Miss Patty ill deserves ‘‘ the treatment she has met with. — Mr. Slug“ “Lord Kennington, all are against her! “nay, even the good-natured Miss Kennington tacitly approves their Severity!
I pity
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 19/
“I pity their limited sight and narrow judgments, (continued she.) — Miss patty’s ap pearance and behaviour bespeak her what she « is; — few cobblers daughters — but I am fi“ “by her injundtion, and they shall still “hug their error for me. If my resolution is “but equal to Support her absence, she shall not “be betrayed.”
I can never believe, (Said I) that Mr. shug burgh’s face is Set against her, however, poor Miss Kennington may be misted; but in “what respect, madam, could Miss Price be “injured by your revealing her family, if neither “mean nor unworthy. Perhaps you might “more effedlually Serve her by disobeying, than
‘‘ complying with her commands.” -- -- -- -- -
“I own, sir, I do not see with the same eyes; “for the heart that would resist the imprefiion of “her merit, cannot be very susceptible of any other. Humanity is no refpedter of persons; life “and health are equally precious to the prince and the beggar; and Miss Patty ought now to ‘‘ be as much the object of your consideration“ “being a worthy and oppressed individual, “as if you was convinced she was the heiress of “a baronet.”
I, sir, (added she) am but little disposed for “conversation, unless I could be useful to my “injured friend. If you now doubt her worthy “it cannot be in the power of argument to con“ “your unbelief; and if you do not judge ” her hardly, can you have a more noble or “more generous purshit than discovering what “hands she is fallen into? — Everything is prac “ticable with your Sex; — but we are born tc “difficulties, helplesshefs, and censure.”
K 4 I have
ioo   o?
✓
I have now nothing to depend upon but the fellow I mentioned., Finly and Bob shall remain' ignorant of this affair until I have, in some measure, unravelled it.
Do not applaud my resolution;; Harry, I blush to acknowledge that I fear I am more anxious for the honour of Serving Patty, than tender of poor finly’s repose; however, he will be Spared many hours Suffering, let my motive be what it may.
\
^
I have patroled the street the whole afternoon; but my success has, by no means, equalled the goodness of my cause. I will renew my walk after Supper until twelve.
May your pillow, this night, afford you the Soft stumbers of tranquillity, which an imperial canopy could not bestow upon
your, c.
Bradshaw.
LETTER XLIX
/
Miss Kennington to Mils Carey.
_ 9
SINCE I am deprived, my Dolly, of my grand fubjedf, I must, of necessity, descend to a less important one. This Smith that torments me with his horrid addresses, is the fellow on earth that would be the most hateful to
you:
Miss SOMME RVILE. 201
you: yet does he conceive hlmfelf Secure of my heart and hand; nor once fufpests it possible' that he can be an objedi of disgust and detestation 1
I
Mr. Shugburgh is but newly, acquainted .with their intentionshe shrugs his shoulders, stghs, — and regards me with compashon; but he is a man of Such nice honour, that he would never countenance a breach of duty or friendship, but from extraordinary motives..
IS my mother .could be prevailed upon, to pay fonre attention to her child’s happiness, I am certain, she has>the power of obviating his ob jesiion to poor Mr. Fleetwood. •.
I Send, you enclosed a copy of his brother’s generous pfoposalsi You are intimate with a family that is a near neighbour of this elder gen » tleman’s, and to them I refer you for the character of each of them. >
But my mother’s Silence and neglefi of me terrifies me! — What can I apprehend to be the cause?? — she. be displeased with any part of my conduct? — Has any one attempted to prejudice her against me? Or has (yet I shudder at ^ the bare idea of such a thing— — she entered’., into any nev. connexion.;
I, indeed, have no right to judge, ' condemn, or even question her; but. Surely, she will forgive the tender anxiety of an affectionate child, accustomed to receive every mark of maternal goodness, every token of pajentafconfideration.
I will not be trifled with, Dolly, upon this head : you have. Several times, waved or disregarded my interrogatories; but I am now determined to know the very worst, nay, tho’ the ca
K 5 lamity
2, 0
/
lamity should even exceed my frighted imagi nastqn!
dotsot forsake me, oh, my dear mother! nor you, my dear friend, at this formidable period, i cannot accept Mr. Smith for my husband, nor will my stubborn heart forego its attachment to Mr. Fleetwood. Do but once reconcile my duty and love, and no heroine was ever more enterprising than I would become!
My uncle does not even intend to pay my mother the compliment of consulting her upon the occaston. — Who can condemn his wisdom, when a handsome jointure is to be secured to me, and he is to have the loan of a considerable sura continued to him at a very low interest during his life? — Will you not interrupt the execution of Such horrid bartering?
Patty — but I resolved not to mention her; C. yet 1 must sell you, poor Patty has confirmed the evil report against her by flying the field. Mrs. Bateman came to inform us of her departure, and laid many heavy things to her charge,
which I utterly disbelieve
•/
Sarah affects great moderation upon the cccafion : but I fear it is merely affesation; for she has a truly malicious and revengeful heart.
My Lord will not suffer her name to be mentioned before him; he is outrageous in his resentment— — passion and mortified pride are powerful agitators.
As to rriystlf, I feel as if awaking from a most horrible dream; — the impression is So strong that I can hardly doubt its reality, notwithstanding a fcmething whispers me, to recollect its impropriety and want of connexion.
Mr.
Miss S O M M E R V I L E, 203
Mr. Shugburgh is still himself— — one ac cusation or refledfion has escaped his lips; — he is more thoughtful than usual— — his head infensibly, and cries, ** Poor thing! was it for
this she refused So many great offers ?’*
A mean looking woman, it Seems, has been to inquire after her, and was quite clamorous and abustve, because Mrs. Bret would not introduce her to me., I was so low fpirited thatl really was much indebted to her caution, for Saving me the trouble of refustng her, *.
I; am naturally unfit for rough encounters; ■ but more particularly so at this season..
Fleetwood has wrote me a very tender letter, and I, in return, have given him every satisfa6lion in my power; but have declared, (in the same instant, that I promise never to receive another man for myshushand) that I never will be his without my mother’s sanction and con ^ i fent.
If he has the matter as much at heart as he * pretends, you will go near to receive a visit from; his brother..
He is a ^well bred man, Dolly, and would ■ come upon no unjustifiable errand; — but, my dear mother and you too well understand the treatment due to a gentleman, to need any in: strudions from Such a mushroom as
yours, ci
»
'' f... > ^
20
’*^''c0oc''^'’oc0o''^^''omo*‘^’'0000*'^^**co0o*>^"c06o'’^**o09o'*^**#oo0'*^^'0#00'*^*’c0##»^^r'.
^ C s s : s : i : i t.
/
LETTER L
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
I Did not fail, Harry, to be Sufficiently early at my destined post, in a shabby coat that gave me rather the appearance of a fiddler than a gentleman; and as all sorts of cornpany are welcome at Mrs. bateman’s, I dare say Robert will neither conceive an opinion of me Superior to that charafiter, nor be Surprised to recolle: his having stood behind my chair at his mistress’s table.
An hour and an half elapsed before one creature came forth from Mrs. bateman’s; but, at length, I had the satisfa6i: ion to perceive, by ihe light of the lamp, the very fellow I had marked down for my purpose, and had no great difficulty to prevail upon him to give me his company at an adjacent tavern.
A bottle of wine was brought, and he Soon entered into that familiarity I wished, Sung me a good Song, and tod two or three excellent adventures he had been engaged in. This you will say, was fetching a violent compass; but it brought us, in due time, to the destred point.
“And pray, Mr. Robert, (Said I) how does “your lady and miss Price agree now? Fe“ “friendships are Seldom durable; and I “really think, according to the old proverb, “Theirs was abundantly tco hot to hold.”
o
/ -
/
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 205
O Sir I (returned he with a most ssgnifi cant look) there were reasons of state for all “my mistrefs’s proceedings; a wheel within a “wheel is no unusual thing, sir : — and, sir, my very humble Service to you.”
You are very drole, Mr. Robert; but I suppose it is necestary to be pretty clever to wait upon Mrs. Bateman; she is a woman of << amusement, and sees much company.”
“The Scene is ever shifting, (resumed he) ‘‘ from one folly to another: in short, sir, these great folks are mighty apt to conclude that “we little ones, their domestics, are arrant dri veliers. Such hints. Such conversation paf ‘‘ Ses often at table; — but I never was a blab: — “and So, if you please, we will drink the la“ “healths.”
“If you include Miss Patty in the number, “(replied I) I have no objeslion; otherwise, to be plain with you, I fiiould iiot be much “inclined to bestow So great a compliment up“ “them. '
“Mrs. Bateman is a very agreeable woman; “but I am not io happy as to be a favourite “with her; and we Seldom love those, Mr. “Robert, who slight us: — and. For miss Turn“ “— Your good health, my friend; we will “say nothing about her.”
“She is a tiger (cried he) in her disposition;; “certain; nor does her Sister want for “Spirit on cccafion; but she always treated Patty (the rastal) with civility, until the other “day, when it see ns she was informed of her being the most unworthy aswvell as meanest “of creatures. She then resolved to get rid of her; but I do not think she would have been
“So
2o6 The H I S T O R Y of
« So rigorous, if Lord Kennington had not insisted upon it.”
“You deal in riddles, my friend, (said I) I hope you do not believe me capable of abu sing any confidence you might repose in me. ** I have no finall interest in patty’s affairs; and “— I stipt a see into his hand, — which, alone, can open (or most effectually silence) the wide ** pleader.”
** I don’: See why I should be afraid of fpeak irrg (obfer#ed he as he pocketted the Mrs. Bateman is notorious for refuling to give “a character of any Servant that leaves her, however deserving.”
It, is not, therefore, well to miss an op << portunityi, (ff making a friend : — and So sir, to our beiler acquaintance; and now I will tell you
I drew my chair quite close to the table, breathed with the utmost caution, for fear .of inter i rnpting him, t^nd as impatiently waited for the movement of^is lips, as a member for the return of the woes at a doubtful election..
length, 'f Why, sir? you must know, that we servants have a means of intelligence pe“ “to ourstlves, which I need not communicate. Many letters passed between Lord “Kennington and my Lady, as well as private consultation, before this Patty was introduced. ** at our hoiife. We understood the whole clue. She came, my mistrcts affecfed great affecfion for her, and my Lord was for ever pressing to drop in as if by accident.
My mistress kept him off as long as she “could, as she was ienfible Patty had too much “understanding not to see through her arts;
« but
Miss SOMME RVILE. 207
« but, at last, his lordship’s impatience got the << better of her fears. He came; she left them together, to the little satisfaction of each par ty. This will never do, (said my Lord to my mistress, as she waited on him to the door), « we must fix on Some other means.”
She is a whimsical girl, make the best of her (Said my mistress) but your Lordship ‘‘ may depend on me.”
‘‘ In a few days he renewed his visit; but “with no better success than before: but, perhaps, I tyre you.”
“You oblige me extremely (said I, apprehensive, lest a Sudden qualm of conscience“ “seized him); take your glass and pro ceed.”
His Lordship and my mistress, (resumed he, bowing) vere shut up for some hours: — high words pasted, — my mistress was vexed, and,
I am certain, shed many tearsfor her eyes ‘‘ were red the whole day after. TWAS sent for “an attorney, who received diredlions to make “out a long bill for board and money lent, ‘‘ merely to intimidate her, and take out a writ immediately: — in a word, sir, the poor girl was arrested the next morning. — You seem disturbed; I hope she Was no relation of ‘‘ yours; — but I beg your pardon; I had forgot how everything came out.”
“Do not mind me, Mr. Robert (astuming all possible composure); but proceed with your story.”
To be sure, she went most bitterly, (added“ “and looked at Ti; many times, as if she “had asked me to pity her.”
“The bailiff was a rough, ill natured fellow.”

2o8 The H I S T O R Y of
“low.” It is to no purpose to blubbev; (fald “he) make a friend, if you can, and release yourself at once.”
“I had many friends, (Said she) at one perst
od; but fear they have all forsaken me. -- -- -- --
“Might I be indulged with pen and ink ?”
Aye, aye; let her write as much as (he ‘‘ will, (said the bailiff) and we will read it, T think it will be best not to lose time tsto’ — — Is the coach ready?”
J
“Patty, (said my mistress) why will you be' obstinate; you know you may command any Sum you please; but if you are determined to persist in being your own enemy, can you' “wonder at me ?”
“Whatever are my Sentiments, madam, re turned she) you do not hear me complain. • I am ready, gentlemen, to attend you. 1 wilf have no friends, but of my own chustng.” My dear Patty, let me prevail with you (cried my mistress) his Lord — ”
“I have told you, gentlemen, repeated fhey disregarding my mistress) my resolution: : — “me, therefore, wherever you are authorised.”
V
Well, well, young woman, you will Smart “for this, take my word for it (said the bailiff): “the house I shall conduct you to is not so fine as this.”
“'My heart bled for her at that time; but “now I know what she is, I make it matter of laughter. And so, sir, if you please, we will drink our friends in the fponging house. Audacious rascal! but there was no remedy. “My mistress (continued he) took the fellow aside, (for it was all a farce,, on purpcfe to
stiglv
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 209
fright her) and it was determined that she should stay at our house till the next morning;; bailiff to Sit up in the adjoining room to hers.”
“My mistress looked very lagged and dis contented the whole evening.” “I will have ** you go with a message from me, Robert, ‘‘ (said she) to Patty; poor thing! she is very inconsiderate!” “I was then filling her a glass of wine, to her supper, when a great bounce at the door surprised us both! My mistress was terrified!” — Who can it be, “So late !” — ■ I Soon, however, relieved her
anxiety, by bringing her a letter a drunken chairman gave me for her, from Lord ken nington; which laid the whole of patty’s villainy before her.” —
“Well, we will pafs over that part, if you please, (said I). — “How did she behave, afterwards ?”
- Quite like a happy woman; and, indeed, I never pitied her since— — a coach, this instant, Robert, (said she) and see that wick ed wretch but out of ray house, and I shall be Satisfied.” <
“The bailiff Seemed very well pleased at being dismissed: — she got into the coach with great composure; nor once replied to all the “reproaches my lady made her.”
I had heard enough to put me upon the rack. — “I fear I have over staid my time, (Said I, ‘‘ looking at my watch, as if surprised.) You “must finish the bottle yourself, my friend; ** and I hope, we shall meet some other e vening.”
I suppose you are already in imagination at
the
/
to   of
the fponging house, condoling with the lovely ' Sufferer! — But not So fast; — the house was shut up, and I could not, myself, obtain admittance until the next morning.
I never was expert at description; — but it was a horrible place. — There (he sat, pale and wan; yet with that dignity and composure so peculiar to herself.
A faint blush overspread her face, when I approached her, and a sparkle of pleasure for a moment informed her now deje£led eye; but, recollediing the treatment she had received at my hands, she turned away her head with the utmost Signistcance.
I beseech you, madam, (said I) not to add sorrow to the afflicted!! come, at once, to obtain pardon for the past, and to render ** myself serviceable to you. — I am convinced, that you are the worthiest of your sex, and I a presuming, officious — ”
I have been so often deceived, (replied she, in heart wounding accents) that I have no confidence remaining I — My hopes — but,
“pray, what has induced you to make me a. ** visit in this gloomy mansion??
can never be so mean as to submit to “do Lord kennington’s dirty work, notwith standing Mrs. Bateman, by yielding to his “importunity, has brought this unmerited dif “tress upon my miserable head.”
“I deserve the refleqiion, madam, (said I) bitter as it is! but, believe me, to behold you innocent, though in so dreadful a place, gives me more satisfaction than I have words “to express! I had some difficulty to discover ** they had done with you; but, frosh
their
t
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 21 i
their poorly devised tale, I concluded Some “Such mischief had befallen you.”
What then? (returned she, with vlsible fa ‘‘ tisfa6: ion.) Do you discredit that notable re ‘‘ port? I thank you, however, for that piece of kindness. I own you had some grounds “for your former suspicions; but to fall a prey to such little malice is, beyond measure, mortifying— — is a noble bufiness, (added she) ‘‘ to join hands upon, when, Singly, their pow“ “was sufficient to crush So inconssderable a ‘‘ mortal! But there is no part of the evil I have Sustained affedis me, except the loss of “two worthy hearts, that I had flattered my“ “were beyond the reach of even the strong“ “blast of malevolence! Mrs. Bateman tells “me I have not one friend left.”
There must be some mistake, madam, in that particular as well as many others. Miss Kennington, indeed, is neither mistress of her ** time nor inclination; but the honest Slug“ “I wonder he has not made some en quiry about you : I must have some conver “fation with him, and learn his reasons“
“hope. Sir, (Said she) you will do me the justice to inform him, it is all your own zst and deed. — Pride is the infirmity of my na“ “notwithstanding all my reputation for the opposite virtue : nor could I descend to “solicit the friend that was Inclined to with ‘‘ draw himself.”
It would have been to no purpose to oflfer my ashstance; I therefore, took my leave after a little more conversation, and Sought out shug jpurgh, whom I had the pleasure to find was not less warm in her cause than usual.
He
21
He advised the utmost Secrecy in all our steps; • feared there had Been much foul play; but feemr ed difpostd rather to throw the blame upon Mrs. Bateman than my Lord; and promised to call upon me tomorrow morning.
This is a long letter; but i.hope you will'allow pretty much to the purpose. 1 am convinced the father and daughter have been playing into one, another’s hands, without intending it, by which means this worthy girl has been reduced to such deplorable circumstances. But it is a point, that will neither bear, nor is worth, clearing up, as the malice of the one, and the love of the other, have equally miscarried. Adieu, Bradshaw.
s «’ \; .* : *•' \; *•* V L \; %; F \ -. »' \ i i? \ t t
LETTER LI
Miss Carey to^mr. Shugburgk.
I
I Am too well acquainted with your chara6ier and difposition, to apprehend you will be either offended or alarmed at a little trouble. Poor Miss kennington’s misfortunes Seem to multiply upon her head; nor dare I communicate, .but through your means, the melancholy news of her mother’s death.
The double astlidlion her mind laboured under, of penury and the loss of a valuable husband, were too much for her delicate frame, nor did the necessity of parting with her daughter Sit easy upon her heart. She would not, however.
mis S O M M E H V I L E. 213
ever, permit me to give the least intimation of her declining state, as she Said it could only interrupt her child’s pleasures and aggravate her pains, without the least use either to the one or the other.
I have, from real affection (for she was a worthy creature!) as well as the motives of friendship to miss Kennington, omitted no one thing in my power to cheer and support her, though without success. My lord’s favour reached her too late; she died before the purchafe money was paid, and it is now in dispute, who has a proper title ts it. I fear Miss Kennington is not upon such terms with her uncle, as to derive any advantage to herself in this affair; therefore, in my hurrible opinion, it will be best to conceal it as long as possible.
You cannot be So well informed of my principles as I am of yours, or it would be unnecessary to affure you I am incapable of deceiving anyone.
It was Mrs. kennington’s dying request, that her daughter should rather consult her happiness than interest, and accept Mr. fleetwood’s generous proposals.
His brother lives only a few miles from us, and was introduced to our acquaintance one fortnight before Mrs. kennington’s decease: : has given her cor.fent, under hand to that gentleman, which I dare believe he will remit you by the earliest opportunity.
In one of his vistts “I have not a wish (said she to Mr. Fleetwood) beyond bestowing my daughter upon your brother, as youffo warm“ “interest yourself in his fatisfadiions.' I know what love is.; you behold me a martyr
to
f
214 The tllstor Y OF
to the tenderest attachment — ■ yet, perhaps, “all the evil of my life had been prevented, if I had duly attended to the importance of be“ “well received by the family of my husband— — by making your brother happy, will avoid the rock of my destruffion; (for I shall ever think that poor Mr. kennington’s << life was shortened by the ill usage of his re lations on my account) and it is infinitely consoling to me, in these my last moments, to reflect upon her favourable prospects“
“Mr. Shugburgh to perform that «« office the hand of death denied her doting father! and may their union reap the benefits of the departing blessing of a most affedlio nate mother! — Oh, sir! forgive me, if I mention she was both a most lovely and va luable woman! — But all is over, and encomi «« urns are of little use.”
My dear Miss Kennington is now deprived of every proteflion and provision, but what she must either derive from my Lord or Mr. fleet wood. You are no stranger to his cruel purposes; and, should you permit her to be Sacrificed, would be the most inhumane of the two. Pardon my warmth; but the subject requires it: her nature is Soft, gentle, and ill fuited to affliction; — and the grave would Soon hide her for ever from our eyes.
I have no doubt of your inclination to Serve her; but do not, my good sir, suffer that inclination to be restrained or overcome, by any consideration on earth! — Ought anything to be put in competition with So valuable a life?
I am
\
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 215
I am convinced you have the power to Save her; I will therefore, be so bold as to tell you, that I shall require her happiness at your hands; and am, sir, cd. Carey.
LETTER LII
Miss Kennington to Miss Carey.
Things are now, my dear Dolly, approaching to a crisis; my wedding clothes are already providing; judge, then, if my date at Lord kennington’s is not short.
Mr. Shugburgh tells me the winds are against me, or I should be miserably impatient for an answer to my last letter. Do not omit writing by the first opportunity. Poor Patty Price, to what an unhappy state has she brought herself?? — is in custody, my dear, as Mr. Bradshaw informed Mr. Shugburgh yesterday. I wish once more to see her; but know not how to accomplish it. This mortal of a man never leaves me an instant.
Should she procure her enlargement, as I doubt not but she will, by Mr. shugburgh’s means, I will look upon her, with even this e vil one at my elbow, (Since it cannot be avoided) rather than forego the desire of my heart.
Mr. Fleetwood is upon the rack for my determination. What can I say to him? My mother and yourielf have the entire disposal of me.
Mr.
2i
Mr. Shugburgh has been with me — and is it poitible, Dolly, that my dear mother and you are equally unanimous with my inclination? Indeed, you can never repent your favourable sentiments of this worthy young gentleman : — but my commendation will but little avail him, as I shall be supposed to be too partial to judge him fairly.
Had Patty Price — I cannot wean my wishes from her, however convinced of their folly and impropriety. She was all; — but I have done: her gross dissimulation has fet my heart at liberty.
Mr. Shugburgh is to provide a place for my reception : expedition is necessary, or I shall be undone. I am indebted to Lady Sarah for these hasty preparations in Mr. smith’s favour; as Ihe ■ cannot rest, it seems, until I am honourably disposed of.
Honour is with her an empty name, or Ihe would never so vilely prostitute it; for the union that is effected contrary to the inclination, must, of course, be stridlly comformable both with honour and conscience!!
once I was but delivered out of this house, 1 should be in no hurry to change my condition. My early time of life, and the want of a ftip porting female, would incline me to postpone the affair until my arrival in England. — I have, however, promised to be implicitly governed by my worthy Mr. Shugburgh.
I hope I shall not be obliged to see Lord sin ly — what melancholy reflections we should both
of
Miss SOMMER VILE. 217
of us experience! — Our taste, our attachment — It .is Surely extraordinary, that 1 cannot keep clear of that unhappy girl! I cannot conceive how Mr. Shugburgh means to proceed : he certainly gives a singular proof of his affection for me, when he is unmindful, for my Sake, of e very consequence of disobliging his old friend.
I am strangely upon the flats I — Oh, Patty! Patty! that I had never known you I
I am, cs.
Kenningtont.
LETTER LIII
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
YOU have, indeed, Harry, given the strongest proofs of fraternal regard I ever heard of; but extraordinary actions are So common with you, .that, upon recollection, we confess it is only a6ting conststently, when you at most nobly!
Mr. Shugburgh is higstly'delighted with his commistlon; but apprehends that poor miss kennington’s joys will Soon be blasted by the discovery of her mother’s death.
He is resolved not only to Set Patty at liberty, from her present disgraceful confinement, but to place her some where in ease and Security; and (if she will, at length, be prevailed upon to communicate Some few particulars to justify her condu6t) she is to be perfefbly restored to all her former estimation and consequence.
vol. II L lean
2i
I can read finly’s wishes in his eyes; but fly is So extravagantly nice, that I fear we must take our trip without her; though believe me, my friend, there will be a good many words to that bargain.
We are all to embark for the South of France so soon as the ceremony is over, and I hope some saver Scenes will await us than we have of late been engaged in. We are to visit Patty in the afternoon.
^
We have not only made our visit to Patty, but have delivered her from durance. It was a most iniquitous aflion, and would but little redound to the honour of the parties concerned in it, if fairly stated. But private motives of our own will preserve them from the world’s censure“
“poor girl! (said Mr. Shugburgh, in the tenderest accent) your Sufferings have been great! but Providence, you see, has never ‘‘ absolutely forsaken you I If you have passed your days innocently, you are, indeed, a most“ “creature! but if vice has ever been ** familiar to your heart, I hope the great raer cies you have experienced, will incite you to renounce it for ever. Vice, (continued he) is a worm that must perpetually prey upon fucli a mind of yours.
So sensible of every requisite in the female charadier — of lovely delicacy, propriety, and “stneerity, how could you Support the confei ousness of acting in diredi opposition to the ■lights you are blessed with? But do not let
“me
Miss SOMMERVILK 219
me wound where I wish to heal! Only be “persuaded to try no more experiments; but, by accepting of that prote<5tion I have long “wished to afford you, avoid every future ‘‘ evil.”
Alas, sir! (Said she) I have no choice re ‘‘ maining: dispose of me as you please. My ‘‘ gratitude, my warmest affection shall be ever yours. -
I am now convinced I have a6led upon a wrong plan; I knew nothing of life or man kind, or I should not thus have exposed myself. My history Seems to have attained its ‘‘ termination, and I can plead no further ex clife, even to my own heart, for longer con cealment. But Miss Kennington (added she, sighing) must be present at the opening of “it; for, sir, it is a story that can be told but once.”
The alteration in her voice, and the dejedfion of her countenance, at this period, chilled my very soul — Of what nature can her adventures be?
Mr. Shugburgh, who is past the age of curiosity, and whole benevolence is Superior to every other pastion, replied :
We wist wait your own time, my child; — you rejoice me to hear you talk So rational“ “How inconsistent to call those friends, you are afraid to trust with any particulars: I always considered your obstinacy, in that ref“ “as the worst part of your character.” We lodged her once more at her friend the milliner’s; but, ' you may be assured, she will never again appear behind the counter.
I am, c. Bradshaw.
La LET
22, 0 The hi S T ORN of
/ •
» .'
^ i
LETTER LIV
%
Lady Sarah Kennington to Mils Turner. Dear Mils Turner,
WHAT an 'unfortunate wretch I am!
Patty is once more triumphant, and all my schemes blown unfuccefsftilly off!
It Seems the tale would not have been Sufped: ed if the angelic Soul had not been placed So low as an honest crispin’s daughter. I own I did not Sufficiently attend to that circumstance, or the colouring should have been more judiciously bestowed.
/ After all, I believe she will slip through my
fingers, unless you can prevail upon yourself to return to Dublin. Your sister is a clumsy plotter as well as myself; but your abilities, I know, mayshe depended upon.
Abfolutely'now, I think I should have been taken in by that appearance of Sincerity my woman assumed; but her being recommended by Squib, was the bane of her credit and my happiness.
I will not be So hasty for the future; — but will examine a bussnefs through all its turnings before I hazard the execution of it.«r but enough of this subject for the present.
sarah’s match goes Smoothly on; but I have been So accustomed to disappointment lately,
that
Miss SOMMER VILE. 221
that I shall not depend upon any event that is not aq.ually past.
If any evil accident should intervene on this occasion; Mr., Shugburgh will be the author of it. I cannot imagine how my Lord can entertain Such a fellow in his house, to be a spy, nay, a .cheek truly, upon all his adfions. Times are greatly altered; for, would you believe it, he has had the vanity, and presumption, more than once, to attempt to restrain both him and me from following, our own inclinations.
He has, indeed, a good decent sura of money in his power; but I despair.of ever fingering a single shilling; for our tastes, (the boor!) opinions rather, are So diametrically opposite, that !• am fensible.he regards me as a desperate fine lady; and I look upon him.i^as a kind of half polished savage.
But where can this low wretch have concealed herself .f “Our doors, I am positive, were shut against her and all her gang : nor can I conceive (now your Sister'has given her up) that one creature in all Dublin would be so madly absurd as to take her under their roof,.
Her artifice, nevertheless is immeasurable; nor can any accident, or crofs attack, throw her out of her element,. It is plain she is unable to produce one person to speak favourably of her, or she would, on this oceafion, have drawn them forth.
We never are to be Satisfied: my first wish was merely to drive her to a distance, and now I regret that she has escaped my power. Only think of brett’s ingenuity I she had never Seen Mrs. patty’s face in her life, or heard a Syllable concerning her; yet; from my representation,
L 3 undertook
I
22
undertook to handle her; for which end she became the most pliable useful thing in nature to Sarah.
My dear miss, I am never So happy as when obeying your commands; I am going out this afternoon; have you no message to any of your tradespeople?? little employment for me ?”
Yes, the fool had a letter to Miss Price; Brett brought it to me, I turned it inside out, with the utmost dexterity : — all stuff and nonsense I — She conveyed it Safe, obtained a Sight of the lady, and returned home in the best dif. sembled flutter I ever Saw in my life.
My Lord, old Shugburgh, and I, were together : Miss Sarah had stole away, to her pen, I suppose.
‘‘ What is the matter, Brett? (demanded I), << You are discomposed“
“madam I (cried she) I dare not tell you.”
* ‘‘ Pray, Mrs. Brett, (Said ray father. Smiling)
“consider, a lady’s curiosity must not be trifled with; and, upon my honour, to confess the truth, I feel myself rather inquifltive upon the occaflon.”
“Nay, madam, (resunned she) nothing but “Miss Price, I think she is called. — Well, Lord bless us! how miscbief will out! I little ** thought of feeing her in Ireland !”
Why, do you know anything of her?” exclaimed each of the gentlemen, in the same instant.
** More than is good, I can affure your Lordship! (Said she. Smartly) she has led a most ■

Miss SOMMER VILE. 223
irregular life! and is now upon her wits, I “suppose, for a livelihood.”
My lord’s countenance brightened, Shug burgh lowered, with mortihcation, — whilst Brett related the particulars, you ic ceived by the last post; but they, neither of them, vouchsafed to Speak their Sentiments. His Lordship wrote a letter instantly, — dispatched it by a chairman, and ordered his coach to be ready in the morn ing.
It Seems Mrs. Patty and Mrs. Bateman are but upon indifferent terms; for She Seemed under great uneastnefs, and your stster condudied Brett to and from her, herself, as if she was anpre kensive of tales: — and, wlrat was very extraordinary, two ill looking lellows were stuck up in a'corner of the room, as if on Some important businefs.
I shall renew my inquiries tomorrow, and. hope to give you a more satisfactory account of your, cs. Kennington.
V
LET T E R„ LV
miss Kennington to miss Carey.
PATTY, my dear girl, is restored to liber r ty, and an almost equal degree of credit and approbation us usual. Mr. Bradshaw, as I told you, discovered the place of confinement, and, notwithstanding her distressful condition,
L 4 her
A
22
her prudence remained unsubdued;; would Ihe accept of his Services in any refpe6i:.
He said he would apply to Mr. Shugburgh in her favour; she did not oppose that offer; yet begged he would not make use of her name, as she could not think of soliciting friendship that,, in appearance, was cooled..
He flew with his accustomed benevolence to relieve her, made fatisfadfion for a most unjust demand, and reconveyed her to Mrs. trueman’s, who received her with transports.
It Seems they had a good deal of conversation. — patty’s Spirits were low. She confessed an ilh natured world was too mighty to contend with; and therefore she found herself difposed to communicate the particulars of her life, previous to our knowledge of her; but entreated Mr. Shugburgh would bring me to be present at the relation.
I never was So impatient, under restraint, as at rhis period. — What can she Say in her justification? — How account for Some mysterious parts of her conduct?? remember, indeed, Ihe assured me at Holyhead, with the strongest appearance of stncerity, that her reserve did not result from guilt; it is, nevertheless, very extraordinary, to have run through So many difficulties that might have been avoided, by clearing up our doubts respefling her connedfions.
If she can give us all the fatisfadfion I am inclined to hope for, what unexpedled happiness will it be to my heart, which, in Spite of all the cruel aspersions of her enemies, yearns unspeak ably towards her.
But this odious Smith, to give him the slip will be no easy matter; wherever I go he is my
constant
Miss S O M M E R VI L E. 225
constant companion; and," unfefs I hazard his picking up a tale for Lady Sarah at Mrs. trueman’s, by taking him with me under pretence of ' buying'some finery, I must deny myself the pleasure she is inclined to give me until mr. shug burgh’s Scheme is ripe for executiooi '
Yet, Surely, no bad consequence could attenti my yielding to the strong impulse of my curiosity— — is impossible but the over grown creature might amuse himself for one half hour at least, amongst a fetof lively girls, without my presence. — I believe I shall try the experiment in all events.
Most dearly, Dolly, have I paid for my folly and impatience. I am unacquainted with parti eulars; — but learned enough to convince me that Patty is a woman of birth and fortune, and a near relation of this vile smith’s, who has been gaping for the honour of my hand I admired myself for my policy, in making an appointment with him for the morning’s walk. He proposed the Park; but 1 told him it must rather be a morning of business than amusement; for that i must go a shopping, and he should at i tend me.
I called at Several milliners in our way (0 dartmouth street, and affected to inquire for a ribbon to match a bit of silk I had with me : — none could accommodate me, and we soon reached Mrs. trueman’s, who no sooner heard my voice, than she ran to inform me that Miss Patty vas impatient to see me.
Mr. Smitffs back was towards her at this in
L 5 stantj — T
22
starxt; — he turned abruptly upon her — with a strange wild countenance, — “And I too, (he “cried) am equally impatient to See Miss Patty.”
Down she dropped at his Sect in a dreadful Swoon.
‘‘ Come, come, Sweetheart, (said the hard“ “wretch, disregarding Mrs, trueman’s condition) conduct us immediately to her.” The girl he Spoke to, officiously obeyed. He took my hand, — I trembled with apprehension of I knew not what; but was compelled to follow our indiscreet condu£trefs into the diningroom.
Patty lifted up her eyes, as the door opened, — her colour forsook her — •
My dear Miss Kennington, (said she, calm ly) have ruined me for ever!”
Ten thousand blessings on this hour! (cried Smith) Miss Sommervile is found! After all my frultlefs Search, dropped into my very mouth; nor Snail she henceforth, elude my ** vigilance. My Sweetest coustn, am I ever to behold an averted aspect?” ?” If you have any humanity, (cried she) my dear madam; do not leave me to the mercy of this man 1”
‘‘ A pretty jest, faith! (returned Smith) am ** I not the properest perfcn to restore the fugi tive 1 your father has a right to expefl; that favour at my hands.” You must excuse me, Miss Kennington; a chair shall be Sent for, “to convey you home; for I cannot hazard “the loss of so newly recovered and So valuable a prize, on any consideration.”
« Oh,
»
Miss S G M M E R V I L E. 227
«<■ Oh, Mr. Shugburgh I (exclaimed the af fli6ted girl) my best, my only friend, that I ‘‘ had but listened to your advice, — I should have escaped this greatest of evils!”
Distradiion! (cried Smith, looking horribly) (( — What fellow does she mean? Is it your old Shugburgh, Miss Kennington ?” — “It is. Sir, (returned I.)” He grinned with pleasure!! — He is too crazy a champion, (resumed he) for So important a cause; but, madam, would you please to have a chair ?”
“Why, really. Sir, you are very genteel, (Said I) to attempt turning me out of a house where, I presume, you have as little autho rity as myself: I must, therefore, beg your 'pardon for I shall not leave Miss Price without good and Sufficient reasons“
“I (repeated he, with a Sneer) So that is your travelling name, madam! — Sir Ed “ward Sommervile will be very proud to hear “of all your proceedings/’
“I suppose, Miss Kenningtoft, (continued he) it cannot be necessary to procure your ab“ “to give you any further information “than that I am that lady’s very near relation, “and will most certainly convey her safe to her «« much astlidled and injured father.”
“Madam, (Said Mrs. Trueman, opening the “door) do not pay the least regard to what that man says; — he is a cruel enemy !”
“Be Silent, woman, (cried he sternly) unless “you will bear witness to the truth; am I not — ”
“I have Sent for Mr. Shugburgh, (returned “Mrs. Trueman, with an air of exultation) and “I now hear him upon the stairs; you will find
it
2z
it no easy matter to Silence him on a wrong foundation.”
The good man instantly appeared; but I am So fatigued with the Scene, and the reeoueflion of it is so painful to me, that I must have some rest before I enter into the recital of it. I am most unhappy to have occastoned; — but I will tell you all by the next post, and am, cs.
Kennington.
LETTER LVL
From the Same to the Same.
SMITH affected to Smile upon Mr. shug burgh. I have no doubt, sir, (said he) but you are too well-bred to interfere in any businefs that does not concern you. That lady thought proper. Some few months ago, to elope from her father Sir Edward Sommervile, ** who has been inconsolable ever Since. I have the honour, as you well know, to be nephew to that gentleman; and, in order to relieve his anxiety, have Spared neither labour nor expense to discover her hiding-place. But, “in vain, that woman (pointing to Mrs. true man) is the rebel’s encourager and Support. ** She formerly lived in the family; but was ** discharged for Some misdemeanour, and has wandered to this place, I suppose to Shelter ** herself from pumshment. Judge, then, (continued

jmiss S O M M E R V I L E. 229
tinue'd he) if she is a proper person to be trust ^ with the care of a young lady she has e“ “Seduced from her friends, and would incite to continue for ever at variance with them.”
“My dear madam, (Said Mr. Shugburgh, unmindful of this fine harangue) I loved and esteemed you from our first acquaintance : my protection has been frequently offered unsolicited; nor had I a wish beyond Serving and Saving you from distress and difficulties.”
“You hear this gentleman’s tale; he cannot be offended at, my not paying implicit faith " to all he relates; — you best know your own “affairs; — if it is with your approbation.”
Do not once mention it, sir; (Said she) — there is no calamity I would not cheerfully ‘‘ embrace to avoid falling again in to his power I “— — How unfortunate that I delayed acquainting you with my family! — but the apprehension“ “being delivered up to that wretch! — He “is, sir, the most enterprising and hypocritical— — ”
creature! (cried he, with Some exultation). What rage can equal that of a disappointed woman! — but neither your idle “distress, nor this gentleman’s extravagant hu“ “shall avail you! — 'You must to england“
“was far from intending to quit this coun “try, at present, (Said Mr. Shugburgh, fini“ “but my dear little friend shall not go « without me. The father of this lady, sir, cannot be offended at my zeal. I have, with,, these four and twenty hours, delivered her ‘‘ from one extremity, and will not behold her
“plunged
23
plunged, perhaps, into a greater, without “altisting her. Let us, therefore, (added the good man) at in concert, Mr. Smith, as we “have both the same object in view, Miss some mervile’s happiness, I never yet forfeited my ‘‘ word; and, unless justified by your conducf, “will not take a step without you.”
A pretty whimstcal proposition! (returned Smith) however, str, I shall not oppose so powerful a party. We wist all go together, if you please, my little intended, the sweet“ “Kennington — patty’s agent, the wife Mrs, ‘‘ Trueman — her prote<for, the officious Mr. “Shugburgh, — and her cruel prosecutor, the odious Mr. Smith! — (I think 1 have be stowed the proper epithets.)' — But Mis. True ‘‘ man, you must lodge me; for I whll not quit “your house till we embark.”
“Your family will be finely increased then, madam; (said Mr. Shugburgh) for I am de termined to follow so excellent an example.” — You may, Miss Kennington, (added he, with the utmost kindness) safely trust your “friend to my care, — and make what excuse you please for my absence— — do not wish to “palliate on ray own account : in so good a cause“ “can never be too busy, Mr. Smith, in “well doing.”
Smith sheered, and with an amazing confidence drew his chair dole to Patty, whole countenance bespoke the utmest perplexity and anguish.
I knew not how to ad; Mrs. trueman’s eyes entreated my stay, Patty kept hers fixed / upon the ground,. Mr. Shugburgh was lost in
meditation,
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 231
meditation, whilil; the hardened Smith Seemed to enjoy the general distre s and confusson!
Not a word pasted for Some time : — at length, Mr. Shiigburgh recolledfing himself. Said “I ‘‘ am Sorry, miss Kennington, we are under a ‘‘ necessity of losmg your company; — but your “uncle will be uneasy, — and you See we are “none of us disposed to be Social. — Perhaps, if you can contrive to look in upon us in the evening, we may have overcome our chagrin, “and —
I arose immediately. — Patty burst into tears; but did not attempt to detain me.
“No ceremony, (Said Smith, Sarcastically) « — Miss Kennington is no friend to ceremony: we are all upon honour, and will have no “private conferences.”
Mrs, Trueman rang the bell, and the same young woman attended me to my chair that was So unhappily forward in leading us into the Scene we had been engaged in. — Where it will end is beyond my utmost conception.
My Lord Kennington was in one of his over pettish humours, and gave me but an indifferent reception. I told him the gentlemen had met with Some unexpedfed company, and bade me apologise. — ■
“It is very fine, (cried he) — people have no ‘‘ consideration but for themselves— — low fpirited, — a pretty entertainingcompanion “they have Sent me! — and Lady Sarah, too, has contrived to be abffnt 1”
What a prospect; of felicity for me! The dinner was Served up.
My heart depressed, my appetite lost, I apprehended his lordship’s Severest difpleasure
would
23
would every instant break forth. He helped me to several things : — the plate was Sent away in' the same condition 1 received it; his eyes met mine : — I was confused;; — stern rebuke was poor encouragement to recover myself; nor do I know a situation on earth I should not have thought preferable to the open I was then in. Thefervants withdrawn, he yawned, “Muftc has charms to.footh'a — We will try the ex perimentl What say you, Mrs. Sarah, to ** oblige me with a Soft tune to harmonise my at present dissatisfied soul. I will recline on « this couch, forget my forlorn state, — and, -- i,, ** your — stupidity ‘
I played to the unmerciful tyrant for three Succeeding hours, when, out of compassion to > my own weariness, I ventured to desist, though I expe6led a Smart reprimand would bethe consequence.
I Soon found, however, that 1 had nothing to ' fear; for I had So literally fulfilled his desire of harmonising his senses, that he was fallen into a profound steep, which continued till Supper time.
I should not be So prolix on*so tristing a fub* je£l, Dolly, but in order to make you sensible that every state of mortification has its advantage; for my lord’s fellow, immediately on my noise ceasing, tapt at the door, and delivered me. a note from Mr. Shugburgh, which I would not, for the world, his Lordship should have Seen; nor could any other than the incident I have related. Secured it from examination, The good man '.nforms me, that Smith per fists in his disagreeable behaviour, and So closcly watches himj that he is unable to exchange one
private
t
I
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 233
private word with Patty : — the reason of which he very naturally concludes, is the preventing her from giving •him his true character. He wishes it was possible for me to get to the Speech of Mrs. Trueman; but fears it will be as little praticable as the other.
Never was there So insolent and over bearing a creature as Smith, nor so helpless and deplorable a creature as I am.
My Lord awaked with astonishment I -- -- -- --
how’s this, Sarah? (said he) you must be a << powerful musscian to Subdue such faculties as ** — Have I been long asteep?”
“Some hours, my Lord.”
Ah, la barbarel (exclaimed he, shrugging « his shoulders) and so pretty a soul attending ** me! — but you are a most egregious dull one!
— (added he) and; therefore it is no refledfion. “Had you but half your beauty, as I have fre quently observed to you, with a tolerable de“ “share of vivacity, you would be a thou ‘‘ Sand times more eligible. I will leave you, « however, to your meditations, and follow ‘‘ Lady Sarah. — I shall be early enough to take ‘‘ two or three chapters in   of the “four kings; — therefore, a good evening to“ “
Thus, released from perfeeution, I flew to my pen, and, to relieve my own breast, must be troublesome to you. Yet, my dear, I know you will not only lament the cause, but grieve for the efledl.^ — I shall have a dreadful night of it; nor will the uncertainty of my own affairs fail to aggravate my heartfelt afflidfion.
lam, cs. Kennington.
L E r
\
  of
LETTER LVII
From the Same to the Same.
At six o’clock, this morning, my dear, a girl from Mrs. trueman’s loaded with: band boxes, entered my apartmentl
My mistress, (said she) madam, was de“ “to be pundtual, and hopes you will “approve of what she has now sent you.” Mrs. Brett having heard thus far, was so civil as to trust us together, not in the least fufpedi ing (as many preparations of the kind are going forv/ards) her errand had a further meaning j but I had better hopes.
The moment we had an opportunity, she gave a long letter from Miss Sommervile — and, notwithstanding all my impatience to make myself acquainted with its contents, 1 was compelled (for fear of being Surprised) to slip it into my pocket unopened, and turn over a heap of senseless finery, which I beheld as vanity and felt to be 'vexation of Spirit.
Due time having elapsed to cover the inno -- cent deceit, I uifpatched her with a good grace, and. Securing my door, 1 drew out patty’s epistle, and read as follows:
Miss Sommervile to Miss Kennimgton.
“BELIEVE me, my dear Miss Rennington, *♦ that events are by no means within the power
“of
Miss SOMMER VILE. 235
** of mortality. To Some it is appointed to be the instrument of good to their fellow crea “tures, tho’ contrary to their wishes and intentions— — to others, of evil, however repugnant to their natures and inclinations: the latter of which, the calamity you have “So innocently brought upon me, is a recent “and most convincing proof — and where the hand of providence is conspicuous, murmur“ “must not be heard.
“Elad I proceeded with less caution, I had ** been more Secure; but where liberty and “life is in danger, every apprehensson will be alive.
‘‘ The first commencement of our acquain tance, so Singular; the dilstovery of my situa tion at Mrs, trueman’s, So premature, had I given you the particulars I now mean to lay before you, would you not have required “Some farther testimony than my bare relation? ** I iim convinced, however, your tender un suspe£fing heart might have been disposed on “such an occasion, the malice of Lady Sarah would have wrought my destrudtion. — The “day has, indeed been procrastinated; but ‘‘ could not be erased from the book of fate I “Smith did not deceive you, when he told you I was Sir Edward sommervile’s daughter;; he claims a degree of consanguinity to that gentleman he does not stand in. It is “a hard talk for a child to paint the author of “her existence in guilty colours 1 but justice, felf preservation, and integrity compel me to ‘‘ perform it. Read, then, my sweet friend, “what I So fatally reserved for your ear.
“Sir
23ff The HSS T O R Y of
Sir Edward was the last remaining heir of ** the Sommerviles> and had the misfortune to “lose both father and mother at an early period;; misfortune that I have reason ever, to “deplore.
“His grand mother (whose extravagant fondness for him, in all probability, laid the foun “dation of every error he has fallen into) undertook the ear of his infancy. Her child “should not be tormented with the common methods of education;, he should have a com panion to play him into learning, and what “genius and emulation could not effect, flogging never should. — Thus, in order to Save him from Salutary correction, she delivered him up to the tyranny of a perverse and tur bulent will.
“Having run through every cruel and idle folly his age was capable of, his companiony “at length introduced him into vicious Scenes. “One miss Smith, a girl in the neighbour hood, became his partner in iniquity, who brought him a Son Some few months before he was nineteen.
He rejoiced exceedingly in his birth, gave ** him his own name, and declared he would give him his estate likewise.
“Their criminal intercourse continued Some years: he had Several other children; but they all died young: nor did the mother long Survive them.
“At three and thirty my mother unfortunately took his fancy. — His estate was an un deniable recommendation with a family that ‘‘ could boast of little more than a bare compe*
‘‘ tence;
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 237
‘‘ tence; especi lly as it was inheritable, no less“ “male than female issue.
She herd but little of the man, his house, his equipage, his great professions not fuffer ‘‘ ing much niention to be made of him; in Short, they talked her into the match, not“ “ambition was, by no means her “most prevailing inclination; and she soon ex“ “how unavailing the power of riches is where shappinefs is wanting.
Sir Edward affeo; ed to profess the highest regard for her, even when he treated her with “the utmost barbarity; nor did her giving him a daughter, in any degree, mitigate her sufferings.
The darling boy (now ssxteen) took the alarm I — Sir edward’s affections would be weaned: from him by my lady’s artful ma nagement; nor would anything less Satisfy ‘‘ him than being introduced into the family as a relation of some kind.
Sir'edward was unable to deny neddy’s modest request, and he was accordingly im “posed upon by my mother for his sister’s Son. She Saw so little company, and her fcnow ledge of his connexions vvere so limited, that she had no opportunity of being undeceived; especiahy as to give the better colour to the deception, she was told his father and mother died abroad.
No being was ever more wicked than this lad; yet Sir Edward would not see it: it was “jealousy!! was malice! — My mother conss ** dered him as a Spy, and wanted him removed. As for my part, I beheld him with terror for the first twelve years of my life (as he was
« ever
23
« ever torturing and tormenting me) when, all of a Sudden, he began to affefii; a wonderful kindness for me, and would go no where with“ “Patty.
My mother observed this change with plea sure, until I was near fifteen; — when Ihe became alarmed, at his increasing assiduity, and often remonstrated with Sir Edward on its im “propriety. Their opinions, however, distent ed on this as well as every other occasion; — she was an unreasonable woman, and nothing would Satisfy her. — Poor Ned, he was always too officious or too negligent.
We lived in a kind of Splendid captivity, « and were feidom Seen out of our own park or gardens, except at church.
“I had only one acquaintance upon earth at my fchool intervals, — the parfon’s daughter; but she was, perhaps, the most useful ac quaintance the whole earth could have fur nished me with.
“She taught me to choose the best authors for my amusement, corredied my judgement, and improved my principles. — She first made me ** fensible of Sir edward’s base designs; and to < ‘ her Superior knowledge I am indebted for the years of innocence I have pasted.
My mother, born down by dejedfion, liv ‘‘ ed only to see me Sixteen, — when she was re“ “from the most cruel bondage, — that of the Soul.
“She had been buried only a few months, before my father intimated that he bad Some thoughts, as he Scarcely knew which he lov ed best, Patty or Edward, to give both an equal right to his estate.
« I
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 239
I confess 1 did not understand him; but my “fine cousin Soon explained the matter, by actually proposing himself, for my lover.
I was shocked and Surprised; but did not fly out upon the occasion, as I was far from ap prehending (so odious was his general charac ter) that my father could countenance such an enormity!
My friend, miss Stainshy, had long fiifpedl ed his intentions, and enjoined me in the most “solemn manner to make her acquainted with the earliest overtures.
I did So; but how shall I describe my horror and astonishment, when she informed me “we were brother and sister!!
more I reflefled on every circum“ “the more I was convinced she did not deceive me; but if I had entertained a doubt, “she took the most effectual method to remove ittaking me to his nurie.
“The woman had been reduced to the great est‘’extremities, and, in vain, applied to Sir “edv/ard for relief, for having stightly disobliged him; — which so incensed her, that, out of revenge, she came privately to my mother, and revealed the whole affair.
“This step answered her purpose, tho’ not her « expectations: she obtained afiistance, but was forbid, on the forfeiture of all future favour, << to tell her tale to any other person, except Miss Stainshy, who, by my mother’s direction wrote down every particular.
“The reason, (Said that dear relation) of ray « proceeding in this rnanner, is my apprehen (ions for my child. I am no stranger either to the wickedness of the son’s heart, or the In“
“
****."^ *
24
fluence he possesses with his father. I do hope Sir Edward has too much conscience to ‘‘ consent to incest; but he may be taken away, and Patty innocently drawn into So great an evil. — He is a wretch; but his artifice and “address might delude a youthful heart into a more tolerable opinion, nor could I die In “peace if I omitted one precaution to avert liich unnatural infamy.”
“Judge of my feelings under these convifli ons. I shuddered at his approach; — and, “with regard to Sir Edward, —! cannot speak“ “horror.
Things continued much in the same situation until I was turned eighteen, when they began to wear the face of preparation : — my « father (publicly in ris own family, at least) talking of edward’s changing his name by « a€l of parliament, some short time before his
marriage with -- -- -1 cannot finish the dreadful
sentence“
“was returning one evening from a me lancholy walk in the park, when in an unluc ‘‘ ky moment Smith came across me, and was particularly troublesome. Unable to resift ** his rude attempts to kiss me, and no less un able to endure the disgust those attempts occasioned me, I was weak enough to acknow “ledge that I knew him for what he was.
“I found my error when it was too late; he had novy no measures to keep with me, but repeated, nay, increased his brutality; and what might have been the consequence I dare “not think, if a strange gentleman had not by “accident strolled into the park, and given me an opportunity of escaping.
I was
 41
“I was So terrified at his behaviour, that, without a moment’s reflection, I flew to « Miss Stainfby, and told her what had hap“ “
“I pity you, my dear Miss Sommervile, (Said she) and would advise you; but I fear you want resolution— —
“to avoid incest !” demanded I.
Well, my good girl (said she) we will put it to the test. — I know the diabolical princi pie your father a<5ts upon; but it is too per nicious to trust a young mind with. — This is “your hour of deliverance; — if you reenter ‘‘ that house, you are lost for ever !”
‘‘ No words can express what I experienced; — I looked upon her as my guardian angel, and was impatient to execute whatever she might prescribe“
“remember Hannah, (resumed fly) that lived ten years with your mother, and was “discharged merely to mortify and grieve her; — she is now a widow, and keeps a milliner’s shop in Dublin.
« — We have always corresponded, and I could trust my life in her hands.
“With her you may depend on the kindest “reception, and most friendly protesion ”
I had but two guineas about me, and not one change of dress;; nevertheless resolved to abandon everything in such a cause.
She produced her little hoard, which a mounted to treble the Sum of 'mine, and hav“ “accommodated me with linen and an out“ “covering (but little known in the neigh“ “we fet out together for the town at about three miles distance, where coaches and vol. II M “wagons
24
wagons continually baited in their way to London.
“Fortunately for me, there was a mourn ing coach ready to leave the door; I took a hasty farewell of my tender friend, and with my Small pittance arrived Safe the next even ing at charing cross: the following morning, the chester machine conveyed me, with the “utmost expedition, many miles on my journey to that city. I inquired the cheapest way of travelling to Dublin, and was advised to go to Holyhead, as the pacquet could pafs and ‘‘ repass with a side wind only, whilst passengers remained at a very great expense at “Parkgate.
Thus, my dear madam, was I cast in your way, and I dare believe you will think the con“ “I observed highly necessary in my cir ‘‘ cumstances. I have received Several letters “from Miss Stainfby, which never failed to in timidate me, and confirm me in my relblution, “of concealing my family; for the monster has been frequently heard to declare, that he will hazard his neck to prevent my marrying any other person.
What then have I not to apprehend from “so desperate a villain I — if Lord finly’s ap probation was to reach his knowledge, one or both of us wmu’ld be Surely Sacrificed. — Had I not, therefore. Sufficient reason to — but, adieu to Lord Finly and every hope; for, unless Smith may be permitted to convey me to my “father for his own purposes, you may depend upon it he will destroy me.
Mr. Shtigburgh is the most extraordinary ‘‘ man I ever met with; he watches over me
“with
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 243
with an affection truly benevolent, and should “any accident befall him, on my account, I could not Survive it.
“Convey this letter to him, to apprise him at once of my danger and his own : — accept my best thanks for past kindness, and tenderest “wishes for your happinefsmy heart tells me we shall never meet again.
I am, cm.
SOMMERVILE.”
Have I not reason, Dolly, to be affli6l: ed beyond measure I afflicted at occasioning Such misery to so good a girl! I can never support any misfortune that may befall her!
How has she been treated, persecuted, insulted!! mean privileges do the mighty assume I Lady Sarah, that could read the little tradeswoman in every action, after she had discovered her Situation, must descend, though with ever So ill a grace.
We should not be premature in our judgement of strangers; many that appear great, are not foin reality; whilst others, like the diamond, wear their lustre beneath the Surface.
I must find Some Safe'conveyance for this letter : if it falls into wrong hands, poor Miss some mervile — but she shall have no farther reason to hate your. Site. S. Kennington.
M 2 L E T
54
\
LETTER LVIII
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
«
The murder, my dear Harry, is, at length, out; and Patty, Price no less a person than Sir Edward sommervile’s daughter, the heiress of seven thousand a year.
Who would have imagined that So strange a beast should be the father of such a girl? but many extraordinary things happen in life, or I should never have forgot Ned Smith, and his ill charaser.
I have heard Lady Sommervile was a very deserving woman, notwithstanding all the ill treatment she met with; nor had Sir edward’s jealous fit any other foundation than his hopeful nephew’s malice.
You see a knowledge of the world, or being born in an alsembly room, is not essential to politeness; for this young lady’s education, as well as her life, must have been a very confined one; as was most strongly exemplified, indeed, in her odd choice of a milliner’s shop for a hiding-place! — Poor creature! it was very shallow!
But she is in a dismal situation at present; that great Smith, bob’s rival and her tormentor, has taken her prisoner, and ‘.prefuming upon feme little relationship, is for carrying her off nokns volens.
But
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 245
But the tar has happily blocked up the garri son, and will not abandon it but at the lass extremity; he is an honess fellow for sending us the enclosed, and shall not want the aflissance he requires.
Mr. Shugburgh to Mr. Bradshaw.
Sir,
‘‘ EVERYTHING is cleared up refpe6ung patty’s virtue; but her calamities seem to “increase“
“is fallen into dreadful hands! but you “muss proceed cautioussy: a good cause re“ “only resolution and discretion to defend “and Support it. own it is with Some diffi culty that even I myself observe the modera “tion I recommend; nor am I infensible of the “warmth of youth; but you would dessroy what you wish to Save; a consideration that muss infallibly ressrain you.
I have been able to obtain only piecemeal“ “She is Sir Edward sommervile’s “daughter, a man who possesses neither honour “nor principle, or he would never have exposed“ “Sweet a child to the dangers and difficulties “she has encountered, merely to avoid an un “natural union with that tall Smithj Lord ken nington was pleased tochufe for a husband for his niece, in preference of your worthy friend. “He calls himself Sir edward’s nephew; but I wish he is not a nearer relation r and, in or“ “to reconcile you to the unjustifiable vio lence he would pra^iife, with regard to for cing Patty to England, tells you ** Sir Edward " would rather he should enjoy his estate than
m3 any
24
any other man; and, therefore, proposes so ‘‘ give him his daughter.”
“Miss Sommervile was so terrified at the ap prehension of my withdrawing my protection ** Some provoking epithets that villain has “bellowed upon me, of officious busy fellow, c. that she is unmindful.of all reserve, and “publicly declares Smith is her brother,
** 1 have heard of many base practises in life“ “I rejoice that .this is the only, horrid in“ “that ever reached my knowdedge of a ‘‘ father’s delivering up his child to known incest. But, whatever may be the father’s ** inclinations, it is evident that daring wretch will not let her easily escape him.
“I am well convinced that Lord Finly and you have a great affe61ion for her. — Old men are not so Soon imposed upon, as young ones imagine. — Every objasdion is now removed, “and if her, agreeable person and valuable understanding were sufficient to engage your at tachment, it will not be dissolved by the knowledge of her fortune.
‘‘ It would be my advice, that the most fa voured gentleman should become her legal protefilor; the authority, the very name of a hust)and, must be capable of awing fueh a “reptile into proper behaviour.
You know what I have undertaken on Miss « part, from a conviction that it “is the only means of preserving her from suffering. I would gladly perform the same oh fice by her lovely friend, and at the same period too, if all parties were agreeable. — She is now a close prisoner at Mrs. trueman’s: I “think it would be dangerous to trust her with
** a wretch
Mies SOMMER VILE. 247
a wretch who has neither honour nor mercy, “or I would meet you at the tavern in the “next' street to be more explicit. If you can contrive to send Miss Kennington, she will be “a restraint upon him; and it is certain he can“ “convey her violently from a house so well inhabited, .without lome noise“
“kennington’s appearance shall be the ‘‘ stgnal of your readiness, and I will join you ' immediately. L am. c.
Shugburgii.”
What wretches 1 but I will be calm. — a curious rogue, this same Smith : we have long been in his debt, according to bob’s account; nor shall he escape payment.
People are not So private in their iniquity as they imagine; fori, myself have heard it whispered, that this fellow is a nearer relation of Sir edward’s, than he is disposed to claim. — ^feace to such men, I say! if Such men can have peace!
Could you but give a peep at us it would divert you. This letter has produced wonderful effects. — bob’s face is covered with Smiles. — Finly fmirks like your honour, at the corners of his mouth; nor am I so narrcw souled as to envy either the one or the other.
But did you observe the sty Shugburgh : You both love her; I would advise the most “favoured gentleman.” — Ah! my friend, if you have had Sufficient penetration to difeover the formerj you cannot be ignorant of the latter;
, - — the poor Bradshaw! — But I have done witst every folly I
I most certainly am a very clever fellow. — Patty lowborn! howl Scorned the absurdity I and
M 4 yet
24
yet her father is as mean and unworthy a rast cal as ever 'lived but as we Sung in our opera,
Geld from vice can take out a sting.”
How wise the good man is! send Miss ken nington to relieve me! — AVERY pretty substitute! What could Miss Kenninglon do, I trow, in opposition to such a Goliath? One of us, at least, Shall remain in the stop to Support her, if required. What can he have further to say on this head? -- Articles of capitulation from the Lady. — - Nay, then, happy Finly, the day is your own I ^
We have had our meeting, and have concluded on measures. Mr. Shugburgh is of opinion that patty’s apprehenstons are too strong, with regard to Smiths desperate difposttion; he inststs upon it that cowards encounter only the weak; (and is not smith’s charaqier Sufficiently marked?) therefore. Lord Finly can have nothing to fear, if he can prevail upon her to accept of him.
There was a time, Harry — but Finly and I are perfectly reconciled; nor will I give such an ugly likeness of human nature, - — as not to be capable of participating my friend’s joy and yet, how well I loved — my heart bears faithful testimony.
The wedding day is to be the day of our departure; for, when once Miss Kennington absconds, we stall have no time to fosse.
Flis whimsical Lordstip conceives that Shugburgh and Smith (from an equivocal note the former Sent him) are strolled into the country, and is hourly expefling their return. — But they
never
Miss S O M M E R VI L E. 249
, never will return again; at least, upon their usual footing.
We (hall be a fine party. Lord, and heyho, Harry! Lady — Finly! Mr. and Mrs. fleet wood, Mr. Shugbuigh, Mr. Bradshaw, and Mrs. Trueman.
— Her decampment will, indeed be most necessary, as there would be no standing, against smith’s fury, when we are once out of his reach. I am, cf. Bradshaw.
^ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- o — — -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
L E T T E R LIX
Lcrd Finly to miss Sommervili:, Dear Madam; -
1' Hope you will do me the justice to believe ■ that the discovery of your family and consequence has no other value in my sight, than as I flatter myself it will induce you to declare your intentions refpesting me. How well I have loved you; what cruel constraint I have put ‘ upon' my inclination, in forbearing personally to tell you So; and how ardently I have wished for the blessing of your hand, is not within the reach of language!
There is an enthusiasm in the soft friendship you have inspired me with, that experience a lone can give us an idea of! I never remember ed my advantages of birth or fortune, but when I was planning fonoe little Scheme of amuse
M 5 ment
25
merit for my Patty; nor felt their insufficiency and inconvenience but from the recollection that ste despised them; and I found that fplendorand happiness were in danger of being disunited by your over valuation of the one, and wrong judgement of the other. I am, by no means, much read in romance; therefore, it is evident, however foreign to reason, that extravagant suggestions are the offspring of love. I have not for many weeks beheld a cottage that has not furnished my imagination with a thousand pleasing flights! nor espied a Silly sheep sold, but all Arcadia was before me. I mull: acknowledge that when I considered you as merely indebted to nature for every grace, you was more the object of my admiration than under your present circumstances : the consciousness of fortune communicates either a true or false dignity to every heart! and the conduct you observed, sufficiently evinces your feelings.
But, notwithstanding my strong fensibility of your every perfection, I determined, in conformity to that humility that was your chosen characteristic, to suppress all profession of it, at lead, until I had sofar conciliated your esteem, that you would rather believe yourself the most lovely of your sex, than doubt my Sincerity.
If you will please to recollect the first letter I presumed to send you, you must allow that I mod religiousty adhered to my resolution;; I now consider myself as released from every felf in junclion, and would most certainly Suffer my pen to wanton in your praise, if I was not asap prehens.ve, at this period, of offending by my impertinence, as formerly by non compliarxe with your modest humour.
When
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 251
When I read the flattering part of that letter, that gave me hope, only to increase my despair.
. reflet how incapable you must be of deceiving, I am tempted to renounce every rising doubt. But Mr. Shugburgffs opinion will have more weight with you than ten thousand arguments. — He approves, he promotes, he advises our union — nor will the voice of friendship be unattended to, however the pleadings of the lover might be disregarded.
On his interest, therefore, I rely : If the tenderest— — that I am, — yet — I will Subdue this prating propensity, and submit my cause to him and you. It was, indeed, from the abundance of my heart that I began to write; and it is that very abundance that obliges me to desist— — the tongue of volubility cannot keep pace with the fancy; much less the pen with the o verflowings of the soul I
I am,, c. Finly.
-- -- -- -- -- - -- -- o- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -^
E R ' LX
'1
Miss kennington to Miss Carey.
Little did I conceive it possible, my dear Dolly, to pafs an unfatisfa6lory afternoon with Miss Sommervile; but I had the mortification, yesterday, to find that all possibility is not comprehended in my narrow conception.
I had a note conveyed into my drefling room
by
25
by an unknown hand, entreating my company at Mrs. trueman’s, another circumstance that I had no idea could happen to me, — being linked in intriguesbut I have Several upon my hands at this very jundiure; and, upon my word, for a shy innocent girl, acquit myself to a miracle!
My Lord, and Lady Sarah were engaged at the Castle; (a place from whence I am excluded until I become Mrs. Smith; you may therefore, judge of the violent desire I have to go) which favoured my wisties; and I ventured to Set forth the instant their carriage drove from the door.
I found patty’s Spirits but little improved; — Smith looked like himself, confident and audacious; and Mr. Shugburgh Smiled alternately upon his little friends, as if to communicate a ' hope of deliverance to their hearts.
Mrs. Trueman, with a pale apprehensive countenance, appeared at tea. — Smith viewed her contemptuousty : — his soul is incapable of entering into the Sentiment that goodness and great ness are the same thing.
“It is a most whimsical life, (Said Mr. shug burgh) that we lead at present, from want of confidence in each other: I may be wrong; but I think there is much less hazard in trusting to a generous mind, than provoking it by ill treatment. — I do not, however, expect every one should be of my opinion, and, therefore, “con\ply with the humour of my company.
Had Mr. Smith but for a moment relaxed his ** vigilance, I should not have Scrupled to have given him whole hrurs with Miss sommer vile; but as he has thought proper to confider “me in a suspicious light, I will take care to ** be equally Secure, and will embrace the oppor
tmiity
 53
tunity of a third perfon’s presence, to absent“ “for a short period. Miss Kennington, (added he, nodding in a friendly manner) you will let me have the pleasure of finding you “here at my return.”
I bowed, — Smith sheered — Patty and Mrs. Trueman Sighed, — and Mr. Shugburgh departed.
What a rough positive hunks it is! (said Smith.) Does he think I should eat my fair “cousin up, if the little Miss Kennington did “not stand in the way? — o’my conscience, “such a cormorant might devour both the one “and the other with very little difficulty, and ‘‘ the lean Mrs. Trueman into the bargain.”
He laughed at his own wit, and seemed to be Secure of our private applause.
Come, come (resumed he) you need be ** under no restraint before me: — I will be ** deaf, blind, anything, everything to please the ladies, and obtain your favour, ” endeavouring to take Miss sommervlle’s hand.
“If obtaining my favour (replied she) was in any degree the wish of your heart, you woukl not pursue Such odious measures— — pretty device to engage a woman’s favour by break“ “her heart!”
Ah! (cried he) Richard for that cousin— — « bendy indeed; hut he mujl jirain that eracks them. — Shakefpeareknevv human, or ra“ “female, nature, to a nicety.”
His charadiers, sir, (Said Miss Sommervile) were all strongly marked; — a villain, for example— — was lamenting last night that mine would be a history without an historian; << and I think you are a character without a
poei
25
poet to take you off. shakespeare and shake speare’s pen alone could do you justice.”
“I will kifs you for that, (resumed he) my “lovely Satirical girl, though I stiould never kifs you more. — They might well say, (continued he) Revenge is Sweet, if every offen“ “was to fare as yourself, and every offen ‘‘ dead personas daring as your Smith.”
Poor Patty, I believe Sorely repented her biting retort.
“It is now my pretty little Miss Kenning ** ton’s turn, (said he) to give me a l.andfome “stroke. 1 challenge you, madam, and am “prepared to give myself fatisfadiion. Nay, “my dear creatures, do not get into the dumps; ** you staall rather scold with impunity than be all so dully and Silent.
** What a happy deliverance, (added he) — * Ha, my little intended! — you may perceive I “should not have been trifled with.' — Meekness“ “the loveliest ingredient in the female com“ “as courage in the male; and as na turally produces obedience, as the other com mands respedf. — What say you, Mrs. Sugar ** cake ?”
“I beg, sir, (Said Mrs. Trueman) you will ** not terrify me! — I would not speak on any fubjedi: if I might be indulged. I— — ”
So little to the purpose, (said he) I fuppose you would say. Why, really, Mrs. Trueman, if nature has deny’d you wit, she has bestowed an ample portion of judgement “upon you, or you could never have made so ** judicious a drfcovery. — But pray, (continued he) tell me what reason there is for terror? ** do you apprehend any grievance from me? —
Tell
Miss SOMMER VILE. 255
“Tell me but that, and I will allow you to shut “your mouth to the end of otir acquaintance.” Dear Sir, I beseech” ”
“provoke me (said he sternly) with your senseless folly! — What I because I play’d ** you a few unlucky tricks, when a schoolboy“ “would ruin me in the opinion of these“ “I — but rest content, or I will forever ‘‘ banish you my presence;; would be to ‘‘ punish you through my sweet coustn’s heart; “— dr, perhaps, 1 shall Serve you as I did your beloved kitten, crop you for a conjurer. “Siet me a bottle of your Irish claret on the ta ‘‘ bl'e, and we will drown all animostty. The ** bell must be rung; (added he) must it? — No, pray, my dear madam, fetch it yourself, as you used to do out of your storeroom, for ‘‘ Jackey, the clerk’s fon.”
What would I have given to be out of the
wretch’s power -- -- -- Mr, Shugburgh; Mr.
Shugburgh 1 thought I, why do you not return!
Mrs. Trueman, arose with visible re1ufl: ance; — but was afraid to incense him by an absolute refusal.
With Solemn step and slow (cried he, mimicking her) “My dear madam, permit me — ” The wretch had the cruelty to give her an ugly whirl, and put her out of the room.
‘‘ Do not be alarmed ladies, (Said he, with odious confidence I) though rather boisterous ‘‘ in my behaviour to this woman, I will be all gentleness to you; nor will I once commit the “least outrage on this or this fair hand, ’’‘ attempting to Seize a hand of each.
For
256   ok
For my part, I was quite passive; he had terrified me into obedience! — but patty’s Spirits were roused, and ssie clapped her’s behind her.
“Behold the contrast! (cried he) my intended that must lose me for ever, is all submiffi on! whilst the silly fool, whole future days are all at my mercy, is so impolitic as to be refrasory. — A prayer! — that’s my precious! “(she did lift up her eyes.) May heaven defend you from So severe a fate!”
Mrs. Trueman now returned with the claret.
“This Trueman is a good bustling landlady; (Said he) but (where are the glasses) quite in“ “if wanting a head could make her « so.
— “Fetch them, pray I (affehing to reel) you perverse hussy I fetch them this instant!”
** Thus, ladies you see (resumed he) how I Support my authority! That duchess has pro -** me many a beating, for my barbarity! as mama and her called it.
“Some water, Mr. Smith ] • (exclaimed 1.) Oh, patty! Patty!” She was finking to the ground at this wanton mention of her mother’s name.
‘‘ I am better, my dear!”
'Which of her dears did my Patty mean ’ ** (Said the unfeeling wretch.) — Here is the officious toad again; I must invent Some new “errand to torment her.” — But to my inex* preshble fatisfafifion, Mr. shugburgh’s return put a period to his wicked malice.
I stayed but one quarter of an hour longer, and hurried home, to give you the Scene whilst
the horror of it yet remained upon my mind
Is there yet a means of happiness for your’s, cs.
Kennington.
L E r
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 257
t
LETTER LXI
From the Same to the Same.
Born for persecution, no sstuation can exempt me from my fate.
Lord Kennington began with me this morning. — He did not like Smith and shugburgh’s great intimacy. — It was true, Shugburgh knew nothing of deceit, in general; but perhaps he might descend to pra£tife it in Miss sarah’s Service.
I would have had recourse to my usual refuge, as he calls it, — silence;; he sternly commanded me to look upon him, and tell him if there was not Something in the wind.
I was So mortified and distressed I could Scarce Support myself— — Seized my shoulder. “Why does not the witch answer me? (cried he, with an imperious voice) I will shake you “to atoms before I will Suffer myself to be dup ed by such clumsy artifice. Do you, or do you not know where they are ?”
“I do, my Lord; (Said I) and I do not, my “Lord.”
“Miserable prevaricator! (exclaimed he) how ‘‘ does terror and meanness banish every grace “from your afpeq;! — If you are not imme “diately disposed of, yoiir face will not be worth “a farthing. But tell me thou paltry trifler, what you do really know? — for, as to what
** you
25
you are unacquainted with, is not the objedi of my enquiry.’^
I was almost wicked enough to wisti myself dumb. -- - You had better not alk me, my Lord, ” Said I.
I am upon tenter hooks; (cried he) what “have you done, thou distionour to my blood!
“thou” -- -- --
‘‘ I, I, my Lord, am not to. blame! they are “both with Patty.”
“Patty I When? where? how ?” demanded he, eagerly.
a Dear sir, do not. look so angry I — I really “cannot tell you.”
“I throw myself to distance, (said he, bounding like an old baboon to the other fide ' of the apartment) lest I stiould forget what is due to your Sex, and absolutely beat you.
“But you may as well reveal the whole matter,
“with a good grace; for I positively will know « it.’^
You know already, fir.”
He stamped with his sound foot; (for the gout has rendered one very infirm) then hobbling to the door. — Who waits there? — I want Lady Sarah instantly. We will see, miss, who shall be conqueror.”
Lady Sarah flew to papa’s assistance.
« We are harbouring the basest of creatures!! his Lordship) she has acknowledg ‘‘ ed herself in league with our worst enemies; and, now, would meanly unsay alpshe has said, to screen them from mv refentmeat 1”
I shall be searched, thought 1, and all will be difcoveredss — O, folly I O, imprudence I, when shall I be able to renounce your bondage! but if
ever
 59
ever I do approach either fire or candle more, I will, most effectually destroy these evidences of my intriguing capacity. This apprehension operated so strongly upon me, that I resolved to Sacrifice every other consideration, to deliver myself from such violence; I, therefore, acknowledged that I had been informed, they were altogether at the milliner’s in dartmouth street.
Never was countenance more defaced by pastl onthan his lordstiip’s. — We will detest them “in their privacy. Lady Sarah; (said he) and their betrayer shall accompany us. Timid “fool, — on with your things; we will lose no time - fear has produced the very effe€fc that a sense of duty — But away! away!” This was a happy respite: I hastened to my own apartment,, and, in my confusion, not only put every letter I had received from the whole party into the fire, but like wise a long epistle I had wrote to Mr. Fleetwood; and only waited an opportunity of conveying to him.
This business happily over, I began to reflect: upon what I had done; but a confidence in Mr. shugburgh’s steadiness to the cause he had espoused, and the certainty that undeprived of his favour, Miss Sommervile could not possibly be in a worse Situation, I went down with a very good courage.
A' hackney coach was at the door, — in my uncle pushed me — and we were soon battered to Mrs. trueman’s.
T he first objects that met Lady sarah’s eyes, as we approached the shop window, was Mr. Bradshaw and Fleetwood, — in waitirg, I suppose, for an interview with our common friend.
Her
26o   of
Her features instantly Swelled. — Sure, sir, “(Said she) this is a common house of intrigue!
Miss Sarah must have improved her natu ral genius by her frequent visits to it; — but that was with your approbation.”
Lord kennington’s judgement called in question, — - Death and destruflion!
“I only wish, madam, (returned his Lordship “pettishly) you would attend to the regulation “of your own affairs, and not invade my province;; your time of day a breach of duty ** is utterly inexcusable.”
Time of day! — my poor papa I (muttered “she, as she got out of the coach) thinks of nothing but old age, except where he himself is concerned; — when the blooming Flora and “all her youthful train are Superannuated in the “comparison.”
The stopping of a coach at Mrs. trueman’s was not So extraordinary a circumstance, as to be useful“
“Price, sweet heart! (said his Lord“ “to the person who attended) our business is \vith Patty Price.”
The girl had been only a few days in the house, and had actually never heard the name mentioned.
Miss Sommervile, Miss Patty Sommervile “(repeated she) to be Sure, sir, is here; but I “know of no other lady.”
** Good! — (cried his Lordship) Lady Sarah, ** did you observe the name Is changed already.
Show us to her: Sommervile and Price are ** one and the same person.”
I will call Mrs. Trueman, ” Said the girl. Lady Sarah turned round to overlook the gentlemen
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 261
men in her scornful manner; and I had really the courage to exchange a tender glance with Mr. Fleetwood.
Mrs. Trueman was struck of a heap! ‘‘ We “are unexpe^ed, Mrs. Trueman; Said my Lord; but we must see your young lady; our “businefs is urgent.”
She made no reply; but leading us to the diningroom, threw open the door: “Lady Sarah, Lord Kennington and Miss Kennington !” Said she aloud, to Mi 's Sommervile. — In we all rushed.
patty’s countenance was really pitiable, — smith’s meanly contemptible; — but Mr. shug burgh knew neither to blush not be confounded, the integrity of his own heart being a never-failing Support; and he addressed Lord Kennington with the same composure, as if every step he had taken had had the fan£iion of his approbation.
“You see, my Lord, (laid he) I am a man of “bussnefs; but, however ungenteel you may “conceive my treatment of you in the first “instance, I am confident I shall clear away “every diffatisfadlion, by disclosing my motives ** that had” —
“Indeed, Shugburgh, (returned his Lordship) It ill becomes your age and understanding to “turn knight errant: — that lady has shone upon more cccafions than one, already; but I “thought the farce had been over in this coun try, at least. But she is come out, I find in a new charafiter : — the humble name of Price converted into the nobletounding Sommervile. But give us her history, (continued he) as you “received it from herself, and we will judge you
favour
262   or
“favourably.” “I hope, Mr. Smith, she does “not claim you for a relation ?”
Mr. Smith (Said Mr. Shugburgh) from you. « I received my information : Is not that Lady
Sir Edward sommervile’s daughter ?”
« Why, faith! my Lord, (replied he) the faff is, as Mr. Shugburgh represents it, and “a most perverse undutiful child he has found her.”
Lord kennington’s countenance, from being overspread with rage and satire, instantly became placid and servile“
“I most Sincerely beg her pardon, (said his Lordship, with an humble and beseeching voice) for all that is past! and hope she will believe, that had I known her family, I myself“ “have been the first to protect and de send her. I have Some obligations to Sir ed ward, and should have been glad of an opportunity of discharging part of them in her service. I knew he had a daughter; but little apprehended, as she never appeared in life,, that she was either so old, or So accomplished “as this young lady is. Can you, madam, for give affronts that were not levelled at Miss“ “?”
“It was happy for me, my Lord, (said Patty, w’ith her usual dignity) that indigence and “and friendliness did not concur with your en endeavours to make me wtetched !”
Had Miss Sommervile been attacked in her “own person, you would have been a generous << enemy; and, if successful, had deserved your triumph : but a young creature so cruelly cir ‘‘ cumstanced as Patty Price, virtuoussy and in dustriousty disposed, to be driven to such extremities

Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 263
tremities. Lord Rennington may, perhaps, ‘‘ have Sufficient address to reconcile himself to ‘‘ his own conduct; but must never expel to be considered as either a man of honour or humanity by Patty Sommervile. — As my father’s friend, I thank you for your profeffi ‘‘ ons of kindness; and if you will take me out of that — - Mr. smith’s hands until I can be “restored to his pleasure, you will really ob llge me.”
Lady Sarah! Niece!” (Said the mortified Peer) do you make the offer of my house ac“ “to miss Sommervile; I will be answer“ “for Sir edward’s approbation.” — ‘‘A word with you, Mr. Smith !” They withdrew into the next apartment for a few moments, and then rejoined us; but, whatever was their conversation, smith’s haughty crest was totally Subdued.
“And as for you, Shugburgh, (Said his Lord“ “taking up his Speech at his return, exactly where he had broke off) are a clever fellow! and I thus thank you iiliaking him ** heartily by the hand) for every civility you have shown my friend’s child !”
i.ady Sarah is a true woman of quality, and observed with all the ease and confidence imaginable, “That people could never be an swerable for a condu<5t they were drawn into ‘‘ by false appearances.”
— Then, Smoothing her features into complacency, and her language into politeness, assured Miss Sommervile, It should be her study to wipe off every disagreeable remembrance, shy future amity.”
Patty
264 The H I S T O R Y of
Patty and I for the first time, indulged the affedlionate impulse of our hearts (before so many spectators) by a friendly embrace.
Mrs. Trueman was unable to contain her surprise and joy, but wept as plentifully upon this happy occasion, as she had formerly done upon every unhappy one!
Smith made not the least opposilion to patty’s removal, from being sensible, I suppose, that this tyranny would not avail him : the good understanding between my uncle and Sir Edward leaving not the least doubt of his approbation of whatever steps his Lordship proposed; though, you must know, that the earl of Kennington is greatly under the hatches with that gentleman respecting money affairs: his estate is, indeed, so intolerably dipped, as to be rather Sir edward’s property than his own — nevertheless it was apparent his quality gave him no inconsiderable consequence in Sir edward’s sight, as Smith was visibly chagrined, though afraid to acknowledge it.
“Let us all go together, (said his Lordship) it shall be an evening of jubilee; nor shall one former friend be forgotten. Mrs. Trueman, will you take the trouble of making my com pliments to the gentlemen below, and through their means to Lord Finly; and beg their company this evening at rny house— — “will be universally reconciled.”
Thus has fortune, Dolly, made me ample amends for every unfavourable incident.
I begun the relation as the fat began with me, to avoid anticipation on your part; — and if persecution was always productive of as happy consequences, who would not cheerfully submit to
its
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 265
its yoke? — nor do I doubt that every evil is as literally Succeeded by its good as on the present occasson; but as moral and human advantages are widely different, the operation is not at ail limes conspicuous.
Patty still trembles with apprehension, from a knowledge of smith’s desperate spirit; but I look upon him as that sort of cur, that can loudly bark, but runs away when he should bite.
Lord Finly, Bradshaw, and Fleetwood, were in college green before us; so impatient were they, I suppose, for an explanation of so extraordinary a change.
Lady Sarah received her favourite very gra ciousty; Fleetwood had the temerity to kifs my hand in the full face of the company; and Lord Finly had, for once, his patty’s ear free from all impertinent interruption.
Smith, like the old gentleman in Milton, sick ened at the ftgbt of so much happiness!! af fefiting hidden disorder, betook himself to his apartment.
Our hearts were inexpressibly animated, and Mr. Shugburgh, for the only time in his life, tho’ a Sailor, drank too freely of the cup of joyy which ever proves intoxicating. — I wish he may not suffer to morrow morning for his unbounded fa tisfa£lion.
But are we not, Dolly, too happy for human
beings : and from what cause is it derived ?__
Can niy Lord have any meaning in introducing Fleetwood or — But Patty is already asseep; fatigue and unexpeq: ed felicity have overcome her fensibility. There she lies on my late miserable bed — that now possesses every essentia! to repose, vol. II N and
26
and the thorny pillow is exchanged for the softest down. — One more letter from England, one more tender remembrance from my ever honoured mother, and perfefi: happiness will, for once, (tho’ perhaps for a moment only) be the portion of frail mortality. I am, dec.
S. Kenningtok.
LETTER LXII
. Mr. Fleetwood to Miss Kennington.
r
IT is, my: dear Miss Kennington, as I flattered myself, when I received your uncle’s invitation : I am accepted, my proposals approved, and his long with held and vainly fouicited consent, is now become a freewill offering.
smith’s circumstances are, indeed, very deplorable; Sir Edward is dying, and has neither made nor retains the least capacity of making any proviflon for him; Miss Sommervile has a noble soul, nor will leave a favourite of her father’s to desperation, whilst she enjoys her ample revenue : but to such a disposition as his, how galling obligation, where he expe(sted to command and tyrannise at large’!
My Lord has even gone sofar as to fix a day for our union: — a distant one; but with fneh happy prospects I dare not be discontented. Our meetings may be'frequent, our conversation unrestrained, and we may equally taste the Sweets of life in our present as future condition.
Teach
I
Miss SOMMERVILE. .267
Teach me, my beloved girl, to bear this moil iunexpedled good fortune with Some kind of moderation; So extraordinary a transition requires a stronger mind than I am master of, to support it.
finly’s exultation and happiness is not inferior to my own! — His Patty is as propitious as his heart can wisti j but has enjoined him to conceal his transports and expediation before the gloomy Smith, as long, at least, as they can be concealed.
She ought to know his disposition best; but, in my opinion, concessions feed, rather than Subdue, a haughty Spirit.
Poor Bradshaw! it is Some allay to my felicity to know him unhappy. — His constidfs are great; but, I hope, not above his capacity to Sustain: he distinguishes too justly to be offended either at Miss sommervile’s not approving him, or bestov/ing herself upon another; but love, however rational at intervals, is not less extravagant when the fancy prevails.
She is the only woman that could have overcome his natural infensibility, and taught him to revere the little formidable deity. I know him well; he has such generossty and greatness of soul that he will, in a short period, derive more satisfaction from the happiness of her he loves, though unconnedted with his own, than to have beheld her coldly content with him for her husband— — Services be has rendered her, — his warm participation in her joys and affections, bespeak him what he is, a generous lover, an unexceptionable friend, and a Sort of philosopher.
I confess he has greatly the advantage of me; for, however meek and ressgned I may appear, I
N 2 should
26
should have been outrageous had I lost the object of my tenderest affedfion; nor could any motive, for a long, a very long Season, have prevailed upon me to behold my rival with even a charitable eye.
Thus are we fitted to our fate Heaven, in companion, to my infirmities, has Spared me, where my strength was unequal, and will, I doubt not, increase and confirm the worthy resolutions and manly resignation it has bestowed upon Bradshaw. I am, c.
R. Fleetwood.
LETTER LXIII
]\lr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
For a carrier of the feathered race, to
f convey, with due expedition, the happy tidings I have to impart I but it cannot be; — nor will the lazy post alone, retard your knowledge of our present felicity; but winds and waves must prove propitious ere it can reach you.
What language will best Suit my purpose? — The man of philosophy and reflection would tell you, that one extreme is ever Succeeded by another; and that, when the tide of afflidfion has run to its lowest ebb, the reflux, purged and purified from every evil, — must Swell and roll in waves of joy I
The poet would observe, that the beautiful face of nature was no longer obscured by the veil of calamity.
The divine, that Providence had not forgotten to be gracious! — ^
The
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 259
The man of trade, — that perseverance and application had at length prevailed.
The man of the world, that fortune, weary of one continued round, had Suddenly turned her wheel to persecute the opposste quarter.
And I, in my own proper person, Harry, declare that so great. So happy, and so unhoped-for a change, has taken place in our affairs; that to believe it the work of chance, would be the worst of infidelity; and, to confider it as a miracle, I fear the height of presumption: but, to say that the hand of Providence has been most wonderfully conspicuous, is Surely Speaking with all due propriety.
You must remember the situation in which my last letter left the injured Miss Sommervile. Smith resolved to torment and confine her, — and the worthy Shugburgh as resolute to Sooth and deliver her.
You remember, likewise, our consultations Finly was to receive the loveliest hand on earth,, as a Saving remedy against every threatening evil; — and Bob was to be made happy with Miss Kennington, from pretty much the Same consideration.
And all this was to be accomplished clandestinely. Miss Sommervile by Some lucky stroke' released, the marriage performed, and a little multitude embarked without either noise or observation; how pradlicable, I leave to your own wife judgement.
Many methods had been propored, — canvafs’d, — rejedied. Mr. Shugburgh began almost to des pair, and dispatched a note, requiring our attendance at the milliner’s, that is, Bob and myself for Finly was not to appear lest Smith ssiould fus pe£l him to be his rival. — A most necessary'
•' 3 pre*’
t ''
%
2)
precaution; for he has a treacherous afpe£t.
You need not doubt our pun^iuality; — but poor Shugburgh found it was much easier to make an appointment than keep it. — Smith was so insolent and ungoyernable that he durst not leave him an instant.
Mrs. Trueman, who Is a near relation of the grievous’s, dealt us out a shower of tears, and gave her young lady for lost,. — “He has the most vicious and barbarous difposttion (said she) that ever was bestowed on man; and so. “entirely poffffes Sir edward’s ear and heart, that he has the power of giving his owncon du61: whatever representation he pleases.”
I had no other means ot relieving my anxiety, than kicking my heels against the counter, and exclaiming against my stars, both of which I did very freely. “Mrs. Trueman had began with great eloquence to persuade us to renounce every hope, when a coach, by drawing up to the door, obliged her to fly, to hide her blubbered eyes: — and who should it contain but the great Lord Kennington, Lady Sarah, and the sweet Miss Sarah!
Her Ladyship darted a furious look at me; — ■ I met it with composure;; notwithstanding the weight of my misfortunes, turned carelessly to Bob, and affected to whisper him.
They called about them with great authority, — Sneered at, and so intimidated the poor Trueman, that she paraded before them, agreeable to their haughty commands, to Miss sommervile’s apartment
Much vociferation was the consequence;; — it soon fubstded, and accents of complacency and congratulation were distinguishable.
This was the most incomprehensible part to us
lower
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. ayr
lower mortals; but how was our wonder increased, when Mrs. Trueman, with tears of joy, delivered an invitation to us from Lord Kenning.. tonne to spend the evening at bis house
** is all over; (cried she) and my dear Mise Sommervile will be immediately conveyed to Lord kennington’s. I heard, whilst I lived “with her Ladyship, that there was Some no“ “family that had borrowed ccnsider able sums of Sir Edward, and to whole house he made frequent excursions; but never knew,
“or, indeed, had the curiosity to inquire his “name— — Kenningtoni g^il^^hien, is the ** man; but it is owing to a letter he yesterday received from England that he is So well dif ** posed towards my young lady : • — she had other“ “been dispatched to her father, by that vast “Slant smith’s hands, and most irreparably un.
“done. — I heard only half words between my Lord and shim as they retired from, and re“ “to tshe diningroom;; I do flatter myself the old fellow is dead by this time.” Thus she ran on, without stopping a moment, until I entreated her to constder it would be too much for her Spirits; and that we must go to Finly.
That the transition might not over power Ms tender nerves, we afsumed the gloomiest af pefils' our circumstances would admit of; but were fuesh ill dissemblers, — that he instantly challenged us for the news. — Wellj I will not ex posh him : vve have, it’s true, been rivals; but friendship' is now alone predominant.
Impatient for the. unravelling so interesting a mystery, we lost no time in repairing to my lord’s; insomuch, that we arrived before the good company.
N Mr,
%
27
Mr. shugburgh’s felicity overflowed his am -- pie heart; he congratulated us, and himself a thousand times; and, with a fond dotage of a parent, dwelled for ever on the praises, the per feflions of his Patty.
smith’s was the only soul to whom joy was a stranger I — hostility and revenge brooded in his afpefit; but we shall deal with him; nor shall his cloven paw interrupt our felicity.
A moment’s conversation with you, Mr. Bradshaw, ” Said his Lordship, when the happy parade was, in Some measure over, — we went into his dreshng room; and he opened as follows!:
Perhaps, Mr. Bradshaw, I was a little ab rupt in my late behaviour to you and your friend; but I apprehended myself ill-treated, and therefore am excusable. Our Fleetwood is a very pretty fellow, his brother a most generous one; and, stnce he has fet his heart upon my niece, if he can forgive my petulance,, she is his. I own (continued he) — I had other intentions. — Sir Edward sommervile’s ** alliance would have been of infinite advan tage to my family; but the cafe is altered. Sir << Edward is no more; and Mr. Smith is unhappily deprived of both friend and fortune. These events will happen, Mr. Bradshaw : — Miss Sommervile will confider him, — and I must not forget my niece. — I know which way her inclinations lean, and miss Patty is “too great a friend to both Fleetwood and her, ** northeast t to wish their union. ^ I think I have ex plained myself Sufficiently; (added he) and ** it now rests with you, either to accept or de ** dine what you so lately solicited.”
I, you may be Sure, made a very handsome Speech for us all; and we rejoined the company.
Patty
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 273
Patty is not yet acquainted with her sather’s death; a stroke of the palsy deprived him of his Senses a few days before his departure; therefore, nothing could be done for his darling wretch. He is gone, Harry, and may his Sms be forgiven! — but certainly .his intentions refpefiing his daughter — were most heinous!
An heiress— — poor, the persecuted— — a blooming heiress— — Miss Sommervile, never was the obje6l: of my affe<5tion; but shall possess the first place in my esteem and friendship. What an extraordinary mind she is misr trefs of, undebafed by adversity! and, I dare believe, unexalted by prosperity!! — Finly had never appeared, — idle, deceitful, presumptuous expectation, I never should have been her choice. .My principles are too free, my conversation too trifling, and my understanding insufficient to recommend me, with such a nice and delicate distinguisher— — happiness be her portion! and every trace of mortification and Sorrow worn, out for ever!
I am entirely cured. — Lord Finly and Miss Sommervile were formed for each other, and Frank Bradshaw can be content with a batchet„ lor’s life.
• t
Adieu, Harry 1 you and I will compare notes over a not unchearful bottle. — Some years have, indeed, pasted since the shaft of disappointment was lodged in your heart; — but there it sticks as palpably as ever; for the hand of death struck it too deep for human art to extracf. :
I am, c. Bradsitaws
• ^
n5. LETI

•J t
At '
27 '
h"
LETTER LXIV
Lady Sarah Kennington to miss Turner.
YOU will return, Miss Turner 1 you will return to Dublin, in a sort of evil hour! for the happiness we promised ourselves is not only irretrievably lost, but must be totally forgotten.
My father has most essentially served your ssf ter. Do not think me so mean' as to reproach you with obligation; I only wish to induce you to be equally generous I
Some letters have pasted between us that are not altogether fit for infpedstion! — Convey them to me by a fate hand, and I will release both Mrs. Bateman and yourself from every engagement.
I shall return to england very boon. — Some extraordinary things have happened; — but you know too much of life to be surprised— — must be too teitder of your own interest to make other people’s affairs the stibjeft of your con..
I wish yon a good journey’, and doubt not but I shall have reason to remain
Your friend, S. Kennington.
4
LETTER LXV
Miss Turner to Mrs. Bateman.
V
Do, my dear Sister, but behold the haughty terms in which Lady Sarah addresses me,. after having been her confident, her friend, and
darling
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 275
darling compamon. But it is well; — I shall not comply with such imperious commands. — ~
If she is ashamed of her letters, I blush for her condud, and will expose both the one and the other in all companies where she is known.
I cannot imagine what can have occassdned this Sudden change? — Do inquire.: — I die with curiosity. Can Patty have proved any other than the little mean wretch she ever described her? or did she paint her in undue colours merely to gratify her own evil difposition, and is now dpprehehsive 1 should make it public;
Pray go to Lord Kennington .and inform her, that I beg a key to her letter; for that it is utterly unintelligible.
It shall not be in Dublin So Soon as Pexpelled.
= — This aunt of mine is a most unreasonable monster to drag me from town under a promise of staying only a few weeks, — and has taken up her relldence for months.
I will assure Lady sarahh am not < to, be treated So ungenteelly: — if her father has obliged you, you obliged him; and there the matter ought to have rested. Did you not entertain his little dirty idol, give him every opportunity of winning her to his purpose.;. and, if she was refraflory, was you to. she blamed? I can tell you, your letter cost me Some tears; I. would have perished before I would have iubmitted to do such despicable work. — Had he attempted an affair of gallantry >yith yourself, indeed, I should not have sheen Surprised; but,. at your age, and with your accomplishments, to be made a procuress, is odious!
However, as I Said before, do not Sail to inform Lady Sarah, that I am not the easy fool she takes me.for; and that ten cold lines are insufficient to
prevail ^
27
prevail upon me to forego the possession of such valuable papers.
■ Manage the affair with what address you please; but my meaning is literally neither more jior less, than that I will teach her repentance, for conceiving that a paltry title is a sanction for such over bearing behaviour to a perfcn as well born as herself, and your affectionate Sister,
'S. Turner.
LETTER LXVI
/<
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
PASSING over effex bridge, my boy, yesterday noon, who should accost me with the Simper of civility, but the window Bateman, who had So lately declined all connedfion with me. It is not my disposition to shock a fair lady; I therefore affeq; ed an equal degree of cordiality, and attended her home.
You are a good creature (Said she) and will not deny me one fraall request. — Dine withe.”
‘‘ You must excuse me, I am engaged in the
Green.’^
Female rhetoric is very powerful, and she renewed hers with such fuccess, that, on condition I might take my leave as early as I pleased, I consented to obey her.
I was not at a loss to guess her motive. — cu riostty is a reigning principle.
‘‘ Any news, Sir ?” demanded she Significant“ “The papers were never emptier, ” re turned I, politically.
« But
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 2)^
But in the beau monde resumed she.
Faith, madam, (answered I coolly) you know better than I; for I have few engage“ “
“You want to impose (said she, fimperlng) “upon me; Lord Kennington Sees much com pany, and -- -- -- -”
“Come, come, madam, (interrupting her) ‘‘ do not judge of others by yourself. You “know there has been a breach amongst us; ^ — nay, countenanced, abetted, by Mrs. Bate“ “— Was not that Sweet brow totally “contrasted, and at the concert a fortnight ‘‘ ago, when I would have Saluted you with my hat, how meaningly was that pretty head in stantly averted? I know Lord Kennington was ‘‘ the cause of that effesl, as well as the define ‘‘ of inquiring after his family is the motive of “your present behaviour. — confess, — and I am “yielding as air: — perfist in your endeavours ‘‘ to deceive me, and not one Syllable shall pass “these lips.”
“What an oddity! (cried she) but I ought not to be Surprised, that have been an eye“ “of So many of your whimsical Sallies: and what shall I gain by acknowledging you are a conjurer, and have detested my purpose“
“a whole packet of information, my dear madam, — As how, that there is an en“ “revolution in that family: - — Bob and “Miss Kennington are to be married within ihis fortnight — the friendless Patty Price proves to be a woman of very great fortune; — and that Lord kennington’s face is Set against every one that was even fuspested to be her enemy.”
She was utterly confounded. May
278   or
“May I depend on what you now tell me “• — (demanded she with a tremulous voice.) —.
“It would be cruel to trifle witlv me on so im portant an occasion.”
“That is, Mrs. Bateman, that if T have in “any degree exaggerated matters, you would incur the ridicule of your polite friends for giving them a false relation.”
Upon my honour, Sir, you mistake me; I “am very unhappy! — (Her eyes began to “twinkle out a few tears.) — Lord Kennington.; “has not used me well; and perhaps, may give • “an ill turn to the very offices he put me.on performing.”
“We ought to be very cautious, Mrs. man, (Said I, she deserved a Severe rap on thfe “knuckles, Harry, for being, sh busy) how we ** Suffer ourselves to be drawn into impropriety;, “for notwithstanding appearances, — there are - “so many turns in life, that we are frequently “only a£ting against ourselves when w’^e think we ** are deserving another : besides it is both mean “‘and unjustifiable to become atool to any one.” She sobbed most audibly— — tender heart* ed sex are easily worked upon;
“I would no more have taken any adversfe - “step against the young Lady (cried she) than, “I would have flown, if Lord Kennington had. ** not incited me to it; — yet 1 suppose I shall be“ “on his part for a peace offering.”
“It is very vexatious, madam, (resumed L to ' “have any dealings with the great — the earthen pot will ever be dashed in pieces. — Can I Serve “you ?” I was really Sorry for hera weeping fair one is irresistible I
“I think so, sir; — but i must first write to my sister.”
There is much to be Said, Harry, in this wo
V « '
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 279
man’s Savour. She is naturally of a complying temper; Lord Kennington perceived it, and, her mistortunes concurring, took a mean advantage of it. She most reludlantly entered into the basest part, at least, of his designs, as the fellow alsured me, from whom I received an account of patty’s sttuation; but how could she avoid as she
was then circumstanced? -- -- -
She did not choose to be more communicative at this period; and the dinner very opportunely, gave a turn to the conversation.
1 did not observe who waited until, upon a demand of wine, I was Surprised to see a shaking glass presented to me; — when, looking, at the fellow’s face,. I, at once, increased his confuston, and informed myself of the cause— —
— was my friend, — who So repeatedly drank ray health at the tavern.,
Mrs. Bateman, notwithstanding her own dis trefs, was too quick stghted not to perceive something was the matter; and as the gudcy are ever Suspicious, had, I' fuppole, a confused apprehension of his treachery : — she was, however. So prudent as to conceal it until he was withdrawn.
I am Surrounded by deceit; (Said she) nor have you, str, been free from Some ungenteel pradhices; — to tamper, with a Servant was “descending very low, indeed.”
“Look ye, Mrs. Bateman, I fccrn to palliate; your Sudden coldness towards persons that had never offended you, and warm attachment lo Kennington was sufficient to alarm a less susceptible mind than mine. I own it was not the noblest addon of ray life even to oppose fraud by fraud; — but if Mrs. Bateman could have avoided pursuing some cruel measures against an innocent andunoffending person— —

28o   of
“Mr. Bradshaw had never attempted to pry Into “the Secrets of her family.”
“What delight you take in mortifying me! *< — (said she.) This, however, is not the point in question; you was profesting an incll ** nation to Serve me.”
Nor is that inclination (returned I) extln ** guished; but you determined to write to your ** stster previous to every other step.”
“True, Sir; but will you not fail to give me ** your company Some future day ?”
Thus it must ever happen with persons who; negle<5iful of their interest, fall into misfortunes,. ^
Seek to repair those misfortstne^ by crimes; —
and to justify those crimes, by accusing their employer. — What despicable characters there are in life I
As to our own affairs, they are in a very orderly way. — Next Thursday is appointed for bob’s wedding day, for Mr Shugburgh is of opinion, that it is best to strike whilst the iron is hot; nor, by throwing in the mortifying account of Mrs. kennington’s death, retard an event that has been So long intended to take place; and, if delayed, would yet be within the reach of Some evil accident. lam, c. Bradshaw.
LETTER LXVH.
miss Kenning TONNE to miss Carey.
I Cannot be perfectly contented, my dear Dolly, unless I myself receive a letter from my mother. Mr. Shugburgh tells me he will give me a Satisfactory account of her. I have great
faith
Miss SOMMER VILE. ast
faith in all he says; but I own I cannot suppress all apprehension. Yet, perhaps, she may have complimented him So much upon the friendly part he has a6led towards me, — that out of modesty he will not let me see her epistle. I must persuade myself, that is the cafe, or I should blast the happiness of a most worthy heart I
Miss Sommervile was a good deal shocked at the news of her father’s death, notwithstanding all his cruelty. She has had a letter from her friend Miss Stainshy, informing her of the whole affair.
It Seems Sir Edward was very low fpirited for Several days before his paralytic complaint Seized him. Sent for Mr. Stainshy, and had much conversation with him.
He mentioned his Lady rather tenderly, and Said, “He believed she had been injured in his « good opinion.”
Mr. Stainshy, who had a great respedt for Lady sommervile’s memory, told him, ‘‘ He was Sorry he could ever have Suffered himself to be ‘‘ So grossly imposed upon, as even to entertain a shadow of Suspicion of Such a wonaan.”
‘‘ You see, (laid Sir Edward,) how unnatural “and rebellious the girl has acted, to withdraw herself from my knowledge; nor had she ever ** that affedfion for me, that is usual in So near a “relation.”
“You will excuse me, sir, (returned Mr. ** Stainshy) Since you yourself have introduced “the Subjedf, if I take the liberty of observing, ‘‘ that there was Something equally wrong irr your behaviour. — You made a kind of prisoner of your child, obliged her to hide herself when you had any company at your house; and, but for her intimacy with my daughter,
her
28
“her time must have hung very heavy upon her: “hands.”
“I had my reasons, Sir; (Said Sir Edward hastily) girls of fortune are every ones game; — and I was not disposed to bestow my estate but upon a scoundrel of my own choosing.” Then you had made choice of a husband for the young lady
“You know it, Mr. Stainfby, — and have “opened your mouth pretty largely against my intentions; — but you may be assured that if I had not had very substantial proofs of her ** illegitimacy, (tho’ insufficient to, destroy her “claim to my estate) 1 stiould not have thought' of such a thing; — but if it was to be enjoyed by a Spurious heir, — why not one that I had “Some interest in? — Ned, I am Sure, is my “own; and if his mother had lived, I Should have escaped my present disgrace and afflici? tion 1”
** O, Sir, (Said Mr. Stainfby) this is alament ** able tale! — No condudi on earth was freer from reproach than Lady sommervile’s: — She ‘‘ never absented herself from her family; — northeast -- ver vissted but when you was with her; nor had one connediion that could reflect the mi“ “dishonour on her.”
Take care, Mr. Stainshy, your zeal does not render you a suspected person; not as “principal, but an agent in the business— — late curate, Slingshy, was an insinuating ras“ “and Lady Sommervile evidently fond of ** his company and conversation.”
“It is most cruel, Sir, (Said Mr. Stainshy)^ to accuse the dead : this is a piece of Scandal “that was never even broached during the life
“of
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 283
of either party; nor, I dare believe, never would, but for the basest of purposes“
“(cried Sir Edward warmly) you are an “impertinent fellow! — How dare you take fueh liberties with my family “If, (Said Mr. Stainlby) to defend the inno cently afperfed is to be impertinent, it is an impertinence that Suits my profession and cha ra(^er. I have frequently wllhed to talk with you; upon this subject; but would not have ‘‘ led to it myself— — 'believe me, sir, you are made very free with by your neighbours, “whether with or without, your knowledge I cannot determine; — and Miss sommervile’s “slight imputed to a horrid causes
** is very necessary, to be sure, (Said Sir Ed “ward) that a man of ray fortune, should in“ “every cobbler in his parish, to sit in judge ment upon his actions; — that I have condes “cended to account for them to you, has been rather the effect of accident than premeditation;; I cannot see how you can have anything to do with it.”
“excuse me. Sir Edward; but a man of my fun6tion must not permit offences against law “and nature to be committed within his know ledge unnoticed; nor should I have continued much longer stlent, if the young lady had not removed herself.”
Sir Edward was incensed : She must have
Some ‘ ashstant; (exclaimed he), and I shall “henceforth conssder you as a busy troublesome“ “; — and beg I may see no more of you.” Mr. Stainshy arose, and having genteelly remonstrated, that it was the duty, of a clergyman, to reprove Sin wheresoever he found it — he took his leave; telling Sir Edward, ‘‘ that he should
be
i>8
be always ready to attend him when required; “but would not again be officioussy intrusive.’* He had not been many hours at home before he received a Second message from Sir Edward.
“You have disturbed me greatly, (Said he) ‘‘ by the opinion I find you entertain of my principles— — a monster to unite my own children! — I tell you, i’ll hear no more of it.” It is So poor a piece of Sophistry, sir, re turned Mr. Stainfby) that you are now prea ching, that it will neither Secure your conscience nor reputation from being called in que stion. If Lady Somraervile had not both lived ** and died in the parlfh, indeed, such a story “might have obtained credit. You yourself ‘‘ have not even the voice of same to mislead you; — tho’, in that cafe, it is running ashock ** ing riik, to rely upon common report, where, the strongest evidence would be almost infus“ “”
Thus the time was past; — now Seeking to justify his intentions; and now condemning the Severity of those very censures he invited.
Mr. Stainfby had left him only a few moments the third morning, and was beginning to hope that he stiould not be unsuccessful in his labours to correfil his patron’s heart, when he was hastily recalled, and found him in a dreadful state; helpless as infancy, and with intelleffs equally limited.
He knew not where to find Smith, and was unwilling to expose the step Miss Sommervile had taken, by a public inquiry after her; for Miss Stainfby happened to be absent upon a visit at that jundiure, and she had never intimated the least knowledge of Miss sommervile’s affairs to her father; as she was apprehensive his strict
principles
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 285
principles would ruin all she had accomplished.
In this dilemma he determined to write to Lord Kennington, as the most interested person;; — whilst he debated, — Sir Edward expired : therefore, that very letter that began with an account of his illness, concluded with his death; So soon was the one Succeeded by the other.
Miss Sommer vile has had the generosity, in considering of smith’s education, hopes, and her father’s affeffion for him, to continue an estate of five hundred a year in his poffeshon, which Sir Edward had for Some time allowed him by way of pocket money. He had been rambling in quest of Patty, when some of his idle companions engaged him in a frolic to Dublin; a circumstance that never reached Sir edward’s knowledge; for all the letters he produced of his approbation of his match with Miss Kennington, terms of settlement, c. were of his own writing; for he knew well to counterfeit that ‘ gentleman’s hand.
He has entered into a bond for his good behaviour; the penalty of which is no less than the forfeiture of his five hundred a year, if he interferes with, or molests Miss Sommervile. How well he may perform his engagement is impostl ble to judge.
I would delay my approaching change of condition, until decency would permit Patty to change her’s also; but am overruled by the higher powers. Mr. Shugburgh, in particular, most strenuousty opposes me, and you know what implicit obedience I have vowed to him. We shall not return to England until the breaking up of the parliament, when Lord and Lady Finly will accompany us.
♦
28
I, at present, enjoy the highest fatisfafiuon of love and friendship. — patty’s heart is most amiably formed for the one, and the gentle fleet wood’s for the other; — and I am almost afraid, from the impoffibllity of augmenting them, that they must necessarily declino. Everything is in a state of fluq; uation; the eminence is no sooner attained than we begin to descend: : — I neither possess nor wish for the gift of prophecy; I will, therefore, rejoice in that felicity that is dealt out to me, and leave futurity to the direction of that Providence that has always wrought wonderfully for me. Adieu: — this is the last letter, unless Some evil accident intervenes, you will ever receive from S. Kennington.
c0004^0000 0000 ocoo 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 oodo 4^
LETTER XXXI
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
tomorrow, Harry, is the day that is to give you a new relation, and dignify Bobby with the title of Husband.
Great preparations are making at my lord’s; he will have it splendid, which I think is rather unbefitting the humility of the bride and bridegroom’s inclination.
We are to have a ball in high taste; not one of your little made up affairs I used to describe to you: — yet will the partners be nearly the Same. — Mr. Bradshaw, Lady Sarah, — Mr. shug burgh; — hut he will not dance, it Seems, upon the occasion, except a minuet with the bride. Lord Finly, Miss Somm ervile, - — Bobby fleet wood, and, contrary to all rule, I believe, (but
he
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 287
s 0
he pouted horribly when it was otherwise pro posed) and thb lovely Mrs. Fleetwood are again to join hands. — I shall not steep lest Some disaster should interrupt our promised felicity.
miss sommervile’s vivacity is greatly improved; but her other profeftions, from being incapable of addition, remain exactly as on our first acquaintance.
She rallied me rather unmercifully; but with such fweetness and pleasantry upon the Services I intended her, that I could not be dissatisfied; yet I felt very Small, and, I doubt not appeared so. She is, however, convinced of my integrity, and that whatever advantages I might have taken of her supposed fallen state, I abhorred fedufiuon, and loved her more on believing her innocent, than if I had known her for an empress. She really is such a woman in person, understanding, behaviour, and temper, as I never before met with, and I shall have great pleasure in introducing her to your acquaintance.
Finly is a worthy fellow, and well deserves her. His difpcfition and Sentiments are so in tirely correspondent with hers, that if ever a married life Was a blessed one, theirs cannot fail of being so 1
Just returned from church. — This morn has been propitious! and may every Succeeding one bring increase of happiness!
Bob aftumes a very consequential air; but no wonder : this acquisition is a most desirable one, as you yourself v.^ill gladly .acknowledge before many months have elapsed.
I congratulate you on this lovely addition to your family, aud take Some little merit to myself for having promoted it.
?v'iy
28
My Lord and Mr. Shugburgh had a kind of friendly contest, respedting the propriety of their pretenstons to difpostng of the lady. — My Lord insisted upon it, that the office of father more essentially appertained to him, from having Supplied that charaq: er to his niece on her deprivation of her a6lual parent. Mr. Shugburgh urged that friendship’s claim was superior to every other. — A claim that was justified by the whole company.
But here is Bob with an inquisitive eye, endeavouring to run over what I have wrote. — Your pardon, sir, the step you have this morning taken utterly disqualifies you for a batchelor’s confidant. — We will fold up the paper, if you please, and have a little conversation. — The proi
pofal does not Suit you : your moments are
loo precious : -- get you gone, then for a Self
Sufficient puppy! the day will come when I shall be restored to my share of consideration but a new married man, and a disconsolate lover, are the most insufferable of mortals. I have lived to see a happy termination of this amour, and hope this poor Miss sommervile’s will end as fatisfa6i; orily; but I own I myself begin to fear for her.
Smith promised to takehimfelf off immediately, on patty’s generosity; but I am informed he still lurks about incog. — It has an ugly appearance, and we must be much upon our guard.
I think it is paying a most ridiculous complu ment to the dead, to neglect the Securing the felicity of the living on their account, as I shall endeavour to convince the honest Shugburgh whom, I am amazed, did not violently oppose the unexpefled delay; but his heart is abforbe^ by joy, and he has no attention for futurity.
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 289
I wonder I have not yet been pursued with a hue and cry; for I shall retain So much consequence with my company as to be Spared as little as possible. lam, c. Bradshaw.
LETTER LXIX
Mrs. Fleetwood to miss Carey,
There is no end my dear Dolly to the congratulations and entertainments I am Surrounded with — From being the veriest inssgrii ficant in nature, I am become of the greatest consequence. No party is complete without Mrs. Fleetwood; no judgement on any occasson passed, but she is consulted. That ever Such happiness should be reserved for so trifling an individual!
But do not mistake me; it is not the distinction paid me, it is not the flattering my vanity or ambition, that constitute any part of my felicity— — my friend, vanity and ambition have very little to do with the delights of friendship and the union of hearts.
Mr. Bradshaw has been at work with our common friend he thinks it highly necessary that Lord Fihly should assume the right of protecting Miss Sommer vile, in order to prevent her being injured or infiilted; — and he does apprehend Some great enormity is hatching against her.
Smith has been Seen Several times with a plot ing insolent afpect. This is a country where many daring dessgns have been carried into execution; but I will still hope the best. I am certain she has too much resoluticn to be inti vol. II O midated
f
i29®   of
raidated into any sthemes. He may plan 5 and, for the rest, vigilance must be our card.
Mr. Shugburgh has made me a handsome present, and afsures me that I shall find myself particularly mentioned in his will. — Long, very long may that period be distant! for it is not in the power of friendship to bestow a choicer blessing upon me. I beg you will not, in the overflowings of your partiality, make too favourable ' mention of me to your Fleetwood; for, upon my word, I shall not answer his expeqations.
Fatigue and vexation have been of no advantage to my compleftion; and you well know that is the most tolerable possession I can boast.
You will, likewise, please not to Suffer your affedfions to be engaged by him, or any other person; for Patty and I have already disposed of you.
I would have wrote you a very different letter, as to length, if I might have been permitted to follow my inclinations; — but you have too much good sense to conceive my friendship is in any degree diminished, from my being carried a little out of my usual course by the present rapidity of the stream; and be assured, the moment I have leisure to recoiled myself, I will make you ample amends.
Besides, child, you must make Some allowances for my impatience, for Subscribing a name that has ever been So dear to me— — Seems as if, by placing the beloved characters before your eyes, I should confirm my claim to them; but, be it as it may, depend upon it that Sarah ken nington was neither a more dutiful daughter or more affe^ionate friend than will be found in
S. Fleetwood.
LET
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 29.1 LETTER LXX
Miss sommervile to miss Carey,
Dear Madam,
I Take this opportunity to introduce myself to your acquaintance and future correspondence. Miss Kennington has long amused you with my adventures: — many and various have been the turns I have experienced.
Mr. Shugburgh never performed any office with so good a grace as bestowing your lovely friend upon the worthy Fleetwood; nor did Fleetwood ever make a better figure than in the instant of receiving her. His countenance is Sweetly turned, manly, majestic; but generally overspread with seriousness, if not absolute de jedliom
The change was delightful: his eye, his cheek denoted the fatisfadfion of his soul, and abundantly convinced us, that such strong sensibility knew to feta proper estimation on felicity.
I beg, Miss Dolly, you will be pleased to con sider me as an old acquaintance; — your taste, your Sentiments, nay, your very person is familiar to my imagination : — then, do not throw me to a distance, by idle ceremomes. — My heart is perfectly yours; therefore, treat it accordingly.
I am the worst in the world for deferibing pretty scenes by my pen; but in the way of conversation no one can exceed me. — If then you will be content for the present, with being barely told, — that we went to church, ' — performed ithe business— — returned well Satisfied, — you
O 2 mav
29
may depend upon hearing every particular when we meet; — and in Such happy language, that you shall imagine you behold the whole tranfa€ti on. — You .are a, good tra6table girl, — and shall find your account in it.
By the way, miss Dolly, I have a quaere for your most private ear: Bradshaw, is a lively, entertaining, and valuable fellow— — in your opinion is most eligible, — to lead a Solitary unfa tisfadlory life; — or reward all the services he has rendered your friends with your fair hand?
Ta: ke the matter into conssderation, and let me know your undisguised sentiments— — never yet attempted to promote the matrimonial trade; but I think it is a piece of justice you have both an undeniable claim to.
Mrs. Bride is peeping over my shoulder, and abets my proposal— — has many excellent qualities, — a little too volatile, I grant you; but we engage to reform him agreeable to your taste.
Write to us Soon, accept our joint wishes for your happiness, and believe me to be most in cerely yours, M. Sommervile.
P. S. Mr. Shugburgh undertakes to say proper things for us to Mrs. Kenninglon; — therefore, not a word of this letter. — She is So far past the romantic age, that she must have forgot what inexprestibie pleasure there is in folly. — Wisdom is a most valuable attainment; — but folly, innocent delightful folly, best Suits a youthful heart: adieu. — You will understand the meaning of this postscript. — Your friend has left me; but I have not time to explain myself. — Poor Mrs. Kennington was not to See this happy day!
L E 1'
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 293
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
LETTER LXXI
The whole great day, my good Harry, pas sed away agreeably; elegance and propriety governed the feast; and pleasure enlightened every countenance.
Lady Sarah, indeed, felt Several stneasy pangs. — Envy is an infernal passion— — must ■ torment the breast it inhabits.
It is pity that I am incapable of entering into the particulars of this evening in my peculiar manner, as you would really find it very entertaining. Finly and I changed partners Several times;; — periods were delightful; — but bufiness of less /oftnefs must employ my pen. — That Smith! but I hope I have.most effectually defeated his purposes.
I have carried my point, and awakened shug burgh from his lethargy of felicity; and he is,. beyond measure, convinced of the folly of postponing finly’s nuptials : therefore all hands will be fet to work to promote, its immediate completion.
I have Seen Mrs. Bateman, and, agreeable to my promise, accommodated matters between her and Lord Kennington's family: if that can be called an accommodation, that destroys the con nefitions of parties for ever.
She entrusted me with the conveyance of a whole packet of letters, most carefully Sealed, to Lady Sarah, and acknowledged they had passed between her sister and that Lady, refpefiling Miss
O 3 Somme
294 The H I S T O R Y op
som.mervile; — that they were most haughtily demanded by Lady Sarah, and as reluctantly delivered up by miss Turner; nevertheless, stie engaged in her fister’s name, as well as in her own, to pafs an al of oblivion on all that had happened, beginning at the Holyhead adventure, and terminating with the discovery of patty’s confeqiience : — So, adieu, Harry, to all mention of the widow Bateman and Miss Turner, from this time forth.
Lady Sarah is really a very decent behaved person, when not immediately under the dominion of pride and malice; — and perfect harmony reigns amongst us.
Lord kennington’s house is crowded; -- -- for,,
he has altered his mind, with refpe6i to his continuance in this country, and proposes returning to England in a short time after finly’s marriage, we have all had the modesty to take up our residence under his roof. *
Lady Sarah, from a nice pundtilio, removed the busy Mrs. Brett from her station, on the first discovery of Miss sommervile’s real character; but has provided her another place, to the fatif fadlion of all parties.
For, notwithstanding, she had rather rendered herself an objeffc of disgust, if we could pardon her lady’s mistake, we might certainly overlook the error she was drawn into: to please the great; and, at the same time, obtain a handsome reward, is no inconsiderable temptation: — besides, Harry, had we not all Something to be forgiven for.
All preparation for finly’s wedding is to be conduced as privately as possible; but the publication of it is to reach every corner of the three kingdoms.
Sir
* ' f
Miss S O M M F R V I L E.
Sir ed'^ard has been dead onst one month; therefore, revelling wc‘'d be no ^ss inconsstent than impolitic. We, indeed, stained a point on Mrs. fleetwood’s acco’ nt, considering every cir. cumstance; bnt ny Lord is very positive and ablu'd in all his ic’ cluticns.
Monday next is fixed for the happiest day of finly’s life. — W hy was I not born for the Same felicity; yet rendered to lufceptible of its inesti ‘ mable value! — But, away, restedtion — the giddy lad es insist upon my assuming the Soft bondage, so much approved by themselves, and have
air ady marked me down a fair partner. I can believe Ujc is very ocwrvnig, r'
bclds in Mrs. fleetwood’s affections aud yoiir approbation! — but, alas! I am not now the man 1 have been! — the charm of my vivacity is ma great measure broken! — my philosophy destroyed, and my felf complacence lost for ever.
I make no protestations, though — time may work wonders! and the heart that was unsuccessful in its first attachment, may. So far at leafs recover itself, as to enter into a very tolerable friendship with an agreeable female; — but no violence must be expected.
I am convince shat. upj^'^^'jj jjvo greatest
consternation' • and away they all flew,. heaven only knows where, upon a melancholy, and, I am apprehensive, fruitless pursuit.
My heart is torn to pieces. — Miss Sommervile,.. Ib dear to me! — Lord Finly so dear to my husband, is it possible we can ever taste felicity again!
smith’s wretches have certainly Iain in wait for us, wherever we have gone and perceiving how indifferently we were this morning guarded availed themselves of our unfortunate neglect.
I never expect to see her more; he will undoubtedly remove her far from their reach or dist
O < rovpr...
296   op
most efficacious antidote you can be possessed of > but So many years have paff^d ssnee the grave Swallowed up your beloved, — and you have So long accustomed youiself to make familiar mention of your misfortunes, that it is not impossible but she might steal upon your heart. Never frown at the Suggestion : > — I will maintain the possibility; or,, tell me whence this levity, where the stroke has been So recent? Our constitufi ons !< — a fiddlestick! — But it is not my interest to convince you, and I will forbear.
Next Morday — O Finly — Harry, applaud and pity the feelings of poor Bradshaw.
letter LXXII
Mrs. Fleetwood to miss Carey..
TH E So much dreaded evil has overtaken us! — Overtaken us, my Dolly, at a period when we least expected it. What has morta lity to boast, — when, but this hour we attain the Summit of happiness — and the next are preci pitated into the gloomy valley of affliction I
C;; twithstanding; sheliad
herself an objea of disgust, if we could pardon .her lady’s mistake, we might certainly overlook the error she was drawn into: to please the great; and, at the same time, obtain a handsome reward, is no inconsiderable temptation : — besides, Harry, had we not all Something to be forgiven
for..,
All preparation for finly’s wedding is to be
conduaed as privately as possible; but the pu
lication of it is to reach every corner of the
three kingdoms.
Miss SOMMER VILE. 297
frienchhip; but little imagined it was the last time he should behold us with fatisfaffion.
We had only got one street from the church? before we were alarmed by a concourse of rabble; it was only a battle, the people informed us, and we might pafs Safely on. — How chance and design united to effet our destruqiidnf
We had proceeded but a.few paces when Something was thrown at the horses heads; — > they began to plunge dreadfully, and I cried out for assistance. Miss Sommervile appeared uncommonly composed and endeavoured to persuade me there was no danger; but she had Scarcely finished the Sentence before we received, the terrible shock of being thrown over.
I am amazed the mischief ended there: — many persons were officious to assist us : — two chairs instantly presented themselves; and as we were neither of us hurt, and impatient to get home, we most inconsiderately embraced the means accident Seemed to furnish us. with, of being conveyed thither.
1, indeed, arrived Safe; but Miss sommervile has. not since been heard of. I Sent immediately for the gentlemen, threw them into the greatest grief and consternation •, and away they all flew, : heaven only knows where, upon a melancholy,, and, I am apprehensive, fruitless pprsuit.
My heart is torn to pieces. — Miss Sommervile,.. so dear to me! — Lord Finly So dear to my hus band, is it possible we can ever taste felicity again! ■
smith’s wretches have certainly lain in wait for us, wherever we have gone and perceiving how indifferently we were this morning guarded, availed themselves of our unfortunate negleff.
I never expect to see her more; he will undoubtedly remove her far from their reach or dif
O 5 covery.
29
covery, and — but here is Lady Sarah; — I cannot bear the Sight of her; not that I suspedl her upon this occasion; but she has given many proofs of most astonishing ill nature.
; *****'
, Twelve o’clock.
Not a Soul returned; nor, I fear, the least intelligence
obtained. — What a night is this! — -
and Lady Sarah, how unfit for the tender office
of consolation I As for my Lord, he has shut
himself up ever Since the accident. I shall walk
my apartment, — tell the tedious hours, — and
listen to every sound with anxious hope! — That
ever I was born! it was by my means that Smith
discovered— — I shall pay the price. — Goodnight!
good night! I grieve, for your part, in
the general astlidion.
*•*■** * *
monday morn.
Oh, Dolly! I die with apprehension I — They are returned without her but Some fatal catastrophe, I am confident, has been the confer quence. My Fleetwood Sighs as if -- Tell me not of comfort 1 — I never shall know it more!
'— Those looks, — that deep astlidlion informs me I am undone!
Does Patty live? have you seen or heard << anything of her ?” — He cannot answer; and my poor heart' -- Adieu.
L E T t 'E R LXXIII
%
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
HARRY! my ever valuable Elarry! do not seek to know the calamity I can northeast
N 5 ver
, Mrss SOMME R V I L E.. 299
ver communicate. Yeti will tell you — Oh! they have murdered the fairest! — Hush! Finly raves; — but he is delivered from the anguish I experience. — The brain once destroyed, can thought — I hear him again: on my bosom he shall recline. — Yes, Finly, once your rival, now your everlasting friend and companion of your Sufferings! — I must away; the story will reach you, alas 1 too Soon. — Let the public tell it; — the public alone can be equal to the relation.
Will not Heaven relieve this bursting heart 1. — There he lies a horrid Spectacle, quite exhausted! — and. to what purpose his return of strength, — but to be expended in the same dreadful manner. The human frame is not So weak as generally reputed, — or Such conflicts could never have been repeated.
I will get Shugburgh to write: — he, though not the least 'affli61ed, is the most collected of us all. — Scenes of horror are not new to him; — and though he ever feels, — he feels with due resignation. Bradshaw.
LET T E R LXXIV
Mr. Shugburgh to Mr. Fleetwood.
Sir,
I am.but little equal to my present nnde'ddel;
ing; but Mr. bradshaw’s strong follici^®*’ have subdued me, and I will en'i'c ^may plain the dreadful hints he has
You are no stranger to every loolisn impi
need not then telhyou how hais is she irj
Sirmity
^oo   of
have been this day employed; — but the work of Providence must be better than mine; and however hard the convifition, it must at length prevail.
Mis. Fleetwood has told her friend the first steps of this calamity; to her letter, therefore,
I refer you -- Recollenion would be of no use
1.0 me upon this occasion.
I think she finishes at our being returned; — but she did not see us all: nor is she capable of dispatching the little she did know : that too lies at my door.
We did, indeed return. — I must break off a moment; “r~the remembrance is too much form.
After great difficulty and labour, we traced out the chairmen that carried the sweet girl; — ^ they were drunk, — and barely capable of giving us Some imperfefil information.
— They had forced her into a chaise, and she was gone for Kilkenny.
We instantly took post horfes; - — three Servants and ourselves, with arms, was no inconsiderable body. They had changed hcrfes once, — had met with an accident to retard their expedition; but had much the start of us.
However, we continued our chase and, between three and four in the morning perceived, by the help of the moon, a ca'riage flying at a
distance.
Lord Finly and Mr. Bradshaw pushed, for jpvaists; — a fellow fired at them, but happily mif
’ them, and was Secured.
now all of us furrounded.the cbaife; — held out her dear ha’ ds in the bitterness ifs ” (Smith was evidently drawing some front pocket) and whilst we ste
Mr. radshpg should be endangered, — shot
T TARRY! nh ^
T X not seek to k
Miss S O M M E R V I L 301
Can you now not conceive the effefl So cruel a disaster must have upon our hearts I — for to describe even my own feelings, — is beyond my best abilities I
Lord Finly was the only person that did not utter Suitable exclamations I — I apprehended the fatal consequence“
“Lord, (Said I) you had better alight.”
“I am well, sir; (returned he, with miserable wildness— — sir; — perfefitly Satisfied. ‘‘ It does not hurt me: — Ido not bleed : — it was not me he wounded.” — “What do you mean, sir, by your question? — Did I complain ?” Thus he run on, until the violence of his disorder broke forth, when -- -- -
The Servants secured the monster, — Bradstiaw entered the chaise and raised the lovely body: — •
the ball had pasted through her heart! -- -- --
We returned, I told you; — the roads were but indifferent; — we clapped a couple more
horses for the sake of expedition; -- -- they had
not got much above thirty miles- -- --
and myself Supported — across our laps she lay; — and we as anxiousty guarded a gainst every shock 6t the carriage as if — but the, tenderness was neediess — ait'fenfe of Suffering was at an end.
The moon shone full upon her dear face; —
I closed her eyes; -- -- that was not the business'
'hoped to have been engaged in — the very day too -- -- -- -
Could any one behold her, and be an infidel; — the happiness that waited her was poor and despicable to what she now enjoys — and may Finly follow her, and I shall be resigned.
This world is not the place our foolisn impious hearts should dote upon; yet such is the Infirmity
30
firmity and corruption of our nature that common incidents affe6l us, for a short period only: the death that is preceded by what we call a natural cause, passes Soon off our minds and our extravagant and absurd attachment to our follies is renewed, — unmindful that the next Summons may reach ourselves.
Providence, therefore, in mercy visits us with such great calamities, as I have now so imperfectly described, — and shall we not read all the meaning of it? — Beauty, fortune, youth, and virtue, at once were blasted, as a proof of the vanity of the first; — and that the reward of the last is lodged beyond the grave.
She has died for the benefit, the eternal advantage, of those for whom she would have lived : — we that Survive, tremble at the horrible catastrophe! — but the beloved sufferer’s pang was merely momentary 1 — and Lord Finly, once delivered from his deplorable state, the composure of a Christian, will once more be mine.
I must acknowledge, .that nothing ever touched me nearer than this lady’s misfortunes.
— But, my young friend, I have been frequently taught that 1 essbjn of morality, that can never be learned in the temple of gaiety. Many dear companions have dropped at my feet! — the arrows of death flown everywhere around me 1 — yet was I preserved to extra^i a blessing from the calamity of those I held so dear! — vforgive the refleo^ions of an old man, whose love of the dead can never be extinguished, and whose good wishes for the living will terminate only with his existence, lam, sir, c. Shugburgh,
L E .D
Miss S O M M E R V I L E. 303
stt«ttts3|9
LETTER LXXVI
Mr. Bradshaw to Mr. Fleetwood.
Finly is gone; — in every respefl favoured beyond your friend; — the happiest lover, and the happiest mourner.
They will be buried together, — and I will attend them.
Lord Kennington is greatly altered; — but who is not, that ever knew the lovely sufferer!!
wretch will receive the common punishment the law inflifls; but it is abundantly too lenient for Such a butcher!
A Servant in Lord kennington’s family, it appears, was in league with him : — he has escaped for the present; but misery will overtake him.
We are to embark as (oon as the melancholy office is performed! Was it not for the worthy Shugburgh, we should lose our humanity in our affli6lion!
But it is at best most hardly Sustained I Mr. and Mrs. Fleetwood, — ^ Oh, meet us at Chester! and help to cheer them! — I can do
nothing, — • even for myself
Lady Sarah is the only rational person— — heart is flint — and secure from every impression.
Adieu, my friend! What were your trials in comparison of mine? — But Mr. Shughurgh — he shall teach us to bear our stifserings with propriety, and derive benefit from every pang I
The End of the SECOND VOLUME
'rk
U. of Pal Ubrapyi
I
NEW BOOKS of Entertainment,
Publlflied by D. Chamberlains, W. Sleator, J. Potts, J. Williams, and C Ingham.
  and Adventures of
An A T O M.
N
By the Author of Roderick Random.•
(Price sewed 2s. 2d. bound 2s. sd
____ ^ _______________________
History of
EMILY MONTAGUE.
By the Author of Julia Mandeville.
In Two Volumes.
(Price sewed 4s. 4d. bound 5s. 5d.)
mam .... ....... ..........
CONSTANTIA
and her Daughter Julia.
An Italian History; with a Discourse on Romances, \ (Price sewed 2s. 2d. bound 2s. d.)
i
  of Lord Clayton and Miss Meridith.
*
(Price sewed 2 s, 2d. bound 2s. sd
\
>
BOOKS of Entertainment.
L E T T E R S
CONCERNING THE
present State of the French natioist,
•* \
Containing a comprehensive View of its
Political State, I Ranks of the People,
Agriculture, Manners,
Trade and Comme '*
Revenues, I Fine Arts and Artilis,
Military Power, -| Theatre,
Government, j Literature and Writers.
With a complete Compariion between
France and Great Britain.
(Price sewed 4s. 8d. bound 5s. 5d.)
t
LETTERS on Different Subjects.
In Four Volumes.
Among which are interspersed
^ Adventures of ALPHONSO, after the Deftruflion of Lilbon.
By Mrs. Pennington.
(Price sewed 4s. 4d. bound 5s. 5d.)
■7
NEW BOOKS of entertainmbnt. TALES of Inatulla of Delhi.
t
Translated from the Persian.
f
(Price sewed 2s. 2d. bound 2s. id.)
TRUE DE LICACY;
OR,
  of
Lady FRANCES TYLNEY,
and HENRY CECIL, Esq.
(Price sewed 2s. 2d. bound 2s. id.)
  of
Major Bromley, and miss Cliffen.
**
(Price fev/ed 2s. 2d. bound 2s, Sid.)
  of the REIGN of The EMPEROR CHARLES V
With a View of the Progress of Society in Europe, from the Subverfton of the Roman Empire, to the Beginning of the Sixteenth Century.
By William Robertson, D D. Principal of the
University of Edinburgh, c.
In Three Volumes.
(Price fev/ed 14s. bound is. 3d.)
imm C lonchtti
N E W B O O K S of Entertainment.
it
V
f
T R A V E L S
THROUGH
G E R M A N Y.
Containing Observations on
Customs, Commerce,
Manners, Arts,
Religion, and
Government, | Antiquities.
With a particular Account of the Courts of mf.cklenburgh.
I
- in a Series of Letters to a Friend.
By Thomas Nugent, L L D. Fellow
of the Society of Antiquaries.
• * • ■
In Two Volumes.
(Price Sewed 4s. 4d. bound 53. 5d.)
agreeable UGLINESS;
O R,
7 The Trumph .of the Graces.
f
} c
jc'^gfj y,
, / 1/ / /67 S
If Id. ‘^'
4
b
f > ^ A.. >.
1 I
. EISTOS! OF
i: iss i
scmmesmil
