
L O V E
UPON TICK, 
 .
EXEMPLIFIED,
In Some Merry Memoirs of the Rise and progress of an Extraordinary and
Occasional AMOUR.
IN WHICH
The Whole Mechanism of that PASSION is expos’d, and made Obvious to the Meanest Capacity.
/
By the Author of -- -- -- -- - —.
Doubtless the Pleasure is as great:,
Of being Cheated, as to Cheat. H U D.
Semei insanivimus Omnes.
^ _ _ 0
LONDON:
Printed and Sold by J, Billingsley, and W. Mead o w s, in Cornioill: T. W o R R a L against I j
I St, Dunfiads Church in pleetstreet : And J.
. S T A G G, in Wejftminftsr.hall. M Decxxiv.'
"a ■, I,, ii „,, i „, \\iixnw\\m^4^wtimmmmmmmmm»mmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmatmtm
^ I ___ — _
,, .-> : F ■ " '■■ - V v^^vdv^ia AC. - ' r... ...
■: ■-■ '.. ~iv^ma; t*r s: ■■• -.
’' ’1 - ''.. /^
:; m • -^- -- ■'■7,. X — • •,
'h
., V < pr v • i': *-'*- a ka^rvi^' 'Af''' -- ^>'^^^P^'‘ '. '■■
>t5«r v V' ••' •.■>'?; ■ -. --
'’ ^ i w'" ■ '^'.
Pii *. ‘ ' -= • ' - ■ ' p I -■
■ ’, I ' *'‘ w' * ' F V J'
'h ■ ■/'■ ' I ■’
... - V • * .‘ “^ • |. C ■ rf V - ^ A ^ - 1
4.0^ .., w ' r* H ‘ ^4^ .■ ♦vr. -•. fl
=; ' .'s ^ : ■. ' ■.. co, .-. • - -9. *1
p L '■ ' ^' 'S..: ikyas^ - rtt'.' '.' '■•' ^ i'" L ' ^
. -, v ■ ■ : r -• p •'; ' r _g^fe. .a ■- '
•» • ' - ■ ... p - * “fe'', • .' •■ 1
.... - i; • '■ * =*^ •' ^
'i tx ^ites ..il, „.... -. ■ « : t. '
, N ■"' ‘ -- V - -
T ©■-'■'• '•■ -' • .-'. -- '4 .sa:
:. ■ ' ■, ■-. -,. ■ ■; ' *0^^ ■ ^.. TT ’, - > .■
■,.. -' : - L -, r ■ • : S. ' -■ ^ •.
■ A' • ■ : '■-, - ‘"^ ... I ‘">-^
'••**' 'A --... • ^ A/.. •
v^^gb~vr
^. V,; -. -■ as. -- V ■ •■ - ^
... V -•• .i,,. - - • ■'*-• ■ -. — ■- ^ .- ■ • ‘ ■
’•'■,. A * ^
• •
'V ' ‘ I ^ ' ■ ' ■
A
, '■ ■ ' - -■ ■ ' ' : - ■■ fl 4
***. • ^ *, ♦
'; / ’ N ' '^' ■ : - '.^
'■ .'T,. /• - b :. r y r "'* • ^ ■
* V • ' 4 ' ' • - • * * ••*
oh • ' ’ ' T. __ •
■ - •..: ’ ■ ^.. :
■*' *■' -- ' •. • -...
'■' <- -^^ N. it ■ ^ ''. ^ ■
. • $
A
■ -- ', V
• • * ♦ •. -
'. » ■ *
■ ■ ■ ■ _ ■. ’"i
-*..■ '.T. ' ^ ■■ ' : ' ■ at
: r ■ V — ' .-,, ..._
'•> •. •. -^ i ►• *■ ■. '. •■••■'*.
. '"*■•••• • p.
. -■ T --
...•* >» • ■ « ^?'-= '' “* ' C • • 4 .4 >- ^ L
•; •• r.. ■ •■. p..,. • .fp,
: .'-■* -.••■'-•*■■; ■'■■-' •. ■ - -,.. > '••.. V 5^
t ’■ • ’ J.. - ^ -*■ • '»' • • '■ V *.: i"
"■ ■' ' -. ' •. '., • ■ •■., p.. i;
-<•; ■-■■■•-: ■ ■ .-■■■..., - p..
A *. •
• • *' • V * •a.
V • •‘•'^
. ■
#, I.. •■ -

„, • » y
V '
y * * ^ * »
T O
PHILANDER.
4
Illujlrious SIR,
HO R thus the
Author always greets those e gregioiis and
^ notable Perlbns, who at
%
4
I any Time derive a Lu i stre from their own, or I the Labours of others.
A 2 As
IV The Dedt cation.
As Soon as Some Small Progress was made in a circumstantial Detail of
the extraordinary Adven
ventures which compose the Subject of the ensuing Sheets; great was the Number of Competitors, and powerful their Solicitations, for the Patronage of it.
But when the Injustice was confider’d, of inscribing to others an Entertainment, for which the World was indebted to you, and you alone; ’twas
with the
Dedication, V
without Hesitation determin’d, that, without the most manifest Partiality, Was impossible not to give you the Preference.
.D IS earnestly wish’d, that the Author was at Liberty, by a familiar Description of your Name and person, to discharge the Obligations due to you, and acquaint the pub lick, to whom they owe the Satisfaction and a musement, which may in all Probability, accrue, by a perusal of your unpa
railell’d
VI The Dedication.
rallell’d and unheard of Adventures.
4
But since your innate
/
Modesty and known AVERSION to being loaded with that Deluge of ap plause and Admiration, which must necessarily attend Such an unwearied Diligence to divert your Contemporaries, forbid
that; the disappointed
Town must rest contented with a dazzling Account of those gay and polite Qualifications and Acquirements, which have
con
The Dedication, VII
conspicuoussy rendered you the Admiration of So great a Part of Mankind, and which have induc’dthe Author thus to place you Soremost in that Brilliant class of the Creation, to which you do belong.
For Providence, in its
wise Disposition of Sublunary Circumstances, has created no Nonpareil; and however extravagant, and Seemingly alone, a Person of your Character and Merit may appear, stis without Scruple affirmed, (by
way
4^
VIII The Dedication],
/
way of Alloy to your Vanity,) that on the nicest
J
and most exa<st Calculation, there are within the Bills of Mortality Two thousand three hundred and
Seventy nine, who differ very little from your illustrious Self; insomuch that stwill be impossible to do Justice to your Merit, without at the Same time alarming that Number with a natural and just Description of those amiable
Qualities and Perfedions they So happily possess
\
Dedication, IX
#
* »
T o pass over theresore the Superficial and quaint Ornaments and Charms you owetoyourdress, e nough alone to fill a Volume) let it be permitted, first; of alt to celebrate that jaunty, careless, and languishing Gesture, which attends your every Motion, accompanied by a destructive Roll of the Eye, and a constant Mustek issuing either from y ournose or Lips, a Soft warbling Whistle, or Softer Hum;
noserpent’shiss more fatal
b to
X The Dedication.
to heedless Virgins, nor more to be avoided, cou’d the unthinking Tribe be taught their Path to Safety
*
EXT, (as perpetual Conquests ought to be attended with perpetual Triumphs) don’t let’s forget that graceful and triumphant Manner of relating your every Victory. No damsel vanquish’d by your Charms, whose Captive State by you is not communicated to Multitudes : And who but an
Infidel
The Dedication XI
Infidel would doubt the Truth, when delivered with So sost, and yet exulting Accent, from Lips So charming?
You next shine in a generous Contempt of those dull mechanic Acquirements, which the rest: of your Sex pretend to value; Such as Learning, Philosophy,
See, Poor stupid Mortals, that can be So vain as to pretend to any Merit, and, at the Same time, can neither chant an Italian
Air, or lead up a Dance,
b 2 You
XII The Dedication,
You are Satisfied how impolite is the least; Pretence to those ridiculous, clownish Quahstcations;
and, to bear as near a Re semblance as possible to that Sex you eternally pursue, carefully avoid giving the least Ground to mistrust your having ever ’ thrown away any of your Time So unpolitely as to
attain ’em,
%
And on this Occaston* the Author apologises for
redifying the Orthography
of your Billets : but had
much
The Dedication, XIII
much rather charge the Printer with it than incur your displeasure, for having divested them of a graceful luiteracy, which
may perhaps be their greatest Ornament.
Not to derogate from your ghara<ster as a Lover, or a Man, you are next to be complimented on the Surprising Indifference,
and Absence of Spleen,
with which you can bear the most Severe Disdain of
4
one Sex, and the most outrageous
insults of the other:

• .T S, • > ..4
*
XIV The Dedication
there; What more can the moss; celebrated Stoic pretend to, than to be thus unmov’d at Wounds given
in the moss tender Parts, Love, and Honour?
IF you Seem at any Time to deviate from your wonted Unconcern in these respeds, stwas when with So much Precipitation you convey’d the File of Letters to the Sacred Elm.
Your constant resort to all Places where you
can have the Fair within
■
Eye shot, must not be omitted:

4
The Dedication, XV
mitted; nor your generous Sacrifice of all Deference to the Rules of Decency and good Manners, in a perpetual display of your charming Shape and Voice on all occasions, with no other View, than making yourself agreeable to that Sex, and procuring them new and Surprising Scenes of Diversion and amusement; who
might perhaps grow dull at a Tragedy, if not interrupted by an insipid W hif per, or devout at a Ser
ilion,
xvt he Dedicatidn,
mon, without the officious Tender of a Snuffbox.
Ira perpetual Restraint on all our Words and ac dons be what the wisere commend, you, who discover So manifest an af fedation and Ambition to
ry
please in all you say or do, are indisputably entitled to the Reputation of being a most strict Observer of those Sage Precepts.. ■
In short, whatever Merit any one can derive from a sost Complacency, a perpetual and anxious
Care
The Dedication XVII
Care to be the Soremost in the prevailing Mode in all Affairs and Scenes of Life; whatever hap piness can accrue from an indolent, unthinking Constitution, a Head diseri' cumber’d with those harsh and knotty Speculations, which the heavy Part of Mankind give into, and the Enjoyment of a perpetual Vivacity and Grimace, are emphatically your Due.
IN the compound Capacity of a Beau, and a
C Man
XVIII The Dedication.
Man of Bufiiiefs, none can
more properly than you
claim the Esteem and re guard of
r
{illuflnous slrs)
Tour profefs’d Admirer,
I
and Devoted
%
- *
Humble Servant,
«
The Auth or.
%
\
\,
• /
«
THE
• p
, t • ‘ V..
'1*
THE
^ \
PREFACE
/
• >
D it been imagi
gined so polite an Age as this mould have been fcanda li^’d at the continued Series of
Insincerity and Double dealing
so triumphantly diffused through
C 3 out
• I. • • 4 ^
out the follorping Sheets t would
y y • '
'.mell deserved some Jmall
Pains and Labour, ‘bj fram’d Arguments, and affected Apologies, to have (hemn bom mar, rantable it mas to Deceive and
1
difsemblej mhen done tyith a Viem to the Good and injiru&ion of Mankind j neither mould the Author, in that Cafe, have (luck at affirming, that the Hero of the ensuing Treatise mas led
i
the Dance herein described, in
Order to the Improvement of his
Underfanding, and K formation of his Manners. But since
4
V ' • I •
those
The Preface, XXI
those benign and candid Intern
tions mere frkf rated by his in.
vincible Inattention and Stupidity, the mhole Process of that Attempt is thus exposed, that
haply it might, as a Mirror, point out those vain and aukmard
Foiblefles to thoje, mho stho
♦
in the same Class of underfan ding) might have some larger
Share of Solidity.
.4
\
I
But far from fuvpofng any one jbhofe Curiofty fall prompt him to turn it over, mill he Phlegmatic enough, to think it
; criminal
XXII T be Preface.
• «
criminal to sacrifice a frib Regard to Truth and Honesty,
mhen done in Order to divert
I
and amuse. Without any Ceremonial itttrodubion, mithout repeating, nay, or so much as once imploring the Reader s Patience and Pardon, I proceed to recount thereat Motives and Engagements that produced a 'Publication of the folloming Letters, together
with some Hints and Notices
«
may perhaps serve to illufrate the sukjeb Matter of the Book.
The
The Prefaced XXIII
The mofi prevailing Motive
that mill be allom’d to be unex
♦
ceptionable, being no less that on mboje Hinges all Jkblunary
Affairs turn; to mhofe Qmni
\
potent Guidance and direbion all
the Designs and abions of man kind ome their Rise, Being, and
Continuance • mho that ever mas within a. Mile of Exchange Alley, mill be at a Loss to know that by this Defciption^ Nought can be Delineated but MONEY.

Those
XXIV The Preface.
0
>
T bfe to whom this Compoff tion was communicated, were so find of the produbion, that without the leaf Heftation, they offer’d their Patronage, i. e. their Guineas, and laid the Author
>.. J
under the mofl fivere and tremendous injunbion, no less than the absolute and irretrievable Loss of their Favour, to expofi and
puhlijh it in this Manner.
0
0
If ’tis poffble to find out any who are fi difinterefed as not to deem this as a f nff cientfxcufi for
the
V -
The Preface, XXV
the Author's Obedience, jhe comforts herself with the Assurance
J
that the Number of such muh be very (mall, and consequently (be muh stand acquitted by an infinite Majority; how well
warranted the positive and uw
controulable Commands of her
Patrons are, the Reader will
>
hell judge, after he has travelpd
through to the other End of the
Book. -- -- -- A good Journey to
him.
If the feign d Names of' the Lovers are thought too trite
u and
• r
XXVI The Preface.
and not well adapted to their refpebive chara&ers, that oh je&ion will receive a full and satisfactory Answer, by affirming they are the very same in which the amorous Commerce was carried on; and therefore the Author could not well affiume an Authority of changing them, who
has been so exactly punbual in doing Justice to the herov cha radder, that the Billets pendd and fubfcridd by him, are very
faithfully copied from the qrigi nods, which are carefully preserved.

Many
The Preface, XXVII
* N
f
Many Inconfifiencies will,
without Doubt, he ea (ily observed
in the charaber of urgan da; but the Author is not anxious in accounting for them, being well ajfured, that a judicious Reader reflebing on n Person
fousd by Age, Envy, and Ill nature, would readily grant it to have been an absurd Improbability, had an Uniformity been observed in drawing that cha raster.
'.p ..■■■■■ '. - V - ■
I
d 2 The
• t
A
% 9 ' •
• \
9
V
XXVIII The Preface,
The Letters addressed to Phi
%
will, without Doubt,
afford ample Matter of criti cilhi; but in Regard his are incerted in puris naturalibus it would hardly have been just so have embellished the other • and to any Persons (if any can be imaginedj who are diverted with the following Story, tis prefum’d it will be an additional satisfac tion to refled, that they have them mithout Disguise, in their original Dress, and unadorrid.
Lwould
0
The Preface, XXIX
• • ^
9
, 'Twould be in vain to offer at any other Apology, or attempt any more rational Excuse for this Sally, than what is already given • rather let that Bard he celebrated, who so judicioujly laid it down as a Maxim, that all
• • * J '
Mankind mufl, at some certain Period or Stage of Life, he mad or play the Fool; If that Crisis
affected Philander, and the \ .Author, at the same Time, who
knows whether the several Sub
4
feriptions are not owing to the
same Epidemick Malady? And
*•
may
• »
XXX T he Preface.
may that Malady fill spread and diffuse it self, or sadly neglected will the following Trad remain.
0
9
9
9
♦
9
0
9
4
4
i
4^
love
%
0
\
LOVE upon TICK:
I
O R,
\
t
Itnplicit Gallantry,
N one of those agreeable Evenings which sh ost invite the. young and gay Inhabitants of shis Metropolis to taste the fragrant Breezes, when the declining Rays of the Setting Sun permit ’em to refresh the tall and Spreading Shades that adorn St. james’s Mall; when Clouds of powder’d Beaus and Jpafkling Belles, in that charming Recess, forget the Fatigues of a Sultry Day, and from each other’s Charms light up those Flames, the least of which are infinitely more insupportable than the fiercest and most resulgent Beams of the brilliant God, whose abserice draws out this lovely Train of oifpi^’s artillery; amongst the shining Group of British Belles, Twas easy to distinguish Two, whole Air and Gesture dis ‘ covered their Thoughts and Restedions engag’d
B ori
if
2 LOVE upon Tick : Of,
on a Subject different from what engross’d the gay Assembly.
Their Years had enabled ’em to view, with a' calm Unconcern, all those artful foiblejfesi and ensnaring, though trifling Dommrf which every Word and Motion that the finooth Endjmions tli] ew out, palpably with an Expectation of captivating slime Virgin Idiot; and the Neglecst they had met with in Astairs of Gallantry, hadequipt ’em with Spleen and ill Nature enough, to dis iemble (at least) a thorough Contempt of the usual Commonplace Compliments, and affested Behaviour which thole who poffess the Surface only of fine Gentlemen, are lb lavish of in their addrefses to a Sex, frequently Surnistied with too large a share of good sense not to discover the Ihallow, empty Coxcomb, through the thin and sonorous diiguise of a well adjusted person, and eloquent N onfenle.
From persons in thole Circumstances, Tis natural to expect an inexhaustible Fund of Satyr, which could not want Occasion of exerting itself in' a Scene, where the Pleasure and Indolence apparent in the Countenances of all around ’em, afforded the grating and harsh Rested ion of having been, and being now no more the blooming Objects of such a Tiiodiihj and Sliperficial Adoration, which however despicable in its suf, and in the Opinion of the wiser Part of that Sex, is what (as a Right and Time mmemorial their Dm) they can’t submit to
giving
 . i
giving up, or be denied it, without the moll manifest: and turbulent Resentment;
Did you never see, (lays one of these venerable: Sybils to her Companion) a yelping Lapdog prick up his Ears, cut Capers, and tear his little Throat with Barking; when he has heard the jolly Huntsman wind his Horn, and the deep mouth’d Hounds, with echoing Peals, pursue the boun^, ding Stag? Just so, says she, (pointing to a File of Perukes, will these diminutive Shreds of the Creation, ('shr no other Reason, but because Nature plac’d ’em on two Legs) awkwardly attempt by capering, powdering, writing Billet-doux, cito imitate the Estecsts of a generous and stncere t*affion; though as unequal to the Task; as Shockis to traverle Banjiead Downs,
.Dis difficult to say, whether the gratifying art overcharg’d Spleen affords more pleasure than a fool’s paradise: B ut certain it is, that by this and suchlike distourse, they had wrought themselves into an Humour as pleasant and merry, as could be enjoy’d by Persons of their Age and Constitution j nor was the Satisfadlion visible in their Counte ’ stances a whit inferior to the most ador’d Idol of the Mall. ’twas at this Jundiire, (ptnhappy Moment,) the youstg, the gay Philander, being known to oneof’em, join’d’em, and with anaffedled Grimace and Supercilious Grin, enquir’d aster their Health, told ’em ’twas fine Weather, that the Trees were beaii» tifully green, look’d on his Repeater, and took his Leave
"B 2, Look
I
4  ,
Look there, says the Lady above mentioned^ with an Air of Triumph, Nature cou’d not sh completely have exemplified the Character I have been exposing : wou’d you imagine, continued she, that that Machine contains Nothing but Tare and Tret a leidgevi and a mftltiplication ftable; all the Art of Man could never insuse into his Head anything else; nor was it thought Safe to attempt it, left his lliallow Capacity should be disabled from performing tliose useful Parts of Mechanism; but notwithftam ding this, i’ll engage no one can convince him, but that yon, /, and all the rest that have chanc’d to look on him, are passionately fond of that Swarthy, grinning, unthinking Phijiognomy : Nay, so immoderately vain has he been, as to find a Place in his Counting house for gilt Paper, and attempt to write soft and moving Billets; to direst to his cour tezan, or Lamdrefs, under the Name of a Pershn of Distinction; and to complete the Farce, shew’d me his Productions, to give me, (as he exprejfes himself)) Opportunity of admiring his Talent that Way: Nothing, I am Sure, ■ would contribute more to make you despile that unthinking, fluttering Herd, than a View of Some of those com pting house Lucubrations; ’tis imposhble you should have an Idea of the Man without it.
As their Spleen and ill Nature made ’em utterly disregard any Trouble they might meet with’ in diverting themselves at the Expense of others, she who had thus pour’d out her Spleen, undertook to find out some Method of extorting from the unhappy

 . 5
happy Philander some very egregious Testimonies: : his Weakness and Folly.
More to confirm each other in their altum’d, and \ perhaps affected Contempt of the Follies, and awk wark Finesses of that Part of Mankind which is already describ’d to be so obnoxious to ’em, than any particular Quarrel or 'Aversion to Philander, made ’em Single him out as an Object ridiculoussy adapted for their Amustment; or rather, ’tis a very plausible Conjecture, that the Vanity of showing those few ssie thought fit to admit to her Confidence, the accurate Delicacy she imagined herself capable of exerting in the Model and Didion of those little Episodes
of Love, call’d Billets, made her resolve to. commence a fidlitious Correspondence, and in the person of an enamour’d Incognita, convey to him
Such Notices, and intoxicate him with Such romantic
Ideas, as could not fail to extort from him the 0 ^
moss flagrant Proofs of that self conceit, and contemptible Pretence to Love and Gallantry, which had so justly excited the Satirical Vein of our pre
terperfefh Beauty.
Full of pleasant Refveries on the future Success of their Projedf, they retired home, and apply’d them selves forthwhih to put it in Execution, I, (fays our antiquated Duenna) will write the Letter, if you will copy it, and permit it to he lent in your Hand; to which the other Lady readily consented. Never was the working Noddle of the profoiindest Politician more deeply engag’d in adjushng the intricate
B Z Affaivs
6 LO JVE upon Tick; Or,
Affairs of State, than these Female Machiavals., in forming Schemes and Canals for carrying on and managing that Intercourse with Philander, which was rieceffary to keep up the Spirit and Appearance of a
real Amour without giving him any Ground to fulped: it for Fiction or Design.
less penetrating Wits than theirs, it must be own’d, might, without much Difficulty, have found a Thousand Means of impostng on our Hero, whose native Vanity gave him too advantageous an Idea of himself, not to take everything for stncere Trutffi that had any Tendency to promote the vain and fond Self admiratiouj sh apparent in his Pershii and Behaviour,
By Way of Prelude to their future Farce, an Epistle was fram’d in the following Terms, and sent to Philander by the iffual Method of Conveyance.
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - ■ ■ ■
V’
LETTER L
%
Phillis to Philander,
SIR,
»>
C ¥ Have for sometime had the Honour of the J. « Acquaintance of a Lady, who is so happy f as to be much esteem’d by you; a pleasure, I must f own, I have often envy’d her; her great cha f rafter of you, together with the stnall Share I have? lads by her Means, of your agreeable conversa i tion, hgs inspir’d me with a great ii^clinatioii tq
€ cjim
A,
 . 7
f aim at being one of your Intimates: Were there ‘ a Possibility of my being assur’d of my arriving at « shell a bliss, I would Soon let you know who is ‘ your Supplicant; but to discover myself, and be *■ afterwards slighted, is a Torment too excpiilite for our frail Sex to bear. Let it Suffice, till I can fix a Resolution how to proceed in this Affair, that I < am neither old nor u^lv, and in Such Circumstan
C mi
* ces, that you need be under no Apprehenflons of f an Application to your Pocket. I shall take proper measures how to proceed as my lucky Stars {ug.
Tours entirely y
PHILLIS.
4
This, tlio’ defign’d merely to discover how Susceptible he was, and how well accompli su’d a Coxcomb, Succeeded So well, as to afford them the Plea? sure of hearing their Letrer repeated to them at secondhand, by several to whom he had difclos’d his prospeft osapproaching Joy; nay. So much beyond Expectation was the success of their Plot, sh2.z (among the rejl of his .Acquaintance) he admitted into his Confidence one of our anriquated Duenna s, and express’d much Satisfaction in the Profpeci; of having her Advice and Assistance in the Prosecution of an
Intrigue he thought himself So happily engag’d in.
flufli’d with the iinexpefted success and comic progress of her Design, Ihe Soon gave another spe firnen of her address and de^iteritv in a Second,
R T
^ LO VE upon Tick : Or,
Letter, w hich was convey’d in the same Manner as the former; and it is prefum’d the Reader w’onst want many Arguments to induce him to think that ’tis to the good Opinion she entertain’d of her Wit and Invention he owes all the amusement he may reap from the perusal of ’em, together with the Detail of the Circumstances attending which he may be afsiired, are recounted with the strictest Regard to Truth, destitute of all Ornaments but what will re fiilc from a bare Recital of the Matter of Fast— —
'* ' * W " V ^ •-*-
Rut to the Letter.
I
'A
LETTER IL
#
Phillis to Philander
Dear Sir
^ T has been committing Outrage to the Mode
■ ‘ of my Sex, to write to you as I have
f once done; yet notwithstanding that, a secret
^ hurries me, and, like a bold Dejperadoi I
? pursue my own Undoing.
f The more I consult proper mgaspres how to
f proceed in this Affair, the more I am perplex’d: I
f have my own Reputation at Heart, and fear no
f Prejudice from you; yet the little mean Agents
^ I must necessarily employ in Order to complete a
f safe Meeting, I can’t yet conveniently fix on, by
^ reason J am oblig’d to go into the Country this
f Sealbn with my Relations : But, in the mean tirnes will find out Some Method for you to con
‘ ■ i •• V sv ^!)
’ ( vev
impudt Gallantry. 9
f vey your Sentiments to me; from the Cha^
« rafter you hear, I don’t doubt your Sincerity which is the utmost Satisfaction to
■ Tom Faithful Vnkffown^
FHILLIS,
By this Time, the Effeftof his Folly was visible to thole who were not at all acquainted with the Cause he astum’d an immediate Air of Superiority over his Companions, and treated with the most insolent Contempt, the kind yielding fair ones with whom he us’dsto negotiate for pleasure; their Ex -- hibitions were forthwith stopped, and no body now engag’d his Thoughts but his invisible and unknown Charmer, whom he would often toast under the feign’d Name fubscrib’d to his Billets,
He began already to reflect with Indignation on the unequal dispenlation of Providence, in confining to dull yor^i^ Bufinels oiie whose Form and Merits were So conlpicuousty charming, and had in so extraordinary a Manner given Birth to a Pallion as intense as e’er enflam’d the Heart of Mortal.
4
<
Had our Heroine not retained an Inclination to
*. w; V, J
prosecute the Farce, common Pity and Compassion would not have permitted her to depress his now jiist rais’d Spirits by an immediate Silence, and damp those sanguine Hopes and Expectations he had entertain’d fatal might have been the consequence of Such a Procedure to one whose Brains were of top
weak
10 LO VE upon Tick : Or,
weal a Contexture to bear the Shock of any hidden Difappointmestt. — - But this by the By, to equip pur Wirago with Some Motive besides Malice for framing the following elegant Piece of Invention, and sending it to him in the same Manner as the Sormer,
LETTER III
Phillis fi? Philander.
9
g ¥ Did not think I Should have been hurried on ‘ by the Violence of my Passion to have fet Pen to Paper again, without giving you a Cue, either ^ to assure me of your good Inclinations, or entirely reject me : I muss either Ibon find out a Means « to know the true State of your Mind, and what s Opinion you have of my ridiculous Manner of < address, or entirely abandon my lelfto Despair
« the now reigning Inclinations of our Family f tend towards passing a few Months under the in f ssuence of the warm Sun in an open Campaign; e Country, where I shall be eternally tormented ‘ with the insipid noisy Conversation of what they f call Sportfmen, an Entertainment entirely foreign? to my Inclinations i but hovcever, if blind Chance,
^ a prolific Brain, together with an infinite deal of f Indussry, does not throw me upon a Method of « fixing a Correspondence, I must continue to be mistrable or at leash if I can’t accomplissi that, s I will assuredly attack you at my Return, • either f the one or the other you may depend upon from ^ your half dist rafted FHILLIS.
 . II
A
He had already Love and Impatience enough to express much diltatisfaftion and uneafiness at the prof peft of having his approaching Happiness adjourn’d for so long a Time as might be fuppos’d to determine phi//is’s Stay in the Country : He wonder’d how a person So doatingly fond of him, could have so much Abstinence as to entertain any Thoughts of a Diversion which piust so' necelsarily retard the amorous Congress.
’tisealy to guess how tickling the pleasure was
that poitess’d the envious Aluthrefs of his Epistles,
when he so loudly prais’d the inimitable Style and
Spirit with which they were wrote. Flattery is so \
bewitching, that ’twas next to impossible to conceal
the Pleasure that resulted from it, even tho’ it came
from him; and ’twas very visible to those whom she
would divert with a Detail of her Amusement, that
her taking all Opporunities of depreciating the Merit
of her Performance, and ridiculing those Billets
she had wrote, tended manifestly to point out those Beauties and Graces which are interfpars’d, and are
pretty visible to those who have perus’d ’em; but in
a more particular Manner to herself
•<
to return to our Love creditor. His Stupidity and Want of Penetration was a proper Object for the Envy as well as the Diversion of his Associates. Ye Gods! What ravissiins; and extatick
o
Delight may your Creatures expect from a fincer? and well regulated Passion, when the bare expefta tion only, and that from one unkown, and in mas
qiieradej (ydipse Charms could iiever be fuppos’d to
have
12 LO VE upon Tick: Or,
have made those indelible Impressions that inspire the lover’s Soul with fond and lost Ideas) could caust lb wonderful a Revolution, fb manifestly esseft a thorough Change of Temper, and strike so stupid a Block with Gleams of perpetual Mirth and Joy: Who could not part with all their Pretenstons to Wisdom to be sh agreeably deceiv’d; to be capable of enjoying so charming a Delusion??
agitated with pleasing Hopes and perplexing Fears, with the unealyapprehenflons of his Happiness being adjourn’d by an unlealbnable Country ramble, and (do do our Philander Justice) with a sincere Compassion for the Distraftion of his unknown Charmer, and a kindrefolution of easing and relieving those amorous Inquietudes he had so fatally given Birth to : In this State ospleasrnt Perplexity was he, when the following Minute, by the Style and Writing calculated as if done in hasse, inform’d him, that the next Morning would hurry iiis ador’d Phillis from the own and him.
■ I ■! Mil III I II I — ' I I I II — — PW* —
» • * 4 *
LETTER IV
Phillis to Philander.
> •
C T Have only Time to tell you, that To mor
'row I Set out for the Country, and shall ^ be more or leis miserable, according to the Tiiste
f I am oblig’d to continue there.
Tours entirely
PHILLIS,
He
  ij
#
He had by this Time equipp’d himself with all the uneasy Impatience of a real Lover, often complaining how insipid the Town was, nay, how much it was his Aversion, since he was afsur’d it now no longer held the Person, who otily he refolv’d to think deferv’d his Love and Care.
Many and great were his Squabbles with his [age Confidant as well ss others of his Acquaintance, who in vain attempted to convince him, that all this ro mantick Proceeding was calculated only to expose him. No, no, ’twas only their Envy that suggested that, * he, for his Part, had too much Sagacity to be impos’d on in that Manner; and surely his Person and Merits Were not so contemptible, as to render it improbable, that a Woman of Fortune and Quality should condescend to folicite his Embraices^
This confirm’d our Autumnal Pair one, how proper an Object she had pitch’d upon for her Diversion, and open’d a very agreeable Scene of the a mustment she might expect from a Prosecution of her Scheme, and thereupon she contriv’d to have the following Letter directed to him as if out of the Country.
. wmmammrnmmmmintmmmmimmmmmamm i i in i — i — wiwi — i — db — — SB — —
L E T T E II V
Phillis to Philander.
^ 117h AT can I say? I am a Woman, and
'as Such, doom’d to misery : You have the whole universe to range in, and can chush
where
4. - %
14 Love upon tick : Or,
< where you like; we, by the Custom of our Coufi
® try, are obliged to like where our Parents please i
^ But Ij that have a Soul that cannot, nay, will
^ not be confin’d, mush and will be happy my own
* Way. In this distnal Retreat, I have no Happi
‘ ness, no real pleasure, but in thinking of you j
« you can’t imagine how much you have captivated
‘ my very Soul; if I could but inspire you with
« half my Passion, I ssiould be the happiest Wo *
‘ man breathing, • one Interview would either com
‘ pleat my happiness, or plunge me into everlasting,
« Despair. I have no Hopes but of a Relation of
« ours that is with us, who talks of going to Pun.
< bridge; if stie continues in that Mood, I have a
< very fair Pretence to go with her, * she is wanting
< in sense, and superior in Years, to be capable of a « Confidence, * but from her Dotage and natural Simplicity, I dare attempt to deceive her. Tunbridge « is where Gentlemen of your Age and Gallantry ^ often resort, • if I did not hope to See you there, I « would iiot undergo the Penance of So disagreeable a Companion. But what is it I would not « Suffer to throw my self in your Way? That ^ Thought alone has given me fomeglympse of Happiness, and charm’d my very Soul, and makes me
< even take Pleafiire in my Pains. As Providence had
< deliver’d me from the Bondage of an insulting Husband, I think it hard to be still Subject to the prying
< Humours of an old Aunt, to whom I am un ‘ der no Obligations, but the contrary, my Fortune
< being much larger than berssj and in my own
post
Implicit gallantiir. 15
»
*■ poftefliorio but Custom is such a Tyrant, and Re ^ ])uration so Sacred, that I am oblig’d to Submit to ^ many Inconveniences to avoid censure In my *• spouse’s lifetime, I had a distant Acquaintance ‘ with your Family, we being frequently at Rich
* could never have an Opportunity to let « you know the stncere Affections of your entirely
* devoted
PHILLIS.
O happy Tmbridge! now the Seat of Love as well as Health : With much Alacrity did Philander resolve to vistt it, as soon as his enamour’d Unknown' stiould certify him of her Arrival there.
Phillips being a Widow, added, in his Opinion' very much to her Charms; no jealous Husband, or Bravo Brother was now to be fear’d, who might interrupt his impending Toy by an unseasonable Demand of Reparation for deluded Innocence, or violated Virtue : Cupid and .Mars are seldom in polsesh lion of the Same Breast; the little blinking God is apt to in Spire his Votaries with a more than ordinary" Aversion for pointed Steel; and Realbn good, for hard would be that mortal’s Cast, whose Heart and Lungs should be both transfix’d But it has beest whisper’d, that our enamour’d Hero was not entirely indebted to his Paffiori, but had naturally an unalterable Affection for a whole Skin, tho’ when So »ood
^ o
a reason can be given as the former, the latter might have been spar’d; but howeveiv So it was, and who can blame him?
He
#
16 ho V E upon Tick : Or,
He had much ado in all Richmond, (a Place by nd Means barren of Beauties) to pitch upon a Perfori that answer’d the Idea he had conceiv’d of his Phillis: A t last: he perswaded himself, that a certain Lady who
us’d to reside there Ibme Part of the Year, and was as
/
distinguishable for her large Forturie as fine Perfom had Shown the Elegance of her Taste in choosing him for her Gallant. pleas’d with the Thoughts of having difcover’d the real Character of his kind z)n known., he was very assiduous in his Inquiries after that Ladyj arid where ssie then resided,, * so fiic cessful were his Endeavours, that in less than a Month he had authentic Information, that her then Habitation was at a Place about Twenty Miles from Town Ten Times that Distance would not have deterr’d him from blessing her with an Opportunity of feeing him, the ador’d Object of her Affections, and with no other View than that, ffor ssie was So absolutely a Stranger, that a Person of much greater address than he would have found some Difficulty in being introduc’d) he rode thither, and before he had waited t wo Days, was fortunate enough to see her at herwiridow.
This sufficiently recompenc’d the Fatigue of his Journey, and he return’d to Town full of Triumph and Joy at his Success in so happily discovering his charming Unknown, and being happy in giving her so convincing an Instance of his Esteem, as taking So long a Journey only for a View. But alas! how fleeting are all humane Joys? The following len
ter at his Return convinc’d him that Phillis was in
anothef
 . 17
another Part of the World; and ’tis uncertain whether the lost Expressions of Love and Fondness, in which it abounds, gave him more pleasure, than the Reflection on his late unluccefsful Journey did Chagrin.
LETTER VL
N
Phillis ro Philander
Q ¥ Die with Impatience for the happy Moment, that J' ' bless me with a Sight of the Dearest
V » r.
* Man alive; but am in perpetual Dread of a Dissp
* pointment, my Cousin being taken ill with orieof
* these cursed Kentijh Agues; this unlucky Acci ‘ dent has overwhelm’d me with Spleen, which I ‘ amfure. Nothing will remove but the Sight of my
* everlasting Charmer. Love, Almighty Love, has
* charm’d me from every Object but you alone; and - Should my cross Stars deny me the Happiness I
‘ have fb long wish’d for, I desire no more than a ‘ peaceful Rest in my Crave. That I love you more
< than Life and Honour, witness my unquiet Days ‘ and restless Nights, witness all the amorous indiscretions
< I have been guily of; Heaven knows how ostenmy Reafbn and Religion have check’d me in
< this Purfiiit, and Nothing Sure could stimulate me ‘ thus to perfist in my Guilt, but, the Fury of a Paf ‘ fion which Nothing but your charming self cou’d
* inspire, and no Change of Time or Place cart al
C ‘ ter.
#
18 LO VE upon Tick: Or,
‘ ter. Oh! when; when shall I be so happy as td < See you? If you prove but half so kind and just
•
‘ as I may well say my Passion deserves, the Sun will
« not shine on a happier Woman, than your faithsul
/
PHILLIS.
The Reader, no Doubt, will be beforehand in his Animadversions in the Style of this, as well as Some of the Subsequent Letters, and be apt to wonder how a person, now pass; that Sealbn when the raging Fevers of Love inspire warm and soft Ideas, should still be able so feelingly to imitate the real Dictates of that Passion. But let him be assur’d, that whatever Influence, Age, or Infirmities, may have on one, and that the rougher Sex, yet the im preshons made on the other are so deep, and in Such indelible Characters, that a little Reflection will soon bring uppermost the Traces of former Passionsj and give a Warmth (though perhaps an irregular onej to the Imagination.
But ’tis not defign’d to amuse the Reader with Philosophical Conjectures, or anything else but what directly tends to the prosecution of the Story promised in the Title-page, and when anything occurs that has not a direst Tendency to that End, he is to impute it to the Barrenness of the author’s Invention, whole Pen is apt to keep in Motion,
To reassume our Story. If anything could have added to the Essefts of phillis’s Charms, it would
have been the grave and serious Air visible in the.
Com
 . 19
Composition of her last. Reason and Religion are
Terms very Iparingly us’d in Affairs of Love and
Gallantry, and like Gunpowder when a Fire rages, never till all other Engines and Methods fail. Our
Lover began now to reflect what might be the con fequence of so desperate and unreferv’d a Passion; if timely Assistance was not adminiilred, madness or Death might ensue; dreadful Apprehenflons those and what necessarily resulted from the melancholy Cant of resting in her Grave. Alas! fond Fool, your venerable Confidant could inform you, that all your Pain on that Score was impertinent. love’s a Distemper unknown in the Bills of Mortality. But to convince him that his Phillis was of sound and sane Mind, Urganda, (which Shall be the Name of the sage Direslrefs of this Affair) wrote to him the following Epistle.
♦
LETTER VII
P H 1 L L I S ro P H I L A N D E R. '
C T T Eaven only knows the Sincerity of my hearl J j. * and with what Anxiety I contemplate my « wilh’d for Happiness, • not knowing how you
< may interpret all my Professions of Love and Constancy; perhaps when I am diftating the Nfincerefl:
‘ Sentiments of my very Soul, you laugh at, despife,
< and ridicule me. Oh I What is it I would not * give to know how you receive my just and real
Passion? for on that depends the Life and Happi
C 2, ‘ ness
20 L OVE Upon Tick \ Ory
^ ness of your faithful Unknown, It distrafts me
* how to fix on a Method for a Correspondence; for,
* if you should reject me, i’d rather die than you « should know who it is you despise under the borrowed Name of
/
PHILLIS.
She Spoke the very Sentiments of his Soul, when she seem’d to wish for a Method of corresponding; ’twas what (next to feeing her) he most wish’d for J the Elegance of his Style, he did not doubt, would second his lovely Superficies, afid establish his Conquest. Often, during this Chicane, did he write whole Reams full of Profestioris of eternal Love and Constancy, and show ’em to his Confidant, People of her Cast of Mind are Seldom very free of Compliments, and she was very diligent in pointing out what was ridiculous and absurd in those compofi tionsj but that he had Address enough to impute to her Ignorance and ill Taste. She has likewise, on expressing a feign’d Distaste at some Expressions in some of her own Letters to him, had the Satisfaction of being convinc’d, that she had not a Soul elevated enough to discover the Beauties that breath’d in every Line which Phillis wrote.
’twas happy for him that he had admitted to his Confidence one sh capable as Urganda was of diverting the uneafiness and Anxiety he was under, for Tear the Extravagance of Phillips Passion should be attended with Some fataleifefts: that and little else
4-... __•. >4.... ^ t
em'
 . 21
employed his Thoughts; he was at a Loss to know why the dear Creature would punish herself by delaying So long the satissaftion she so earnestly wish’d for; he, for his Part, would go to the Antipodes, nor Seas, nor Lakes of Burning Sulphur, should shay him from her Arms, would she but once direst him which Way to bend his Course.
A long Interval now ensu’d, in which he receiv’d no more Billets from Phillis; whether the old Lady who favour’d him with the rest was otherwise engaged, or thought him (as he really was) an Object: unworthy to bestow So much Labour on, is uncertain. it’s probable she had resolved to put a Period to her Chicane, and give the Lover a respite from his bewilder’d and blind Pursuit, when the same ill
Fortune that first threw him in her Way, prompted him, (when he now receiv’d no more Billets from
Phillis) to affirm, and with a thousind Oaths and
Imprecations asstert, that his ador’d Charmer had
at last bless’d him with the Possession of her person,
and had already fix’d on a private Part of the Town
most commodiously adapted for the amorous rendez. vous; to these Solemn Lies he would add Such a Description of her Person and Wit, as might justly entitle him to the Envy of all Mankind.
After he had taken all Opportunities of making this pretended Consummation of his Amour as public as the Commencement of it, and by that Means made himself sufficiently fidiculous to her who was at the bot toin of the Contrivance, as well as to those who were
V
pot J she to whose Hand he was indebted for his
C i former
2 2 LO VE upon Tick : Or,
former Favours of that Sort could not forgoe such an Addition to her Diversion, as ’twould be to See with what Face he would recant those horrid Lies he had So Iblcmnly Sworn to, and therefore once more employ’d her Invention, and hammer’d out the following, which was contriv’d to be Sent out of the 'Country as the former.
I
LETTER. VIII
Phillis to Philander.
4 T Have for a long Time perplexed you with a
dull Repetition of my Love, and now am scarce able to hold my Pen, to tell you what a State I ' am in, by continuing So long in this Agmjh Country. ‘ I have had an intermitting Fever above these three ‘ Weeks, and Heaven only knows how long I may ‘ be confin’d here. I shall come to Town as Ibon ‘ as I am able, for now my Healtff as well as my < moil: ardent Inclinations require a Removal from * this Place; in the mean time, let me beg of you not to entertain a slight Opinion of my Love; for « if Sincerity, and the utmost Degree of Tenderness have any Merit, or all that can be kindly fiid or done, bears any Weight, there’s none deserves I your Esteem more than
V -
PHILLIS,
«
’twas
impudt Gallantry. 23
* Twas above measure diverting, to See the Concern and uneafiness he was under at the suppos’d sick ness of his kind vnkfown; he had no other Method of re admitting his old Friend into his Confidence, but by retrafting all he had told her in relation to his possessing of Phillis; her Advice and Assistance he thought too valuable, not to be purchas’d by so
trifling a Sacrifice as that of his Veracity.
It was a Scene easier imagin’d than express’d, to
have leen with how contrite a Face he mufl; inform her, that all he had been boasting of was but mere Invention, and Lies, and with how much ill Nature she censur’d his Behaviour. This Scene of hypo crily was carried on sofar, that she in good Earnest persuaded him, that this Sickness of Phillis was a Punishment from Heaven for his monstrous Lies.
«
How often did she rate him for so black an Instance of Ingratitude, as that of so ungenerously Sacrificing the Honour and Reputation of one to whom he was so much obliged? Our Penitent sincerely resoiv’d to do So no more; and if his kind Stars would restore his charming zlnkfown to Health and him, prornis’d that nothing on his Part for the future should hazard her Health or repose.
’tis pleasant to observe how mere a Piece of me chanism humane Nature isi and how easily wrought on; for behold here a Lover to all Intents and Purposes, made fb by mere Dint of Art and Dexterity; and ’twill increase his Wonder, if the Reader be inform’d, that Vrganda was not Mechanic good enough ever XQ have equipp’d with the Tramels of Love any other
c4 Perj •
24 L O VE upon Tick; Or,
person besides the present Object of our Diversion, the Instances of whose Folly and Credulity were So Superlatively flagrant, as to give her a new Relish for the prosecution of her Plot, which She was refolv’d should thicken on him, and theresore by the following Letter certified him of his charmer’s Recovery, and Arrival in Town.
V
'‘ ■. s * <
LETTER IX
Phillis to Philander
9 •
g T Came to Town yesterday, and arh but in a ‘ very ill State of Health, but being so much
* nearer my soul’s Delight, will add much to my Re
* I flatter’d my self with Hopes of getting a f Line from you, and had fix’d on a very honefttrades « man, who had formerly been a Servant in our Family, < and in whom I can entirely confide, but to my
great Disappointment, he is at present in the Country; I must therefore languish out a few more mi « strable Days, before I can so much as know whether you have received all my Letters; this is the « Eleventh I have wrote you, * if you have re
* ’em I must be happy, or you the mostob ‘ durate of your Sex, or otherwise engag’d by Some
* more happy She. Oh 1 if I should find myself « lupplanted, Distraftion must be my Fate 5 this is
what I must endeavour to find out, and then I f shall with more ease make my Way to the Arm? I of my everlasting (lharmerj there to remain in such
f M”
  25
* Ecstasies of Bliss, as will infinitely surpass what has < ever been enjoy’d by your constant Adorer,
PHILLIS
9
How precarious is humane Felicity! No Joy y^ithout Alloy; how hard was philander’s Fate, who could not enjoy the Reflection of being now in the Same Town with his dear Incognita, and con equent ly much nearer the happy Moment of an eclaircijfe menti without the Perplexity of reflecting that Two of his Letters had miscarried;; furnish’d him with dismal Apprehensions, lest they Should have fallen into the Hands of his Relations, from whom many Reasons made it necefsary to conceal any amorous Engagement.
It must be acknowledg’d to be a refin’d Coup
d’eclat of zlrganda’s^ thus to mention two Letters more than Ihe had wrote, or he receiv’d; it had its intended Esseft, and afforded much pleasure to observe, with what Caution and Art he directed an un^*
f
der hand Inquiry, whether any [of the Family had received any of the two Letters. But Time wore put the uneafiness he fuffer’d upon that Account, and gave him an Opportunity of expressing his Toy at phillis’s Recovery and Arrival in Town, which he did in a most moving and significant Manner; for, stis said he made a costly Collation to entertain his Confidant and her Affociate®
He
0
26 LO VE upon Tick: Or,
He had now so effectually gorg’d the Bait, that a Person of less address than Vrganda might have prosecuted the Correspondence without any Danger of his mishufting it for fictitious; She perceiving that, and finding less Caution necessary, grew wanton in her Diversion, and refolv’d to make him fhewj
(if possible) Instances of his Folly more conspicuous
and egregious than he had hitherto done; with that View She lent him the following Letter.
LETTER X
Phillis to Philander.
4
9
g T Have been to visit the honest man’s Wife I ‘ mentioned in my lash who tells me, he won’t
< be at Home in less than a Month; judge you how
< uneasy I must be in my present State of Uncertainty, < a Condition, I must and will put an End
* to. If I am to be happy, I will know it, * if not, ‘ I must submit to my hard Fate. I think I have f said enough to convince you of the Reality of my ^ Passion j therefore beg and conjure you thus to relieve me from a whole month’s uneafiness, and « my present perplexing Diffidence. That for Four or
< Five Days after you receive this if you are inclin’d ‘ to value me, you’d wear a Blue String in your
< Cane; if not, a Yellow; and i’ll take Care to
* pass and repass iq difguise often enough about the
Exchange:
 . 27
^ Exchange and Change alley^ to get a Glance; if I ‘ see the Blue, I shall be perfectly happy, • if the ‘ Yellow, I must fall a Sacrifice to Love, but you ‘ shall never know your Victim;; I see neither the
* one nor the other, I shall conclude you have not ‘ received any of the Twelve Letters I have wrote
* you.
* Could you but feel the Distraction I am in, ‘ you’d comply with any Request;; can’t ima ‘ gine how I am toss’d between the two Extreamsof
‘ extravagant Love, and Fear of being betray’d; if ‘ you refuie me this, I shall conclude you know ‘ the Power you have over me, and are refblv’d to ‘ be severe and cruel; if not, I shall hug my self
* the dear Thought that I am not indifferent to ‘ the mant love. Were it possible for you to be Sensible with what Pain it is I refrain flying into your ‘ Arms, you’d pity and not reproach, • but instantly ‘ relieve, and constantly cherish your faithful
PHILLIS,
No sooner said but done; the Cane immediately receiv’d its Blue Ornament, and confess’d the ma r ster’s Flame; for Philander would as soon have em ployed it to break Heads as Hearts; he had too much good Nature, too little Gall, to permit it to be sh
* y
notoriously offensive to either Sex. He might now be literally said to march under cupids Banner; for in Fast he was his Ensign, and with his Colours un * furl’d* took various Routs, and with indefatigable
pains
28 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
% _
Pains reconnoitred in one Day every Corner of the Town, which could be fuppos’d to be the Refbrt of charming and wealthy Belles with much Industry and address exposing to their View, in various Attitudes, the Sky colour’d Signal of his Love, * sometimes ’twould dangling on his Button hang, there gently mov’d by the soft Throbbings of the neighbouring Heart, devote to Love and Phillis, while he with careless folded Arms, and love lick fauntring Gate, in the most expressive Manner, represented the languishing Impatience of an expecting Lover: sometimes’twould grace his Wrist, while he; brandishing his Cane with firm and daring Steps, walk’d hastily along, as if hurrying to an Assignation: : the Amber Head would touch his nose, the Ribon gently waving on those Lips, which he by that Means signified' ' Sacred to the Divine Creature whose Colours he wore; none other must profanely dare to approach, forbid it Heaven, and you, O faithful String, guard well that Avenue, permit no Female with unhallowed Lips to taste those Charms re
ferv’d for her alone; nor shalt thou want Reward, never shalt thou be forgot while philander’s Passion is remember’d; not waller’s Girdle shall be more immortal.
The Heat and Vigour of his Imagination coined a
Phillis in every Lady he met, every heedless curlbry
Glance was by him constru’d an amorous Curiosity to
know if he had obey’d the Commands of his enamour’d incognita. But as Phillis could be but oncj he difcov
yer’4
 . 29
verd Love and Curiosity eriough in the Eyes of a Lady he that Day encounter’d in his Ramble, to take her for no less than the person who had enjoin’d him the Wear of the Blue Cane string. Eftablilhed in this Conjecture he follow’d her, arid omitted no Opportunity of displaying a thousand impertinent Aires, and confirming her in the Opinion which most who had talten Notice of him that Day had entertained, viic. That he was beside himself; his Behaviour and all his Gestures could import no less, * his importunate Familiarities at last compell’d her to take Refuge in a friend’s house, and leave him to sustain the Scoffs and Gibes of a gaping Mob. But what o’ that? Many and more severe than those are the Combats and Disasters that every Knight errant meets with in the Purfiiit of Mistrestes, perhaps as chimerical as Phillis.
But Nothing would beat our Hero out of his Love and Resolution to perfilf, in Obedience to his nymph’s Commands, * and for a firmer Adherence so the Letter of her Injunction, he next Day affixed to his Cane a Ribbon of a deeper Hue, true Blue, an Emblem of Constancy. Ishus every Day equipped, he omitted no Opportunity of publishing his Obedience to his Vnknown^ till his Folly became as conspicuous as his Cane string; especially when he declar’d his Relblve to perfist in wearing it till Phillis bless’d him with an Interview, which in all Probability must be Soon, after he had given fb flagrant a Proof of his Love and Constancy.
# •
BO LOVE upon Tick : Or,
0
* Tis to be wish’d, the sage Contriver of this a moiir had not made him exert so egregious an Instance of his insuperable Folly, left the Reader Should, from the Improbability of it, suspect the Truth of the whole Detail, but the Regard she has to Truth, and the strict Adherence to it, won’t permit that any Circumstance in the Progress of this Amour should be. pass’d over in Silence, and hopes some Dependence •will be had on the Veracity of it, especially when the afsurances are repeated of inserting Nothing but ■ what is precisely and literally true.
During the Contrivance of this Farce an Accident happen’d that oblig’d Philander to take a Journey, which must necessarily engage him for three or Tour Days, which gave Occasion to his good natur’d .Confidant to pitch upon as refin’d a Piece of Mischief as could be invented; it was to give him an ashg nation at a Time when she knew he would not be in Town; guess at his Perplexity and Confusion at the Receipt of the following.
V
%imnm ■■■..... ■■■ ...... I I — Mil — — I
LETTER XL
Phillis to Philander.
C T Have seen the Blue Cane string, and am hap
Jl ‘ py : Inexpressible are the Transports with ‘ which I view’d it; I was So infinitely rejoyc’d that «, I distrusted my own Eyes, and came again the « next Day and renew’d my Pleasure,, • to show
C vnu
 . 31
* you how far my Love triumph’d o’er my Reason,
‘ I Solemnly declare the Ribbon did not appear of the ‘ Same Blue it did the Day before, that I am perfectly ‘ convinc’d our senses in the midst of J oy are not ‘ to be depended on. I was in Boys Clothes, and by ‘ going open breafted, have got such a Cold I can
* hardly speak * notwithstanding this, and Ten ‘ thousand other intervening Accidents, I declare
* you are what I adore even to Madness; and if your
* Curiosity equals my Folly, be at rofamond’s*
* Pond next Samrdaj, between Two and Four; ‘ there you’ll meet one that knows no Happiness ‘ but your Esteem, nor no Torment like your Neg ‘ led.
Fly Jwift, ye Hours, and to revenge that Wrongs
When He and I are met ^ be twice as long.
^ %
‘ I must now be plain with you, and beg you’d!
* not meet me out or Compliment to my Satisfadiom
* at the Expense of your own, or any other Lady ‘ that has engag’d your Heart; you much mistake ‘ my Temper if you imagine I can accept a Share j
* therefore I entreat you at first Sight to be sincere ‘ and don’t come near me, unless your Inclinations
* and Desires are equal with mine; then you Shall
* find i’ll meet you with that eagerness, as Shall convince you, my Love is beyond what I have, or *■ can express. I am, my dear, dear bewitching Crea
* ture, eternally and unalterably yours,
PHILLIS.
The
^2  ,
The Time appointed for the Meeting was elapsed before this reach’d his Hands, which affected him with the most: stnfible Remorse and Despair;; disappointment like this was too great to be born with any tolerable Share of Patience; that after such a tedious Course of Expectation, his evil Genius stiould hurry him out of the Way just at the Crijtsossm happiness; that he who had always Succeeded in his Attempts on the Fair, stiould have his Hopes thus frustrated by damn’d ill Fortune; Nothingelle, he swore, could be any Obstacle to his Progress in any Amour; for he, ’twas well known, never had fail’d to inspire with the warmest Destres all whom he had condescended to invite to his amorous Banquet. But
this is the Custom of that inconstant fickle Baggage, the worthy and most amiable Part of the Creation are her Aversion, and often, too often, feel the fatal es feds of her Frowns and difpleasure.
A fatal Instance did Philauder think himself of this her ill tim’d Rancour; he could have no Acquaintance with his phillis’s Humour, nor how stie might be prefum’d to resent her Disappointment, but had heard that the most violent Hatred Succeeds the most ardent Love, when neglected, and that Hell does not contain a Fury like a Woman fcorn’d. ’twas rea fbnable to flippose, that a Woman of her fine Sense would be very poignant, and that it might be suppos’d She could not want Instruments to execute the Dictates of her Revenge. these Surmises, however remote, are the natural result of an habitual and unalterable Passion for Safety, which Philander from his
Youth
impudt gallantrt. 3 3
Youth Up had most religiously entertain’d, arid was incoriiorated into his very Being, • these Impressions were indelible, and not to be obliteratedi no, ' not by Love itself.
Dreadful might have been rhe Constquences of his dwelling perpetually upon these, and shch like melancholy and tremendous Reflections, had not a good natur’d and sincere Friend footh’d his troubled and unquiet Mindj by representing, that the good Sense that Phillis by her Letters mofl: evidently ap pear’d to be endow’d with, could not but prompt her to fiifpedi that other gauses besides Neglect or Indifference might occasion his not appearing at the Place of rendezvous: : mufl, without Doubts know full well, that innumerable Accidents are infe prrable from humane Affairs, sickness, Mistarriage of a Letter, or, what was now the Cause, an accidental Avocatioti, are Incidents as common as unavoidable.
sooth’d with the pleasing Hopes of her putting the true Conflrudion on his absence, he began to recover, in some Meafhre, his ufiial State of Ease and Tranquillity, and visited his Confidant, in Order to impart to her the terrible Source of his Chagrin^’ in Hopes that Ihe likewise would speak Comfort to him, - and confirm him in the Hopes he had flatter’d himself with, of being still happy in the poftefliort of his fair vnk^owni But alas I that was the wrong Quarter to expect redress from; Ihe had long since iesolv’d to lose no Occasion of exerting her ill nak Issre# and grately told him, she, as a Woman, wad
by
S4 LO VE upon Tick: Or
»
far the propeter Judge how a Woman would relent such a Disappointment,, * for her Part, (and Phillis She could not but think had as much Spirit, and as elevated a Soul) would as Soon cut off her Hand as employ it in Writing to a Man, who she had So much Realbn to think unworthy her affedhons; no, ihe’d tear the fond Pallion from her Heart, and persecute with eternal Vengeance the hated Object of her Resentment. In Short, She advis’d him as a Friend, to make himfelsas easy and as resigned as he cou’d, for Phillis was either too mean lpirited to be worthy of his Affections, or otherwise he might depend on never hearing from her more, at least, on any amorous subjeds.
She indeed began now to think the Fatigue of his Impertinence too great a purchase for her Diversion, and would have been glad of this Opportunity to drop the Correspondence, had not Several whom she had from Time to Time diverted with Accounts of her Progress in it, prevailed on her to prosecute it.
After Ihe had Sufficiently fretted him with a Repetition of the reasons she gave for the Improbability of a Continuance of Phillips Correspondence;
she, to show her Assurance in thole pretended con jedlures, offer’d to lose a Small Wager on the next
Billet he should receive from Phillis, which he readily accepted, while she, with a Resolution to lose, fram’d the following Letter, and sentit him the next Day.
LETTER
#
 . 35
I
LETTER XIL
Phillis to Philander.
C T Nhumane Wretch, more barbarous than savage ‘ Beasts, they have Pity if not Love, but ' both are Strangers to your Breast, • how could you « sooth my fond Heart by wearing the Blue Catie ‘ String, and then deceive me by a, disap ‘ pointmentj which has cost me many Tears? I am ‘ now in a State of inexpressible Sorrow, yet am fond < of the least Ray of Hope, and will, in Spite of all * my reason, flatter myself that Some unavoidable ‘ Accident prevented my expected happiness, ‘ and will not wholly condemn you unheard, * this ‘ Thought occur’d to me after I had waited my long, ‘ long two Hours, and immediately wrote two Lines ‘ with my Pencil, and pinn’d ’em under the Bench at
‘ the End of the Bird cage walh^ faces a large
‘ ho) low Tree at the Corner of rofamond’s pond; in ‘ that Place and Manner, if you think fit to leave ‘ your Excufcj i’ll come some Evening and take it ' awaypray let me not only have your reasons for ‘ using me thus, but a general answer to all my « Letters, • if I find by what you write, you Seem ‘ sincere, I shall with infinite pleasure appoint you ‘ another Meeting, and beg you’d let me know whail ^ Days you are most at leisure, and not put your « self to any Inconvenience, for Ceremony is an
D % Enemy
35  ,
« Enemy to all pleasure, and to none more fatal thart ‘ Love : Therefore, if you’d have me value you, ‘ (as I am sure I always Shall) use me with Freedom; * any Time is the Same to me, the meeting only with
‘ Safety is all that affects me. I have no Friend that « I can trust, and did I not believe your Honour and ‘ Generosity to be greater than any man’s else, I ‘ stiould rather chuse to perish in despair, than have « trusted even you with my Love. Ten thousand ^ Blessings attend you, and believe me to be (if you « are what I expect) eternally yoursj
FHILLIS.
Since his late Disappointment, he had taken Care so give eflpedual Directions that all Letters address’d to him should be instantly deliver’d; where ever he was, and at what ever Hour; in Purfiiance of which Direftionsy this last came to his Hands at Midnight in his Bed. The fluttering Joy it brought histrshy restedting that he was not entirely rejected, would not permit him to steep 5 and the pleasure he propos’d in triumphing over his cotiidantey and reproaching her with Want of Judgement, in So rashly condemning him to an eternal Divorce from his Charmer, made him that Instant dispatch a Messenger to acquaint her with the lossof her Wager, and to assure her, that the next Morning he would not fail to communicate to her the Contents of his Bil^; but her Curiosity was by no means great enough to make her willing
to shrgoe her Repost, nor had she Complaisance
 . 37
Sance enough heartily to excuse his giving her fb un feasonable a Disturbance, though she, of all Persons, ought not to have resented Such an Indecorum., who had hammer’d out the Love from whence it proceeded; however, if Nothing elfe contributed to interrupt her kepose, no great Harm was done.
Not So with our over joy’d Philander! a Heart like his, replete with Love and Joy, could not fail with perpetual Palpitation to keep in Motion the whole humane Fabric j as well might he attempt to steep in a heated Oven, as thus wrapped up in Flames.
In this restless, though pleasant Situation, he very opportunely refblv’d to apply himself during the very Crisis of his Extatick Fit, to compose a Letter to be left pursuant to the diredhons contain’d in phillis’s : And surely no Time like this to express the whole Extent of his Love, the Soft Dictates of his Heart. — — But ’tis unnecessary to give any further Account of the Origin of his Billet, the Energy, and natural Beauty that shines in every Line, will convince every one, that it could not be produced by a common headpiece, or on any common Occastcnj,
BEHOLD in
I
*
«
X 4 L E T,
3 8 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
t
LETTER XIII
Philander ro Phillis.
(superfcrib’d. To the only She Phillis.)
To my Dear Phillis,
C T Thank G od you have put it in my Power to let
‘ you know how far you have engag’d my
* Soul. I will only tell you, I have received all
* your Letters with a deal of Satisfadlion, except
* the last but one, in which you give me an Appoint
* to be a Saturday last at rofamond’s pond; but < to my great Misfortune, I went to Richmond last
* and did not come to Town till Monday
* I thought I should have gone distracted at the ‘ Sight of your Letter, that I should be so unhap
* py as to be out of the Way of my heart’s Delight
* likewise found another of your blelted Letters,
* tho’ full of Reproach, it gave me a new Life, * for I
* thought I had for ever lost my happiness; but I ® hope your goodness will excuse my not being in ‘ Town; I can’t be large in this, therefore hope your
good Self will pardon a Man who never will be at Ease but when he sees, or has Letters from you : » I am oblig’d to go out of Town always on the ' latter End of the Week, therefore our first Meet“ “must be on a Wednesday; then you will be pleased to send your Letters dire<5i: ed to me at baker’s 1 cofia~fioufe in Dx; chmgc~alley, • when ever you will
‘ honour
__
 . 39
‘ honour me with that Happiness, Send a Letter two ® or three Days before you appoint, for I always re ‘ ceive ’em on the Second Day. i have now to
< give you the Satisfaction, I have as much Honour ‘ as you can desire, and that I will value yours as ‘ much as your own sels, ' and you may depend I am ‘ not engag’d with ne’er a Lady in this World, ' ‘ therefore rest assured, that whether I See you or ‘ not, I will live and die yours, and keep myself ‘ for my dear Phillis and be for ever your never
< changing Slave,
PHILANDER.
After having, with great Applause, read it over to himself two or three Times, he seal’d it, and with a lover’s Hasse went to the Place directed, and arrived there almost before there was Light enough to discover the little Note; but Phoebus shat Instant, with a propitious Glance, appear’d above the Horizon, and gilded the little Envoy of Cupid, which directed him in that very Place to leave a Line for his disappointed Fair, and there he devoutly plac’d his Billet, with earnest Invocations imploring the Deities, Guardians of the Place, to preserve it from any base intruding Eye, and convey it safe to the fair Hands of the O NL T SHE.
Then taking a Survey of the lovely Situation of the Place, it gave him a fresh T winge for the difap pointment he had fusser’d by hi? Absence,, * rei)
4
40  ,
presented to himself the dear Creature sitting discon? folate on that very Bench, her Head reclined upon her Arm, in vain expe(5ling the Approach of her philander. What Heart of Flint but must o’erflow with Tenderness, to reflect on being the Occasion of so much Chagrin to the only Person in the World worthy of his Care? He was firmly convinced of the Justice of her Claim to his Love and Constancy, and solemnly resolv’d to her to devote ’em.
From thence he went, in Pursuance of his Promise, to the Apartment of his Confidantey to whom he ihew’d the Billet he had been bless’d with the Night before, together with a Copy of that, he had wrote in answer to it, and left underneath the Bench, * and besides the Encomiums he bestow’d upon her’s, his Task was now doubled, and he had full as much to lay in praise of that he wrote in answer to it. Nothing Surely but the immediate Influence of the little God himself could inspire him with
> Thoughts and Expressions So moving, fb pathetic) so apposite.
One ought to be poftefs’d with as much ill Nature as fly was, to recount the various Faults Ihe sound, and Criticisms She made on the Letter he had wrote in answer to Philliss; The Sagacious Reader will, without Doubt, easily point out those Parts of it which are most liable to Exception, and at the Same Time candidly impute ’em to the Violence of his Love, which had intoxicated his Brain : Perhaps a person as far gone in that Passion as Philander might in as manj gracefiff Beautifs in Style nd Coin?.
pofitiog
 ". 41
position of it as he himself did; for it is universally allow’d, that the powerful Influences of Love cause a wonderful Revolution throughout the whole humane System, and ’tis not strange to find in a person agitated by the stupendous Effects of it, that Wit and Folly, Sense and Non fense, change their Places, and are promiscuoufly blended, * whether we, the stupid insenfibles, or they, whose Spirits are thus elevated by the little insinuating God, judge most conformable to Truth, must remain a Secret till the last general Bonfire.
As soon as his Confidant had it confirm’d from his own Mouth, that he had thus thrust the Dictates of his enamour’d Heart into the destin’d Crevice, a Domestic Pacolet was immediately dispatch’d to explore
that intricate Magazine of Love, who successfully rumag’d, and as faithfully return with that elegant Epistle which just now entertain’d the courteous Reader, and she had the Satisfaction of finding, that her hide and feek Lover had not difguis’d a Syllable, but had been exactly punctual in communicating the whole Contexture of it.
The next Day he himself return’d, and finding his Letter gone, without Hesitation concluded, it had reach’d the fair Hand of his kind Unknown; a Person in his Senses would scarce have imagin’d otherwise, and how should it be expected from him? For who elfe could be suppos’d to starch for a Letter there besides the person who directed his leaving one? Nobody could, or did shat’s most certain.
9
pleas’d
^ ^
42  ,
pleas’d with the Thoughts that he had at last apply’d the healing Balm to the aching Heart of his Charmer, by giving her under his Hand such pathetic assurances of his Love and Gratitude, he returned with a Breast full of Tranquillity and Toy, and
began to prepare himself for a complete and uninterrupted Enjoyment of Love and Wealth; no longer mistrusted his being the Darling of Fortune; and the extraordinary Adventures of the celebrated Beauy who fell by the base Hand of the Bravo Financier, did not, in his Imagination, equal the surprising Life he thought himself just: entering on.
However, this Profusion of Joy did not divert him from taking’all the Caution and Care that was necefsary to secure his approaching Happiness, and to prevent the Satal Effects of a Second Disappointment, he secur’d himself a Speedy Receipt of his Letters, by appropriating a horse and Servant, who waited in Town, with Orders to post away when ever any Tetter arriv’d.5 with the utmost Expedition to him, where ever he stiould happen to be absent.
merciless Vrganda, has not Philander already Severely suffer’d? Guilty tho’ he be of the Crime ol Coxcomb, has not that Crime yet been expiated \ Affure your self it’s a constitutional Error, and Tis as just to punish a Man for being purblind; at length extend your Pity, and undeceive him; every cne is by this Time convinc’d of your inimitable ilddrefs and Dexterity in Coxcomb hunting, • Suffer theresore poor Philander peaceably to return to his hmrhlebrothels', convince him Nature never defign’d
him
%
>
 . 43
him for the darling Endymion of any Woman of Wit or Fortune. It will not be, on him Ihe refblves to revenge the Quarrels ihe has to the whole Sex, • ’tis he, unhappy he, must: fuifer for her Twenty Years neg left. Full of hot Spite and burning Indignation for such a long Series of Contempt, Ihe, with the most ill natur’d Ingenuity, prostcutes this sham Amour by writing and sending to Philander the following Billet.
I
LETTER. XIV
Phillis to Philander.
t
Q ¥ Find I am doom’d to be for ever mistrable; I ‘ went on Tuesday Evening to visit the Bench,
< and found my Paper there; Wednesday Noon I « came again, and it was gone, and none left in its ' Room I thought I should have swoon’d away ‘ with the difinal Apprehensions of being expos’d
* and betray’d; I hate your Curiosity, tho’ I adore
4
< your Person J surely you have met with ill usage
* from slime more happy Lady, and are resolv’d to. ‘ revenge yourself on the whole Sex, • but I surely ‘ might have been fpar’d; I, whom you have no ^ Knowledge of, and who can’t have offended you ' but by an Excess of Love. To my great Satisfaction I have made no discovery of my self, neither
* shall I, if it’s poshble to overcome a Passion which I I am too sensible is wrong plac’d. I fiippose, be
^
44 LOVE upon Tick : Qr,
* cause I have accosted you in this Manner, you think ‘ me Some mean or common Woman; if sh, you do ‘ me wrong; I am a Person wholly unacquainted with
* Intrigue) and of Fortune and Quality inferior to ' few. I wihi I had never seen that cursed Cane
* for till then, tho’ I was not happy, I was ‘ not capable of being So completely wretched; ’twas ‘ then Love like Lightning pierc’d my inmost: Soul,
‘ and danc’d in every Vein; but now chill’d by cold ‘ despair. But Oh! the pleasing Transport when ‘ first I view’d you, how eagerly my senses drank ' that dear but Satal poyson! I thought you look’d
< all just and good J that Thought, if possible. i’ll « still preserve, nor entertain any other while I have ‘ lise, or you Love. My Vanity Suggests to me,
that had I an Opportunity of talking to you, I cou’d
< prevail over all your other Engagements; and till I ‘ am bless’d with that Opporturiity, I jnust continue
to be miserable. I can’t in common Prudence blame « your Curiosity and Incredulity, for what can be
* expected from a Correspondence of this Nature? ‘lam raving mad, I know not what I say or do, <■ I will as Soon as possible put my Reputation into
< your Hands; use me like a Man of Honour, and ‘ give me not cause to repent of my Folly. I have ^ no Rest, nor Shall you, for i’ll haunt you like
< your evil Genius., till I am fatisfy’d whether you « are inclin’d to love me. I find this last Project
< has fail’d me, and I can’t justly reproach you, for ^ many Accidents might remove my Paper i but the f pext flistj d? aiif Interview, but with this precau i
........................ ' '!
 . 4 ^
i
*■ tioii, that you previoussy engage not to watch or
‘ follow me. I have confider’d, as you are a Man * of great bufiness, Sunday is the best Day; leave ‘ me to the Management of it, for I must and will « See you, and in Spite of all Obstacles, be your jfaith « full
PHILLIS.
Tis uncertain whether his pleasure or Uneafinels was the greatest at the Receipt of this, for he had been So perpetually harangu’d with the innumerable Faults and absurdities which Vrganda was perpetually pointing out in the Letter he had left under the Bench, that he began to rejoice it had not reach’d his Philliss Hand, and prudently resolv’d to profit by his very Disappointments, took this Opportunity
of assuring his Confidant that the Letter he ssiew’d her, and pretended to have wrote to his Unknown, was merely to amuse and impost on her, * surely she could not in earnest think him capable of writing Such a Heap of nonsence, with an Intent of sending it to a person he valu’d.
r
This Deceit added to his Folly, strengthened his Title to her Resentment, and without doubt invigorated her Resolution to continue her Diversion at his Expense; she cou’d scarce contain her Spleen and Patience, formally to tax him with Want of Sincerity, and the Ingratitude he had been guilty of, in fb meanly imposing upon one who was always so ready to inter
post
4<5 L O VE upon Tick : Or,
post and altifl: him with her good Offices and Advice when ever he requir’d it, • a poor Return for al! her Anxieties on Account of his hitherto unfiiccessful Amour.
Philander, to do him J uftice, did not want a moderate Share of good Nature, and affur’d her, he wou’d no more aft with any reserve as to her, but as long as She pleas’d to continue him the Honour of her Advice and Confidence; he, on his Part, wou’d be most exactly sincere and punctual in communicating every minute Circumstance in the Progress.
Having thus artsully) as bethought, re eftablilh ed himself in the good Graces of his Confidant, he resolv’d) since Phillis had not receiv’d his, to deny to her, as Soon as he had an Opportunity, that he ever receiv’d the Note under the Bench, and consequently
induce her to think he had no Means of con
»
a Letter.
A little Lying has always been held excusable in Affairs of Love, but an Occasion like this Scarce ever happen’d before, and therefore it mufl: be lest to the casuifts to determine, whether this would warrant Such an Inundation of Falfliood as our Lover had already been, and determined to be guilty of. The Design of these Sheets is merely to relate Matter of Fast nor is the Author capable, or equal to the Task, of making moral or other Reflections on any Circumstance that occurs in the prosecution of the Story.
It gave Philander inexpressible Satisfaction to find
by the last Letter, that his kind Vnknown was very
far
f #
impudt g allantry 47
far from forming a resolution to abandon him; and to ratify that Assurance, he next Day receiv’d the following short concise Billet.
. mi ■ y,
LETTER. XV
Phillis to Philander.
%
6 T Have reafon’d a long Time and f can’t prevail ‘ with my self to give you a Mteting till I ‘ have one Letter from you j I find a Place near the
^ Town is liable to Accidents, therefore as I Set out
f
‘ tomorrow Morning for Vxbridgey I will fix up ‘ on some sase Place on the Road where you shall ‘ leave a Letter; I will take Care it shall be where ‘ there shall be no Danger of my being disappointed,
‘ for one more unlucky Accident would throw me
‘ into eternal Despair / yours entirely, ^
\
PHILLIS.
Perhaps ’twill be unnecessary to acquaint the Reader, that Vrganda had Business at Vxbridge, and that she herself went thither, and pitch’d upon a Place proper for such a Conveyance as was necessary to carry on this Intrigue. But ’t\(^ould be doing her Injustice to recount the romantic merry Method she found out for that purpose, since the following Letter, which Soon succeeded the last, gives So peifeft a Description of it.
LET
48 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
LETTER XVI
Phillis ro Philander
C T Think I have now effectually secured my Sell X ‘ against any future Disappointment, provi
* dead you do your Part, and then I shall be complete
* happy. About a Qiiarter of a Mile after you ‘ are past Hanwdl bridge, on the Left Hand, is a
< Windmilly oppostte to the Road that leads to the
* .Mid. is a narrow Lane, at the Left Hand is a « Gate that leads into a Meadow that is very full of ‘ Chalk stones, at the Instde of that Gate, at the ‘ Side of the Tree which is next to the Hinges of ‘ the Gate, I have buried a Horn Box with a Piece
/
‘ of Paper in it, and cover’d the Place with Chalk ‘ Stones J if you please to take that away, and in the
< Box put a Letter for me, • I shall go to vx d bridge again next Week, and as I have done now, 5 pretend to be sick, and stop my Coach arid take it
* away. This perhaps. Sir, may look a little romantic
< and troublesome, but depend upon being Suf
* ficiently recompensed, as soon as I am convinc’d
< by your Letter that you are equally destrous of my
* Acquaintance. Let me know your Leisure Days,
< and i’ll not fail giving you a Meeting, for I am
< almost distrafted at the many Dilappointments I, < have already met with. I hope this Method will
‘ not fail me, which makes me with Cheerfulness ‘ Sub scribe my self, unalterably your’s,
PHILLIS
P.S..
V '
 . 49
/
A Si ‘the Box is wrapped in white Paper, don’t « fail me of a Letter, tho’ it be to tell me, you hate
* and delpise me. If that be my hard Lot, i’ll ^ cease to trouble you mores tho’ I eternally plague
* my self.
As Ibon as this came to his Hand, He thought he Could not be too expeditious in obeying the Contents of it; nay, he had been provident enough to have! wrote a long Letter before he had received the di reftions for the Conveyance of it, so that it was Ibon finished and copied fair; and s soon as it was thus equipp’d for kissing the fair unknown’s Hand of his phi//is, he postpon’d all his other Affairs, to be vacant and at Leisure for a Tourney to the Chalkf Meadow. To complete the Farce, this Place was more than Twelve Miles from Town, and ’twas more to lave her own Labour in fetching his Letters from ' thence, than his in leaving ’em there, that Vrganda did not Send hirn thrice as far; there’s little reason to doubt his Obedience, to what Place Soever he had
been sent bn such on Errand.
• * >
4 ► /
Early next Morning he mounts his Horse, and
I
hies away in Search of the Horn Box, and to his in expreshble Satisfaction, in less than Six flours, he had the marvellous good Fortune So find the Place, and the very Box; it’s presumed, no Instance can be found in a Cshristian Country, since the Warfare
of Don Quixote de la Mancha, of immortal merry Memory, that a Windmill, a Bridge, ' a buried Box;
E and
30 LO VB upon Tick: Or,
and a hollow Trecj ever encounter’d each other in the same Place.
He could not but miftrust, by the extraordinary Situation of the Place, and the Oddness of the Affair, that Witchcraft and Enchantment must neceltari ly be employ’d, and did with muchpleasure reflect, that the very Devils had conspir’d with the rest: of the Creation, to make him completely happy.
After having kiss’d the Box that had been thus happily employ’d by his dear vnkfowny he devoutly entrusts it with the soft Dictates of his Heart, the dear Excrements of his Brain; and no Cat ever took more Care so give a decent Interment to the odorise roiis Superfluities of her Podex, than did our Lover to cover and conceal from vulgar Hands and Eyes the Overflowings of his Wit and amorous Ingenuity, After having carefully look’d around him, to be convinc’d that no prying Eye had discover’d him making thus a Sacrifice to the Cods of the Earth, he remounted his Nag, and jocundly rode Home, above measure pleas’d and fatissy’d with a thousand ravihi ing and diverting Refveries that resulted from bis mif tress’s Commands, and his Obedience.
Th is gave him fresh Occasion to extol to his Confidant the refin’d Wit, and more than humane Contrivance of his M'igelick^ Incognita : Nothing but the
t
most ardent Passion could inspire her with So much Ingenuity; a Place like that feem’d by Nature defign’d for extraordinary Scenes and Events; Some
little trivial Circumstance in the Situation of the
Places
Lmplkit Gallantry. 51
Place, was what perpetually occupied his Imagination; Nothing elst) (at least for Ibme Days) employ’d his Thoughts and Tongue, and he was without cease harrasting his Confidant with repeated De icriptions of it. A Pot of Gold would not more esteftually have chear’d the Heart of the most penurious miser, than his Was with the Horn Box.
The next Day, Vrganda^ with Mr. Noedig, visited the Tree, and Soon rak’d up the Box, in which they found Philanders stcond Epistle, and had the pleasure of observing how exactly nice he had been in shunning those Faults she had upbraided him with in the former; but whether he did not in this afford a larger Field for Criticistn, the Reader will best j udge when he has perus’d it; which is as follows.
«
LETTER XVIL
9
Philander Phillis.
(siiperfcrib’d) Tsh my Dear Phillis.)
Madam,
^ T Thought my wearing the Blue Cane strihg I ‘ was Sufficient to show my Constancy, which Colour I have not, nor ever will change, much less * my Mind, when ever I shall be So happy as to ‘ know the person that has made Choice of a Man ‘ that will for ever know how to be thanksul; there
E 7, sore.
0
52 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
^ fore, dear Madam, believe me fincerej and let itie ‘ know how and where I may be So happy as to come ‘ to a happy Conclusion. With much Grief tome ^ you have been disappointed at a Place where I was to ‘ meet you, and much more when! went and found
* not the Paper; which Loss, I much fear, I shall never recover, until you are pleas’d to appoint a
* Place when and where I shall be So worthy as to
< see you.' You may depend upon my Honour, I « will not be curious, and will desire to know no
more than your Leave will permit me, on which
* may depend; for I am a Man that will not ‘ forfeit his Woist on no Terms. I commonly go
out of Town the latter End of the Week, and re ‘ turn on Monday, therefore beg you to make our ^ Meeting of a Wednesday and that to be in London
* we may be with more Privacy, ■ and your
* best Way is to come and see for me, for I assure
< you, that is your lafest Way, since I will take « Care of your Reputation as much as you your own
Self, on which you may depend; and rest assured, « that I remain your most humble, and obedient Ser
mr
‘ vant to command,
P HI LAND EL
¥
P. S. ‘ After I wrote this, - I received the Favour
* of your’s last Saturday Night; and I have only to ‘ add, that you may depend I will for ever value
yon, desiring you would appoint a Meeting ipee dily, for I am now out of Patience for that happy
'Time
^ »
 . 53
f Time when we shall be together : I beg you’ll no longer delay it, and the first Wednesday you’ll be f pleas’d to appoint, the best and Safest W ay is to be ‘ at rofamond.s pond, where I will not fail to be as ' soon as you’ll let me know it, which will be at ‘ Four a clock in the Afternoon, * there I will stay ^ till you come up and Speak to me, for Fear of a ' Mistake. When you are pleas’d it should be So, ‘ let me have a Letter two Days before, because there ‘ may not be a Delay, as I have found besore, which < was the Occasion of our Disappointment, hoping ‘ there will be no more; fb remain with Impatience
* till that happy Hour, and you may depend on me to
* to be your unalterable Servant and Lover. Pray ‘ when you appoint, note the Day of the Month it « is to be on, that I may not meet vvith more disap
* pointments, for another will make me distraded,
* since I have now no other Desire in this World
? than to see you, and then I shall be your happy
*
i
PHILANDER.
^ > w
’twas now almost imposhble to irnagine what Subterfuge Phillis was next to have recourse to for card

rying on the Deceit, aster expressing sh much Impatience, and repeating So often, that she waited for Nothing but an aisurance of his giving a Savour, able Reception to the Tender she had made him of her Pershn, and a mutual promise of Constancy, Secrecy, and Love; and after all, this was so emphatically dpiie in his last, how could she acknowledge the Ree
i ceipt
I
54 L O VE upon Tick; Or,
ceipt onst without immediately flying into his Arms? If the Receipt of this Letter likewise was disown’d, Twas unreasonable to imagine Such an Addition to his Stupidity as not to difeover the whole to be a cheat.j
In this Exigence, it fortunately occurr’d that Phh lander had drawn a Parallel between this Affair and the Fortune osbeau W— — that Whim deserv’d to be encourag’d, and promis’d an inexhaustible Fund of ridiculous Buffoonery; excellent Fewelfor her Spleen,
It is to be premis’d, that Philander, (among the rest of his Accomplishments) was blefs’d with anun latiable Appetite for Money, and Nothing gave a greater Cufl: to his pleasures than their Cheapnefsi an Expectation theresore of Profit added to the tickling his Vanity, could not fail of Securing his whole self, and make him the more easily Swallow the most gross Absurdities.
The person of his Unknown was now to be the second course, • he mufl first; of all receive a Blessing of an inferior Nature, his Joy mufl: have a gradual Af sent, his Heart would not contain it, if adrainifired all at once : Common and vulgar persons can meet, and proceed to the Consummations and Rites of Love, hut the Nicety of his Philliss Passion, would not permit her to embrace a Man whom fly had notpre vioufly laid under Obligations, a certain Method of iecuring his Ohrequioushefs and Obfervancy. This was striking a bold Stroke, and produc’d the following Billet, which Philander receiv’d about a Week after his Journey to Vxhridge^
"■ ‘ ^ ' LED
impudt Gallantry, 55
, ft
LETTER XVIII
Phillis to Philander.
C
4 H E pleasure I had in taking up your Let'
'is infinitely beyond what tvords can ^ express; this you must believe, or think all I have wrote is Farce and Banter; but to alture you of the ‘ contraryj I have resolved before I meet you, to do ^ Something to convince you beyond all Contradic ‘ tion, that I am one that entirely loves you, and of
^ that Fortune, Generosity, and Charadcr, I have ‘ all along pretended to, and in Gratitude shall be shidly cautious of your Reputation.
‘ I have Thoughts of presenting you with a handsome Equipage, which if you please to accept, let ^ me know where to lend it, and in whole Name, • if ‘ ’tis agreeable to your Inclinations to make a Figure ‘ in Life, I will send you a Thousand Pounds in
* Bank Bills : don’t refuse the Equipage, if ’tis ‘ agreeable to you to appear in one; for I Shall settle
* on you Such an Annuity as Shall Support you in it ^ for Life. I know your Character, and that the ^ greatness of your Soul will prompt you generously to refuse my proffer’d Bounty; No, Sir, I
* infifi: upon your Acceptance of it, in one resped
‘ or the other; for the person that will not be oblig’d
‘ by mcj is under no Obligation to be Secret. A'
'all, let me entreat you to admit no Confidant
< in this Affair, unless you have a Friend osapproved
E 4 ‘ Good
56  ,
‘ Goodiiefs and Probity. There will be a Necessity ‘ for a T bird person, and I for my Part, know no ‘ body I dare trust, therefore be very careful in your ‘ Choice. Since I have been so fuccessful after my ‘ many Disappointments, tp meet with your dear f Letter, I can think of rio better Place for you to ‘ leave a Line for me, enclos’d in a Box, as before, ‘ which pray delay not to do, and let me know by < which of the Ways I have inentioned you will be ‘ most oblig’done or the other you must have before I See you, then we Shall meet without Scruple, f you without the least Distrust of my being what I f pretend to, and I without the Fear of you, and * with an Eagerness Suitable to the Dignity of my f Passion, and the goodness of the Man I adore. « Tho’ I once attempted to meet you, I am now glad « I was disappointed, the Place was too public, I ' have a much better in View, and in London; and « from our first Meeting we will So Settle Affairs, as f to meet often without the least Danger of be f ing censtirsh by any Mortal You need be under f no Apprehenfioiis of my being impertinently trou
5 blesome, or engaging too much of your Time. No, ‘ Sii^ the Regard I must and will always have for my f Character, won’t admit me to give you very frequent ' Meetings. J once more beg your utmost Gare and f Caution, and you’u for ever find ine your coii f stant Adorer,
■ j > C %
I
PHIL LIS.
V V '
Bn
impudt Gallantry. 57
P. S. ' Let me know, if I lend the Bank bills, r whether they’ll come safe, if directed as usual;; not, let me know how to send ’em.
His swallowing lb gross a Bait > as this, makes hirn appear an Object too contemptible to engage the Art lieoal of any person upon Earth, and So wou’d he have appear’d to the Sage Vrganda, had she not prudently confider’d, that it was owing to her Management and Dexterity that he was disengag’d from that little Sense and Reason he was before Master of.
’tis certain he was sofar from distrusting his Un? known’s Performance of the generous Offers stie hast made him, that he very feriousty applym to his Confidant, to advise whether the Equipage or the Money was most proper for his Acceptance; and after mature
Deliberation, very modestly condescended to accept of the trifling Present of One Thousand Pounds; and in this only Instance does 'Urgandats Conduct seem to be unwarrantable, in that she did him a real Injury; for he was so firmly and fully assured of the Reality of the Offer, that he was on the Credit on’t guilty of Some false Steps in Point of Economy, and had it not been for the diswafions of his Friend, he would have fitted up a House with expenflve Furniture in some Place proper for his approaching' A ffignations, and had proceeded sofar as to treat with one of his female Acquaintance, and to offer her a very liberal and plentiful Exhibition to reside there, and take Care to supply him and his Phillis with all necessary Accommodafions,
'...."" m
58 L O VE upon Tick : Or,
But however, Twas judg’d by him and his Conff dante to be by no Means proper to defer answering the last Letter, and the Contents of it could not but put him upon showing it more Respect than the last he sent; a Horn Box was by no Means a proper Vehicle for Such a Profusion of Love and Gratitude as this M Dispatch was to be charg’d with, he therefore very judiciously determined to give it a more pompous in terment, and as he had all along consulted his faithful Confidant on any Emergency, he now demanded her Advice, who (knowing that she herself was soon to be in polseffion of it) very modestly made Choice of an elegant nd beautiful Snuffbox, which she told him could not but take the Eyes and Fancy of his ^inknown, and besides the Recommendation it would be to her, that it had been instrumental in conveying a Letter from him, might be an acce))table and usesul Present, and a Means of perpetually engaging her Thoughts and Imaginations on his Love and Gallantry. In it he inclos’d another elegant Billet, and made a second J ourney to the sacred?, £/«?, whole Root he had buried his last, and there made this Second Deposit of his Love and Wit, which is as
follows.
< *
r
LET
 . s9 ^
LETTER XI.
t
Philander So Phillis.
Dear Madamy
t H E Satisfaction I have had in the blessed Fa
JL f your of your agreeable Letter, is impossible to express, finding myself unworthy of the Fa ‘ your you design to bestow on me; and can only ' assure you, that my only wish is to know the ‘ Author of So many fine Expressions, and to assure r you, Madam, that it shall always be my Study how ‘ to respecst and value your Honour to the lass: De
* as you would do your own Self.
‘ I return you Thanks for your Offer in sending ‘ me an Equipage, which for many Reashns I don’t think proper, having always my uncle’s at Com ‘ mand, • and as for any other present, I think it needless,
but since you lay your Commands upon me
< rd rather obey than be impertinent. As tp direct ‘ anything to me, I think the Way you h^ve hitherr
* to made use of is safe; but to be more cautious, if
< you Send it to any of the General penny poji ojiicesj ^ telling them it is of Value, they will enter it in their ^ Books, and then there is no Danger. As to a ^ Third Pershn, I will take Care to make Choice of
'a trusty One, but will defer it till Such Time as ‘ we have had one Meeting, which I pray may be « as Soon as possible, for I shall never be easy till I See I a Lady that makes So rniich Efteein of me, hoping
■ ■ ' * ' L
'i A
60  ,
‘ I shall have Sense enough to be for everthanc ^ full. Pray, Madam, let it be no longer delay’d our ^ Meeting.
ifurfue your Chase,
.And on my Honour depend i When you and I are met,
Tou will never repent.
g
‘ I beg for god’s Sake, you’d take me out of this ‘ Pain as Soon as possible, for till I am so happy as to f see you, I shall never be easy i for surely it mufi ^ come from God so great a Blefing as is preparing for
• V •
1 shall once more let you know, I have Ho
^ in me more than can be expected in Man, and « so remain for ever praying for your Welfare, yout * most humble and most obliged Servant and Lover,
PHILANDER.
%
} '
P. S. ‘ Pray when you write, you would date your « Letters, and let our Meeting be on what Day you < please, only let me know it two Days beforehand « then we v/on’t be disappointed, I have many
Things to Say when that blessed Day shall come.
It did not lay long there before Vrganda seiz’d it as a Tribute due there refin’d Invention. ’tis hard to say whether he or she took most pleasure in these mad Rambles, since ’tis said, there’s as great Pleafiire in being Cheated, as to Cheat; and whatever pleasure
he promised himself from the complete Enjoyment of
that
* #
lmplkit Gallantry. 6 i
that Love to which this was only a Prelude; she reap’d no lesson refleding on the applaiise her Ingenuity would meet with when ever she should publish to the World this fuccessful merry Produtst of it.
But what was now to be done? ’T would be carrying the Jell a great deal too far, besides giving the Laugh out of her own Hand, to have sent the Thousand Pounds he had so graciously signified his Acceptance of; file was loth to do that, and equally loth to forego the Diversion she promised herself by prose curing this Affair a little farther. She very prudent * ly confider’d, that in real Intrigues, Nothing contributes to keep up the Spirit and Vigour of the Passion more than a well tim’d Quarrel, and that the Fair one’s Wit and Smartness never appears more to Advantage, than in the genteel and tart reslediions dictated by a pregnant resentment. But while the
Lover was all Submission and Obedience, stwill be
\
hard to pick out any Circumstance whereon to ground her Indignation; no Matter forthatj a fiditious Quarrel may very properly owe its Birth to a fictitious cause, and ’twas very easy, while there was the least Probability of the miscarriage of a Letter) to deny the Receipt of this last, and the Neglect of answering a Billet So wondersully obliging as her’s was, eou’d not but be suppos’d to give ample Occasion for her Anger.
Besides diversifying the Scene of her Amusement she had other Ends to serve by taking this Method.'
First, If his Acceptance of the thousand Pounds was
noc
61 L O VE upon Tick: Or,
not notify’cl to herj he could not expel: to receive it, and So that Difficulty would be obviated. Next She began now to wiffi for an Opportunity of reviewing the progress of this Correspondence, which could not easily be recollected without a perusal of her own Letters, which She had not afforded Pains enough to keep Copies of, and a Demand of them would be absurd, without pretending a Quarrel.
On those Coniiderations, therefore She resolv’d to deny the Receipt of his lash (which to add to his Chagrin, came inclos’d in the Gay Box) and from thence take Occasion to expatiate on the m^ic of her condescenfions, and his Ingratitude; this was a very copious Subject, and how well she acquitted herself in this artsul Imitation of the passionate expoftula tions natural to a neglected Female, the Reader will ^ befl: judge when he has perus’d the Letter, which is as follows.
-- -- * - ‘ -- -^ -- -- ’, -■ ■ ■ -- -- -, -- --
LETTER XX
Phillis to Philander.
^ W ^ ^ ^ ^ deserve your Neg
‘ le<5l fb far, as not to receive a Line in ‘ answer to my last?? you bound down by < Nature and Inclination to be a counting house « Drudge for ever, and entertain no T aft of a politer
* Scene of Life? Or do you imagine sh offer what
* is not in my Power? No, Sir, what I offer’d
‘ comes infinitely ftiort of what I intended for youi
‘ This
-
Iniplicit Gallantry 6j
« This you poctibly may not believe; but what can ‘ I do farther to demonstrate my Sincerity, if the
< unreferv’d Tender I have already made of my Per ‘ Son and Fortune won’t do it? The violent Pre ‘ judice I had entertain’d in your Favour, made me ‘ flatter myself with Hopes that you had differ’d
< from the general Character of your People; but ‘ since I find you a true Inheritor of your Forefa ^ therss Incredulity, I mufl: leave you to the State of
< Drudgery your Stars and Constitution Seem to have defign’d for you. I can’t but think it the greatest
‘ Misfortune of my Life, to have thus inadvertently
< plac’d my Affediions upon a Person so invinci ‘ bly stupid, and shall find it the hardest Task I ever
* met with entirely to forget you. This one Re ‘ quest I have only now to make, which, if you re ‘ tain the least Spark of Honour, you must grant,
‘ that is, to return me all my Letters, and I will return ‘ yours, * you may send ’em in a Box to the same
* Tree where I had your lash I conjure your immediate Compliance, and in Return, i’ll promise never « more to aim at lifting you up above your Genius
‘ Had I not been blinded by the Violence of my Paf ‘ fion, your disrespedfui Direcstion to me, in one ‘ of your Letters, to come and look for you, might
* have let me into your Character, and deterr’d me
< from ever having given you any further Trouble. ‘ I am, (as Love and Friendship will always oblige ‘ me to be) your Friend to serve you,
PHILLIS.
More
9
64 LO VE upon TI C ic : Or,
More good Manners could not in Reafbn be ex |)e6ted, when so good Reasons were given for her Resentment: And ’tis easy to believe, that Vrganda had often written Letters of this Stamp, without being at a loss, (as she now was) for a real Occasion; ’tis else Scarce credible she Should So fortunately hit upon a Style and Expressions which So naturally display she resentment of a disappointed; neglected, enraged Female.
But who can describe Philanders disquiet and uneafiness at the Receipt of this? Thus by one unlucky Accident to lost a fine Snuffbox and a miftress, could administer no Small Affliction. The Perplexities and pleasures of Love consist equally in Imagination, and ’tis alike dissonant from the Character of a Man
of sense and reslediion, tobeaffe<sted with the one as with the other. The admirable address of Vrgan
da, first in an artful Imitation of Love, and afterwards in So naturally counterfeiting real Anger, and sincere Resentment, plainly ftiews how ill grounded are the pleasures and Pains which refiilt from the Smiles or Frowns of that Sex j to view them in a just Light, they stiould be look’d upon as a Race of Mortals by Nature defign’d for the Plague of the rest of the Creation, and all their Allurements, all their Charms, as So many Baits, calculated for carrying on that their Sundaitiental and principal Pursuit.
For Want of such a Regimen as this, poor Philander was once more at his Wits End, incapable of enjoying his Rest, or exercising his Reason Sometimes
mad’
impudt Gallantry 6$
Iliad as a raging Bulb imprecating the hottest very geance of all the Gods on that accuiied Hand that he suppos’d had remov’d his Box; at other Times all calm and gentle, imploring an Opportunity of convincing his Unknown of his Love and Innocence nay, his Madness would sometimes extend sofar as to arraign even her, the divine Object of his af fedions, and in the bitterness of his Heart, to belch out most severe Reflections on her over hafty Credulity and Want of Consideration. His Anger was carried to such an Heighch, as to break out in the most tremendous Declaration that ever issued from the Mouth of an expedling and impatient Lover: What Heart of Flint but must recoil and fti udder, to hear him Solemnly affirm, that he Should never love her So well as heretofore? So much had her indiscreet Upbraidings depreciated her in his Esteem.
But the most furious Gusts of Passion Soonest blow over, and he, with the Assistance of his con fidantcy recover’d his senses enough to resieft, that he was not quite destitute of Hopes, since his Vnknown had given him an Opportunity of Writing j that Thought afforded him the comfortable Assurance of regaining her Esteem and Love by the inimitable and refistless Energy of his Peuy (for he had ever entertain’d a more than ordinary good Opinion of his Performances that Way) which establiffi ed him So firmly in his Hopes of Success, that all the Arguments his Confidant could use, would not perlwade him to show a Submiffive Obedience by returning her Letters, pursuant to her peremptory
F Man
66  ,
9
Mandate : No, as they were dearer to him than his Idfe, he’d as soon part with the one as the other, and boldly refolv’d to disobey; ‘twas Time enough to do that when all other Means fail’d; at present it musl Suffice to pacify her haughty Soul with this Explanation of the Innocence of his Behaviour and Puncluality in answering her Letters,
-- -- -- -- -- -' ' ■' '
LETTER XXL
Philander ro Phillis.
Dear Madam)
C ¥ Have receiv’d my dreadful Sentence this Day ‘ by Favour of a Letter from a Lady that I have « esteem’d from the first of our Correspondence, * I ‘ cannot find any Relief till you call that dismal « Doom back. Give me Leave to clear my Inno ‘ cence, of which I ffiall give such Proofs, that you ‘ will entirely believe that I am the Man that shall for ' ever know how to value you, and regard whatever ■ < Shall please to command j therefore, for god’s « Sake, don’t think I have any Ways neglected your « Favours; for I here protest on my Honour, that « the Moment I received your Letter, I instantly ' gave answer, and Such as I thought would make * me happy; but to my great Misfortune, I find it ‘ is not come safe to your Hands, which will be the « Occasion of my everlasting Despair. I beg you’d I believe, that what I say is for the Sake of your
‘ Person
lmplkit Gallantry. 67
* Person, and not for your fine Promises of Presents i
* and believe me, I am not so incredulous as you imagine me to be j lor I protest to G od and ourselves' ' I am now under the greatest Pain imaginable, and
* am not capable of enlarging farther, but conclude ‘ your Slave and distracted Lover till Death, which ‘ won’t be very long, unless you reprieve me. I ‘ beg you’d pardon my not sending back your Let
*, • for, as I hope you will not condemn me
* without a farther Hearing, foi hope you’ll still ‘ call brck that dreadful Sentence, and beg you will ‘ conftder on the Man that will for ever love you ‘ In short, if I have not a favourable Answer, I shall ‘ not be able to outlive a Loss so great as your dear ‘ self. If you please to honour me wit h a Meeting,
* and you won’t have me know you, pray come ‘ mask’d; I give you my Honour I won’t offer to
* be inquisitive, nor desire anything farther than ‘ you’ll permit me. I am distracted
PHILANDER.
Philander was far short of his Mark; no Subterfuge would prevail with his Unknown to forego the de mand of her Lerrers; vrg^mu was nor of a Tempec easily to give over what she had once attemptedand as she had resolv’d to get the Letters into her own Hands, would not be satisfied without them; ’twas insupportable to her, to think that he who had been sh long and thoroughly her Dupe., should now evade the Performance of anything she exacted from him;
F 2 besides,
k —.. •
6s  ,
besides, st was possible Some unforeseen Accident might discover her to be the Author, and then he in his Turn might find an Opportunity of retorting the Injuries he had received. As She now held him by the double Ties of Love and Avarice, on this Occasion ffie resolv’d to use both, *
’tss pleasant to observe, that as much Curiningand Forecast, Plot and Contrivance, are made use of in the most trivial Affairs, as in all Probability might, if employ’d in other Instances, determine the Fate of Empires, * whence ’tis natural to infer, that as much goes to the Composition of a Buffoon, as a Politician, and in that sense our vrganda’s not inferior to the great Alberoni; and to carry the Corollary a little farther, where the Cardinal would have lent one of his Devotees on a Pilgrimage, llie has sent her’s to the hollow Tree, and both seem alike to deal in pe nances and Pardons.
But to return to Philander Great was his Surprise, insupportable his uneafiness, when he found his last met with no better success, and that instead of an immediate Reconciliation, which he imagin’d would ensue upon the submiffivecontents of this last, he found the Demand of his Letters repeated in stronger Terms than before. But ’twould be doing vr gcinda Injustice to use any Words but her own in expressing the Arguments she made use of to get them from him.
9
LET
»
Gallantry. 69
LETTER XXII
Phillis to Philander.
g T Have been Ib happy as to find your Letter, but ‘ am very, much alarm’d at not finding my ‘ own, not knowing what Conflrudion to put
< upon a Ref usal of that Nature, unless it be with an
* Intent to expose me. I dare challenge you to pro ‘ duce a President of a Man of honour’s not com ‘ plying immediately with such a Demand. ’tis
* with infinite pleasure I resledi upon my past Con
‘ dust; had I appear’d, I should have been inevita
* bly ruin’d j but now, as my Hand is known only ‘ to few, and those none that you converse with, I 5 am under no very uneasy Apprehensions: : if ‘ your Intentions correspond with your Profeshons, ‘ to what Purpose Should you aim at making me un
* easy \ I, for my Part, would do anything, tho’ ‘ never so hazardous, to convince you of my Love, « and to be deny’d such a Trifle, is a very ungratefujl f Return.
‘ I since really wish I had gone to France this Summer
< with my Sister, whole Husband is there; ‘ which I certainly had done, had not the Thoughts
< of Securing you first prevented me. Though in « common Gratitude, I must own, I am in Some
* measure indebted to you for the great Plenty and
< Affluence I at present enjoy : in case I had gone
< then, I had certainly sold all my mijjijipi, which is
F 5 ‘ liiice
70 LO VE upon Tick: Or,
I
\
'since sold at Thirteen Hundred, very much to my ‘ loss, as that Affair stands now, and my Brother ‘ has invested it in Dutch Eafi india Stock. I am at ' present in the utmost Confusion, and know not
* how to dispose of my self; I love you to Di ^ stradlion, but dare not trust that Man with my Reputation, who refuses me the only Thing that can ' convince me of his Honour. I’H resolve, as soon ‘ as the Weather mends, to go to Holland, * perhaps ‘ the different Conversation and Amustments there ^ may stifle this fond Passion, How happy should I
have been to have had your house to make my « Remittances to, for I know none with whom I « dare trust so great a Sum. I will resolve to go, but ‘ remember, that whatever Changes, Chances, or
< Accidents of Life shall happen to me, I shall for « ever adore you, and wish you had as much Honour
< as I have Lovet, You can’t blame my Cau ‘ tion, for who, in common Prudence, would trust
* a Person that refus’d to put it out of his Power to
< do an Injury? We are taught to believe, that the « Honest, Generous, Just, and Good, never desire to ‘ have it in their Power to do ill, but throw up all « to evince their Sincerity. I am, as I shall ever con? timie,
4
Your confiant Adorer,
FHJLLIS.
P. .Sa
4
 . 7i
P. S ‘ I shall go to Vxhndge before I depart the * Kingdom, and Shall call at the Tree for my Letters: ^ Perhaps on Second Thoughts you may See yourself ‘ in the Wrong, if not, I mull fall a Sacrifice to ‘ your preteiided Honour, and curse my Folly. You ‘ desire me to meet you in a Mask j how can you ‘ think me so easily impos’d on, as to have Honour ‘ in one Part, and not in another? No, Sir, Ho ‘ nour is a Perfection of so nice a Nature, that its
< Votaries are incapable (on the most trivial Occasion) t of acting contrary to its Dictates.
Alas! too cruel and inhumane Fair! is Nothing of Force enough to divert you from your barbarous resolves? can’t you be content with denying Philander the View of your Mask, without adding to his Misfortunes the loss of your dear Scrawls? Thus did the unhappy Swain argue, and in the most moving Strains, deplore that fatal Hour and Accident that had drawn down the Dilpleafure of his ador’d Vnknown, In vain did he endeavour to prevail with himself to part with those dear Instruments of Love, and in vain attempt to dare to disobey; fatal might have been the Consequence of such a Procedure; one so Soon provoked as fly was, and that without any certain Proof of an Offence, would without doubt be inexorable on Such a bare fac’d
r
Contempt of her Command.
In this Dilemma he was strongly induc’d to return the Letters, on Consideration of her having declar’d} that Nothing deterr’d her from giving him an
F 4 Inter
72  ,
Interview but her Suspicion of his Honour, which he could not but imagine would be effectually clear’d up by such an implicit Obedience; he had too most extravagant Expectations from Such an Interview, and did not doubt the immediate Possession of the large Fortune ihe boasted of, as well as her Persona Woman, enamour’d as she was. Surely could deny Nothing to the Man she So passionately lov’d, one happy in So engaging an address, in a person So lovely, So replete with insinuating, bewitching, and irresistible Charms.
I By his forming these politic and designing Schemes, ’twas easy to difoover him to be in a great measure distngag’d from those Ties of Love with which he had been heretofore so effe<stually muzzled j in good Truth, her avow’d Suspicion of his Honour, calling him counting house drudge, together with Some other disrespedful Expressions she had us’d, had very much weaned him from giving into those fond Foiblejfes, and diverted his Pursuits more directly into the Channel of Avarice; which is a farther Specimen of vrganda’s Address and Dexterity, who could with as much Ease extinguish as kindle those fiditious Flames. But this respite was given to his amorous Pangs only with a View of redoubling their Force, and if Vrganda lives, they shall as surely return as a Tertian Ague; ’twas but diverting herself by Halves, to see him engag’d only sh
^^^mying Means of enrkhing himself
/
Gallantry. 73
During this Vacation it was, that he employed his Wits to find out some Means of retaining the Letters > and at the same Time, regain the Esteem and Favour of his Unknown; in Order to effect that, he very judiciously excus’d his disobedience, by pretending his Fear of their Miscarriage; and to soften the Rigours of her Resentment, artfully murmur’d at her making such harsh Returns as she did to his Passion.
This perhaps is the only Epistle in the whole Series of his Correspondence that he penn’d in cool Blood, without having his Quill shaken by the feverish Palpitations of an enamour’d Heart; and therefore by thedidion of this only the Reader is to form a Judgement of his Ability and Capacity. The Prolixity on’t is a farther Proof that his Mind was more Sedate, and his Spirits iipt So volatile as Sormerly.
\
r - / -
LETTER xi^iil
’ •
Philander Phillis.
I
Madam,
( T Received your Letter of Thursday this Day, and ‘ really expected a much better Reception than ‘ what I have met with, and So mufl: take upon me * to give you a very large answer to every Particular, I desiring your Patience in the following A rticles.
^ I
w.
74 LO VE upon Tick : Or,
'lam surpriz’d you should refled on my Honour,
< because I did not Send your Letters; you may assure
< yourself, I did not refuse it because I had a sinister
< Intent in it, for if I had sent ’em, and they f should have miscarried, you would never believe
* me, * for when I had met with one Disappointment,
* it would not have been prudent to trull a Thing of « that consequence to miscarry, as one of my
< Letters did that I wrote to you, * that is the Reason
< I did not Send them, * but I will put you in
* a Way how to have them all back. I remember in ^ one of your former Letters you wrote me, of an
< honed: Man that you could trust, but he was in the « Country, if he is come home you may send him
< to me, and I give you my Honour, i’ll deliver
< them all to him; only for a Voucher let him bring
* one Line from you, and then you will be convin
* ced, there is Nothing in this World I will refuse to ‘ a Lady; for if I was to do So now, it would be
< new in me, for as yet I never resuied anything
< to the Fair. In this Article I have been plain f enough j now to other purposes.
< As to my being a counting house - Drudge, f I am indeed a Governor. I thank God I am in
i ’
« very good Circumstances, • but let this rest.
‘ As to my being unbelieving, I afliire you, I northeast
* was foin Regard to you; for I am always too
< easy to believe everything that has a true Co ‘ lour. Give me Leave to tell you, that from the
* first Hour I had the Favour of your Letters, I
‘ havt left off all Manner qf Correfporidence with
f all
I ' '
  75
< all your Sex, and have kept myself only and entirely
< to be your Servant, tho’ I did not know you,
'which, if I would have been inquisitive, I might
< before now, but always depended on your Since ‘ rity. I thought my Time would come of being ‘ happy, and now find my self mistaken, without ‘ committing any Fault, but to the Misfortune of ‘ the Miscarriage of a Letter, which no body could ‘ prevent, • for I alture you, I have gone to the T ree
< every Time myself, and put the Letters there with
< my own Hand, as I will do the same with this,
‘ and now makes the fourth Time I have been in the
< Place, which is a little too far for a Man to go, except
< he lov’d and esteem’d the Lady he took all the ‘ Trouble for, which, you may assure your self, I
< never will do again but only for you, that I adore,
< and will for ever prove true, whether I am Ib hap
* as to come to a Meeting, or not.
‘ I assure you. Madam, if you had appear’d to ‘ me, as you are pleas’d to write, that I never would
* offer anything but Honour and respedl, for I
< scorn to take any Advantage over the Fair. I thank
‘ God, my Character is very well known, that I.
* deal honest with everybody.
‘ I have now further to desire of you, that if our f Correspondence is to last longer, you’d find an ‘ easier Way to convey my Letters to you; for this f Place is too far, and too delaying, and wou’d faitt ‘ have a Place where they might be left without dis ‘ appointment.
Pray,
%
j6  ,
« Pray, Madam, give me Leave to take Notice, that ^ still in this last Letter you prosefs a great deal of « Love; I believe you, but would be better Satis ‘ fy’d if you’d give me other Proofs of it; and is So,
* I protest to God, and upon my Honour, that I
< will regard your Honour more than rny own; and ^ surely, if you love me, as y ou say you do, I ques
* not but you’ll believe me, and put an End to « my long and tedious Expedations, which to me ‘ is the greatest Torment III the World : I beg you « to believe me, and appoint a Meeting where ever
< you please, and to be Speedy, if you will lave the ‘ Man you love from everlasting Despair. I will ‘ craveleave to make use of oneword of your’s, which
* is, that I would not have you take this as a Chimaera,
< for I protest to you, that what I Say to you is true.
< I must beg of you, is you will be So kind as to « give me a Meeting, it would not be at the mas
* because in Honour I am bound not to be « there, and shall endeavour to convince you of the « Refforishlenefs of what 1 Say when I See you,
‘ Now I think I have been tpo large to desire your ‘ Patience, and humbly beg your Pardon, and hope you’ll be so kind as to let me know your lastresolu ‘ tionsfor I protest, if it be against me, I will not stay in London three Months after it, but will go
* where no one shall hear of me, remainiiig whether ‘ alive or dead, ypur everlasting Slave and Loyer, I
< pray let your answer to this resolve ine
‘ there I am to be happy or miserable, arid not to delay « any lonuer my pleasure or missortunes; for if it
‘ should
 . 77
* should turri against me, I never will believe ariy
< body more, and will soon put an End to all my « Pain, by leavihg this World, and go to everlasting ‘ Resh
‘ Before I conclude, I beg Leave to repeat to yoii
< once, that I have Honour, and will return you all
< your Letters, tho’ it will be to my eternal Ruin,
‘ the Loss of any T hing So dear to me; for as they ‘ are in my poiteffion, I never rise nor go to Bed
* but I read them all over, and kiss them one by one >
‘ and give me Leave to tell you, that if you insist ‘ upon having them, and won’t make irie happy in ‘ a Sight of your Perlon, you will have a Life to an< ‘ Swer for, in throwing me into eternal despair. I ‘ vow to you, I write this with my last Strength,
* and am not capable of going any further.
‘ I pray you read this over and over before you ‘ aniwer, and let your Aniwer be speedy, for my
< Life depends on’t. Once more your eternal Slave ‘ to command, and for ever dutiful Lover,
PHILANDER,
He had So little Doubt of this having the deliredi Effect, that he immediately acquainted his Confidanttt with the Contents cf it, and could not avoid expressing his Admiration at his own Adroitness and happy Turn of Wit, in so dexterousty parrying the impending Blow, by forging so plausible an Excuse for not having font the Letters, but was more particularly loud in expatiating on those beautiful Paragraphs,
78 L O VE upon Tick : Or,
graphs, in which he had given Such satisfactory and unexceptionable answers to whatever Reflections she had call on him in any of her former Billets \ and then that terrible resolution of leaving the Kingdom in cafe fly did not immediately relent and prove wondrous kind, was without Doubt an Incentive abundantly sufficient (without having recourse to any other) to awe her into a Compliance, and deter her from making any more of those cruel Experiments of his Love and Obedience, w hich Ihe had hitherto feem’d to take a peculiar pleasure in doing.
It was but realbnable that he Should likewise tyrannise in his Turn, and make use (as She had done heretofore) of thole amorous Links and Cords to bind her to her good Behaviour : And who can wonder, (aster reading Such repeated Declarations with which she had larded her Letters, of an inviolable and unalterable Passion for him) that he should think he had Sufficient Hold of her Heart to enable him to do
it?
He had So far shook off those Trammels of Love, which had hitherto render’d him most obstquious and cringing, as to recover sense and Resolution enough to employ somebody to watch near the Tree at whose Root he had buried his last, with Orders to follow the Person (whoever it was) that should take it away. It was lucky that Vrganda was his Confidant., as well as Tormentor, for that not only afforded her many Opportunities of increasing his Perplexity, but enabled her to frustrate any Scheme
he might form which might prove destructive to her
Diversion,
 . 79
Diversion, as this last would have been if put in Practice, which certainly had been, if Vrganda had not exerted the bell of her Art to diltwade him from it: It was therefore high Time to use some Means to reduce him to his former fnivelling contriteconditionfit might else be reasonably cxpedted he would no longer remain an Object proper for this Scene of Amusement, especially as he already began to groan Under his Burden, and was hardy enough to murmur at the Pains he was oblig’d to take in conveying his Letters to her, and had dar’d to prescribe Ibme other Method of Conveyance.
The Air likewise of Triumph he had affum’d, and the positive Assurance he had entertain’d that ftie would condescend to any Terms rather than his leaving the Kingdom Should deprive her of all Hopes ps an happy Consummation of her Amour, made it neceltary for Phillis to realtume herself, and be very peremptory in enforcing that Proof of his Obedience which Ihe had So often exacted;; there was (as before hintedj very good Reasons to induce Vr * gmda to wish for a Review of her Letters; Ihe theresore very speedily after the Receipt of his last:, wrote to him in the following Terms. Whether Ihe ob ferv’d his Diredlions in reading his tedious Letter over and over again before Ihe answer’d it, and whether that would have been consistent with his Request: of returning a Ipeedy Answer, let the Reader determine.
L E TSO
LOVE upon Tick t Or,
LETTER. XXIV
Phillis to Philander.
t, T Am to the last Degree furpriz’d at your daring « again to write to me without lending my ‘ Letters, when I so earnestly defir’d it s Had your ‘ Fear of their miscarriage been the real Obstacle « have made that your excuse in Answer to « the first Letter I wrote to demand ’em; and then, « as a poor Pretence to smother your Want of Ho
* and Generofityj to remind me of a Servant I ‘ once mentioned : Indeed, Sir if that Person had
<	not been unfortunately hurt by a Fall from hisHoife>
* that he can’t stir abroad, I had sent him to you long ‘ before. I little imagin’d, when I first mention’d
him, I should have Occasion to send him oh stich
< an Errand, but to a quite different Purpose, liich
< as I thought you might have deferv’d; but since
< I am So fatally convinc’d of your Want of Merit; I
< must with inexpressible Sorrow submit to my hard
< F ate, and for ever blame my self for fisdng my Affections
< on one so entirely lost to all that is generous, ‘ just and good, and will, if possible, resolve to forget you, * a Task, I fear, much more than I shall
* easily conquer; the better to effect it, I must and ‘ will leave the Kingdom; but before I go I shall
* have an Opportunity of taking my Letters at the
< Tree, if you place ’em there speedily. You may
‘ perlups
impudt Gallantry. 8 i
< perhaps think your Excuse for riot having ferit
* ’em, both honourable and just; but depend upon’t: ^
‘ I shall never think him a Man of Honour, who so
* much as hesitates at performing a Request lb reasonable,
< and to do it in the Manner I dire(5t t No
‘ thing less than a pundual and Speedy Obedierice will « Set you right in my Esteem; tho’ the Thoughts
< of your not being mine, and only mine, are enough ‘ to strike me into my original Nothing.
‘ Your mentioning going abroad, shows you not /
‘ to have a just Notion of the Obligations the unre ‘ serv’d Tender of my Affections ought to have laid
* you under; you could not elle bear the Apprehen
* lions of enduring a perpetual absence. I, to my ‘ inexpressible uneafiness, can’t; tho’ how can I ‘ prevent it? The Maxims of common Prudence
< Sorbid me to trust that Person who refuses, in so ‘ dishonourable a Manner, to comply with my first ‘ Request. ’tis not my Fear of being difcover’d
* by my Handwriting, that induces nie to insist ‘ thus on a Return of my Letters; No, Sir, I converse with so very few, and those so far removed ‘ from a Possibility of being known to you, that I ‘ have no Apprehensions of that Sort; but as a Point,
‘ in which since my Demand of ’em, my Honour is ‘ interested, I can’t recede from it, ■ and did I really ‘ believe your noncompliance proceeded from the ‘ Fear of their miscarriage, I should curie myself ‘ for raising this Chimaera to distract and torment me,
* and retard our Meeting. Thus, if you are sins
cerely desirous of a personal Conference, you may
G * now
82  , ^
« now command it; if riot, better leave you nolv than when my Passion is, (if it can possibly be)
* more firmly riveted.
‘ If you perlift in your resolution of going A
* you in that Iriftant divest me of au Hopes ' of being happy j but where estr you go, my best ® Wishes attend you. .Adieu.
PHILLIS,
9
Whert he consulted his Confidant on the Contents of this last, ’twould have been pleasant to hear her diffwading him from parting with his Letters, and artfully pumping for Some shallow Reason for not doing it, when that was, at the Same Time, what she So earnestly desired to have done; And on the other Hand, it would be very diverting, to hear him muster up all the Arguments he could invent to warrant his Obedience in that Point, for in he did not dare to venture making any further Trial of his phillis’s good Nature : He found her of a Temper not to be terrify’d by Threats, and must therefore atterhpt to pacify her by Submission,, fond as he was of retaining the Letters, he could not think ’em valuable enough to risque the Loss of those more valuable Presents she had made him hope for; he therefore, mal gre all the Arguments his Confidant could ush to dis fwade him from it, procur’d a large blackbox, in which as in a Coffin, he inclosed those Signals of his expiring Love, and to render the Farce more Solemn, affixed
Seven
t
lmplkit Gallantry.’ 83
Seven Seals to it; and, loaded with this Sable Memorial of his Misfortunes, travell’d to that awful silent Shade, where heretofore his Heart had caper’d, when he there had found Ibme Paper blotted by the fair Hand of his 'Unknown; or when in former happier Days, he there had lodg’d those pathetic Testimonies of his Love and Gratitude. But now, with downcast, contrite Countenance, and slow melancholy Pace, he approaches, and most devoutly turns up those Clods, which till now had been the Skred Repolitory of all that could be dictated by the Softest Love, and to them commits the dear Remains of his expiring Joy, a severe Proof of an unreserv’d obedience!! invoking the Powers propitious to obsequious Lovers, to guard that inestimable Packet from the unhallow’d Touch of Ant or Hog loufe, to drive far from thence the filthy a/o/f, who, blind as the God that dragg’d Philander thither, might profanely disturb those Manes of his Love, and la crilegiousty expose them to the Air, and humane Eyes.
As Soon as he return’d and acquainted his Confidant that he had thus pundually obey’d the Commands of his charming Tyrant, Ihe jocundly rode thither, and soon rak’d up the seven seal’d Box, in which she found he had been exactly puncstual in not embezzle ing one of her Billets, among which stie found this mournful and complaining Istiie of his Brain, which her cruelcommand had extorted from him.
G 1. LET
•
 ,
LETTER. XXV
I
ehilander to P H ILLIS.
■ My Dear Commander
t T T was not Want of Honour, but Fear of JL ‘ miscarriage that I did not obey your com mand at first;; was it any Design in me. That ‘ you may not harbour an ill Opinion of my Honour, I here inclos’d lend you all your Letters I once was ‘ So happy to be M after of, but now to my great Af ‘ flidion, must part with. I always carried them
* next my Heart, and am now quite miserable for the
* Loss of them. I must only tell you, that I now ‘ remain praying God they may come safe to your « Hands; and I must observe to you, that I tore off
< the Superscriptions, that in cafe they should miscarry,
< (which God forbid my Name should not « be Seen on them; which Caution, I hope, will ‘ meet with your Approbation, since I never can ‘ desire anything else than to be pleasing to you, ^ and pundual to your Commands. — As to my « going out of England, it never was defign’d by
* me, but in case I should be So unfortunate as not « to See you; but as you still give me Hopes of your
* Favour, which is the only Thing I wish for, you ‘ need not terrify yourself with any Such Apprehen
* sions, for I promise you I will stay in London till I « find my case desperate, and for ever must lost you, ‘ and then I will not only go out of England, but out
I of the World; for the whole Universe without you
* can
 . 85
< can be of no Use to me, but rather a Plague. And ‘ as to your Fears of my being only your’s, depend,
‘ that as soon as you make me yours, I will continue
< tobefo, and delpise all Womankind for your Sake;
‘ for since your first Writing to me, I have left off ' all Manner of Conversation with your Sex. Your ‘ Ipeedy answer to this will for ever be the Happi ‘ ness of your most humble, and most ardent Lover
* and Slave till Death, and the most dillradled and ‘ the most unfortunate of all Men.
PHILANDER,
P, S, * Pray, Madam, observe, that since Ire ‘ ceived your first Letter, I have not held any Con ‘ verfation with any Lady, and fb will remain till
* your Resolution be known to me, which t hope ‘ will be in my Favour,
His profound Submission and • Obedience now might justly claim Some grateful Return, especially
when his eager Expectation had made him So gene rously impose on himself a total Abstinence from pra stical Gallantry; and that was no romantic or fidti titious Compliment, for in Fafi:, he was so wrapped up in the raviftiing and extatick View's of his approach ingjoy, that all Amusements of that Sort were not only become insipid, but by him deem’d Sacrilege, after he had So Solemnly devoted himself to his unknown goddess. In vain did the hand maids of Keg
5 HUS
86 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
<
fim invite his Acceptance of their venal Favours i they (alas!) could meet with no Returns to all their amorous Blandishments, but Taunts and Frowns, fatal and
4»
unerring Symptoms of chilling cold Indifference.
He now began to be a Stranger to that exulting Heat and juvenile Temerity which had heretofore in fpir’d him with active and insulting Courage, and hurried him on to the Demolition of the lucid Inlets to the workhouses of Darkness;; and unexceptionable prooss of his Love, thus to sacrifice his darling amusements; a meritorious Abstinence, and ought not to want Reward.
But 'Urgmda deaf and regardless of his Merit, still,, new Plagues and Torments, had almost: refolv’d to deny the Receipt of his Packet, * but wisely foreseeing that he must then necessarily discontinue all future Correshondence, alter’d her measures, and spar’d him that Addition to the uneasy and uncertain Situation he was in; but not without resolving to pay it him with sevensold Interest in the Sequel of her Management At present to Sooth his Vanity, and to extort from him as conspicuous Proofs of his Folly as was possible, she sent him this lost, coming and engaging Letter.
p
LET
•
''
impudt Gallantry. 87 LETTER XXVI
Phillis to Philander,
I
i T Have received Nineteen of my Letters, and ‘ tho’ I am positive I wrote more, yet your ^ Honour and Generosity in returning these, convin f ces me the others miscarried. This is Such an In
4 *
‘ fiance of it, as will counter balance all former mi f flakes. Your tearing off the Superscriptions I entirely approve ofi and gives mean Opinion of your? Understanding equal to that of your Honour.
‘ Nothing now remains to give me uneafiness, but ^ beirig disappointed of a Letter at the Tree in
* answer to one I Sent you, which contain’d an of ‘ fer of an Equipage, and other presents, and to f which you never returned any answer; I am Sure ‘ you had the Letter, because I find it among thole
* returned,
‘you mistake, if von think what I there made
* you a Tender of, to be the utrnoft I design for
* you. No, Sir, I am determined to confer on ^ you Obligations of a much higher Nature. I
* shall from henceforth deem you my own, and ‘ forthwith apply myself to a Performance of my ‘ Promises. You shall Soon be the Wonder of the f whole Town, and be by all Mankind pronounc’d
* the Darling of Fortune; but let me conjure you f to be careful in the Choice of a Confidant, for a
Third Perfori will be neceltary. I have bespoke
G 4 ‘ the
f
9
8 8 L O V E upon Tick : Or,
< the Equipage, and have Thoughts of purchasing
* Annuity for you, but am in Doubt whether I « had not best lend you the Money, tho’ how to do '■ it with Safety and Secrecy puzzles me extremely. ‘you mull: contrive a Method, for I am refolv’d not ^ to be sten, '^ till I have convinc’d you by the most ‘ unerring Proofs of the Sincerity of my Passion and
‘ Pretences. In the mean Time, let me have a letter at the Tree, and depend on’t, I shall be indefatigable in the Accomplishment of what I relblve, ^ in order to obviate with all possible Celerity all that
* obftruds our Meeting. Now I am re eftablilhed
* again in my first: Notions of you, ’tis with infinite
^ pleasure I Subscribe my self faithfully and eternally
.
f your’s,
■PHILLIS,
And it had the desired Effect;; who could Silently contain the Joy that must necessarily result from filch a Profusion of Wealth and Love? What Head but would be turn’d at being fb unexpectedly exalted from the Condition of an humble Trader, into a gilded Chariot, and the Arms of a rich and beautiful Lady? He, for his Part, was not capable of concealing thesg his Sanguine Expectations from the least Part of his acc|uaintance, but published to the whole World his approaching Grandeur, without concealing the Means by which he was to attain it. Recent in the Memory of all stis Acquaintance is his Purchace of a gay Suit, with lac’d Linen, made by
the
 . 89
the Hand of his Confidant, in which to make his first Appearance, in Order to eftablilh in the Mind
of his fair Charmer the advantageous Ideas she had entertain’d of his lovely Superficies.
How to effect fiich an Interriew was what perpetually engag’d his Invention, which at last furnish’d him with a Scheme for that Purpose, which shall be communicated to the Reader instantly in his own Words; biit still his Passion was not lb vehement as to make him forget that it was by no Means an impertinent or vain Care to find out a Method for the' Conveyance of the Money his Vnknown had thus given him a Letter of Credit for. How wonderfully comic must it have been to hear him grayely consulting his Confidant, or any other who knew the Foundation of his Inquiry, how a large um could be Safely convey’d from an unknown Hand. He was indefatigable in finding out Methods for that purpose.
Whafsbredin the Bone, will (says te Proverb) northeast ver out o’ thb Flefiy; and Cupid, powerful as he is acknowledg’d to be, would Scarce have been able, tho’ he should employ his whole Quiver for that Purpose, to have diverted Philander from an eager and unwearied Pursuit of Money, the native Drift of his Inclinations.
aster he had maturely confider’d, and Set himself right in that Particular, as well as the other, he had recourse to that inexhaustible Fund of Elegance, which the Reader must observe to be So plentifully diffus’d throughout all his Epistolary Performances, and which furnished him with the Sollowing.
LE .D
90 LO VE upon Tick : Qr,
LETTER XXVIL
f
s
Philander to Phillis
I
4
Dear Madam,
C T Received your 'agreeable Letter this Day, and
« give you Thanks for returning my Honour
< to me. I can assure you I never did forfeit it, and p it shall always be kept to my last Hour.
* Now, Madam, give me Leave to tell you, that ‘ from the first Hour that I sent you your Letters, ‘ till the Receipt of yourss today, I have been quite * distracted, but Thanks to God and your good felfi
< I am somewhat better, finding that I shall continue ' in your Favour; I assure you, it shall ever be my ‘ Ambition to deserve it, • you may depend, I will ' call my self as you say, only yourss, and Nothing € but Death shall remove me from that Thought.
< I observe the great Offers you are pleased to make f me, they are Favours I don’t know how to artfwer « to, but since they are strictly your Command, I f must Submit, and lb will put you in a Way how to f Send the Money, which is thus, a little at a Time,
‘ in Banknotes, directed as heretofore, and it will
%
‘ come life to my Hands. But, dear Madam, believe
< me, I Shall never be easy but in a Meeting; for f isyou defer it much longer, it may cost me my « Life. I hope the Love you bear to me will engage « you to find a speedy Cure, which rnuft be a Meet
lmplkit G ALLANTRY 9i
I
‘ ing, and Nothing elfe. — Now, give me Leave
< to tell you, I have found a very good Way for our ‘ Meeting, that as I am a very great Dealer in Jewels,
‘ any Lady may send for me on Pretence of buying ‘ or Selling Diamonds. That Method y ou may take,
‘ and be no way suspeded, • then we might confer
* about all our Affairs, which I hope will be Ibon.
* I conclude, calling my self the happiest Man alive,
‘ being lov’d by a Lady to whom I shall always be ‘ a most humble, and most obedient Slave and Lover,
PHILANDER,
\
P, S, ^ 1 beg you’d find an easier Place for the ‘ leaving of Letters, because I always go my self' ' that in the Night, for Caution Sake; for I ‘ will not trust anybody with a Secret of this Moment;
< but your Commands shall always be obeyed ‘ by your most humble Servant.
His grateful Condescension to accept the proffer’d Bounty, made it necessary for Vrganda to assume another Shape, different from that in which she appear’d by her last Letter; in Order to which, his Pofticript afforded ample Occasion for Ibme decent Resentment: To hear the Sluggish Afs thus groari under his Burden, Surely might justify her in goading him forward, and that could not be more effectually done, than by keeping afoot his Expectations of a Deluge of Money.
The
92 LO VE upon Tick : Or,
%
The kind, cunning, angry, raving, and complaining phillisi has, in all these Characters, in the most lively Manner represented the intricate .metmdersithe uncer tainfluduations of Humour inseparable from the capricious, loving, or beloved Fair; and Mankind will doubtless gratefully acknowledge their Obligations to the good natur’d Vrganda^ for thus pointing out the Shallows, Whirlpools, Rocks, and quicksands, that threaten every Adventurer in what ever Course be steers to the Haven of Love : these Beacons of herss will be perpetual Recorders of her Goodness; who, out of an abundant Compassion to the hitherto deluded d^prs of the Creation, could so generoulty expose her sex’s artful Wiles, and profound diffimula tion, by giving Such flagrant prooss of their Capacity in those Arts, and thus showing, that they can, without Love, be kind, without Anger, be cruel. The rebuked, discarded Lover shall henceforwards, in these Sheets, find a cordial Balm to east an aching Heart, sndhxefstheyind Vrganda, when e’er the restive Fair altumes her haughty and capricious Aires, no more regarded shall Ihe be than tedits; when discover’d to be fiditious, * and the heroic Lover shall as soon, like Don Omxotte^ fi^ht a Windmill, • or with Philander, take a Nodurnal Ramble to Vxbridgey as servilely cringe and Sawn to regain their Favour.
But not to divert the Reader any longer frorn prosecuting the Detail of Philanders Reyolutions, we must return to the humble, Submiffive, and obedient
i % ’ '. *. •
Wretch, who is thus a Sacrifice tp the inftru^ion
I * »
of his sex) and meets with Usage not unlike that of
Dogs,
imfudt Gallantry. 93
Dogs, or other innocent and indffenfive Animals, whoifi the College barbarousiy open, mangle and dif sed, not to punish those contemptible Creatures, but for many well known and salubrious Purposes. Just lo is poor Philander open’d and expos’d, only by Way of Mirror; where the rest of Mankind may see, and by that Means avoid the hatefust delpicable State of cringing, whining, and deluded Lovers.
His full blown Hopes left him no Room to doubt an immediate Postestion of his ador’d Phillis, as well as an immense Accumulation of Wealth. His adroit and well form’d Scheme of appearing to her in the Shape of a Jewellery was unexceptionably feasible, and besides the J oy it must afford her in having so lair a Prolpedt of being soon happy in an Interview, could not but give her a very advantageous Idea of his Wit and Parts. In these, and Such like pleasing Reflections, was Philander wrapped, when his Servant brought him the following,
I I- -- — -- -- ■ ■.... - - —. ■■■. — -- - --
LETTER XXVIII
P H I L L I S P HI L A N D E R.
C T Have received your dear Letter, and I hope I ‘ I have not made you any Compliments that ‘ traascends your Merit, but will depend on your ‘ honour’s being equal to your proseflions, and my “........... Wishes;
94 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
‘ Wishes; tho’ I must tell you, I have some Cause « complain, but will flatter my self ’twas without ‘ any ill Intentions, and will not call your Honesty * Question, tho’ I mufl: your Manners. You ‘ ought to have returned my Letter, by putting it « in the Box with your own; not that I imagine you ‘ had any ill Design in not doing it; but it would ‘ infinitely add to my present prosped of happiness, « uo find she Man I adore perfectly well-bred, and
'expert in every pmbo of good Manners. and
‘ then your Postscript has given me almost as much ‘ Torment as all your fine Expressions did pleasure j « that you should grudge the Pains of conveying a ' Letter, who are to be So amply rewarded; that ‘ you should think no better Return due to my Ib ‘ generously lacrificing my person and Fortune, ‘ gives me unspeakable Uneasiness: I remember you ‘ once hinted So much before, which I then over ‘ look’d, because I Had not at that Time given you < Such large Asturances of my unalterable Love, and ‘ resolution of being only yours; know, that what ‘ I am preparing for you, merits a Tribute of more ‘ Years than you have Spent Minutes in carrying Let ‘ ters to the Tree. I shall better confider the Expedi ‘ ent of Sending for you as ajeweller, when I am a lit ‘ tie more compos’d, for the Thoughts of my being ‘ troublesome to you, has almost distracted me; there ‘ fore, if you have any Love, Honour, or Grati ‘ tude. Set me right in that Particular, and Sooth my ‘ tortur’d Soul with proseflions (at least of a grate
^ and sincere Return to my Passion. I have been
in
 . 95
« in a perpetual Hurry in making Preparations for oiir
* intended Happiness, and for that Purpose have fur
* a House in St. james’s, which I have hired
* for a convenient rendex/vous, Pray let me have a ‘ Letter Ibon, for I shall else die with the Apprehen ‘ lions of my being providing for a pleasure I shall ‘ never enjoy. I am, my dear dear Charmer, eternally ‘ and unalterably your faithful and constant Adorer,
»
PHILLIS.
s. —
damn’d, over hafty, and ill tim’d Pofticript! What curled Star could suggest such an unsealbnable Complaint? At such a Crijis to let slip such an unguarded Expression, was an Error not to be forgiven; when Phillis, now no longer diffident or cruel, had made such Progress in her Preparation for the Consummation of her Joy; when the Situation of Affairs would render unnecessary any future J ourney s to the Tree; at Su ch a Time to have broached anything which shew’dthe least Unaptness in the Execution of her Commands, was what afforded him most bitter and poignant refle<stions.
Far, far beyond that fatal Place, would he now most willingly have gone to have his Letter again in his poiteffion, or to raze out of her Memory that harlli and hateful Part of it.
T rue it is, Vrganda was under a Necessity of picking Some little Quarrel, in Order to give Some Colour to her not Sending the Money, pursuant to his Di
redlions,
.
96 Lo VE upori Tick : Or,
redions, but (without that poftscript) had been at a loss lo genteely and naturally to express a seign’d resentment. His Omission of sending back her Letter with his own, was easily retriev’d j he did not at all hesitate in obeying her Command in that Particular; he was too well acquainted with the Danger of Showing the least Sign of disobedience, and was become So thoroughly her Slave, and So unreservedly attach’d to her, that he would Scarce have refused the Burial of himself along with his Letters, had ftieenjoyn’d it.
’twas not long after the Receipt of his last, that he waited on his Confidant to acquaint her that he was just then arrived from the Tree, where he had deposited the two last Letters he had received from his Phillis, enclosed in one of his own, which he boldly alterted, contained as much fine, beautiful and moving Elegance, as could be dictated by the passionate and aching Heart of a despairing, repenting, and complaining Lover, This excited her Curiosity, and made her once more resolve to visit that Common sewer of Folly and Buffoonery, which ffie did, and found her own two Letters, together with that of his which he had So loudly celebrated, and which here follows, that (added to his own) he may receive the reader’s applause of his Performance.
/
LET
%
Gallantry. 97
LETTER. XXIX
Philander ro Phillis.
Pear Madam.,
4 T Have received your most agreeable Letter; in ‘ answer to which I can only tell you, my ‘ Dear, that I am now in the greatest Pain that can ‘ be express’d, since I find there is So great a Delay ‘ in our Meeting, which I beg of you, for god’s ‘ Sake, to defer no longer, but make me happy, since < every Moment is an Age, and will diftrad: me. ‘ Give me leave to tell you, I don’t grudge to car ‘ ry your Letters, for in your pleasure consists my ‘ happiness, and would with pleasure go to the ‘ world’s End to Serve and obey you, since I am So ‘ inspir’d with your charming Expressions, that I ‘ am all Day and Night charm’d wdththe Thoughts ‘ of your bhfled Name : I beg you to believe me, ‘ and deliver me from this Torment.
*■ enclos’d, I Send you back your two Letters, as I ‘ did the former, fince’tis your pleasure it stiould be ‘ So; for I will for ever study, my Dear, how to ‘ meet with your Approbation; and So remain pray ‘ ing for your Welfare, and continue your Adorer, ‘ and eternally your Servant, • and give me leave to ‘ style myself, yoiir’s only alive or dead, and no ‘ body’s else butyour’s, and wnite myself your ex ‘ peding Slave,.
P HILANDER,
%
H He.
08 L O VE upon Tick; Or,
He by this Time appear’d Ib contemptible. So easy to be impos’d on, and so ready to Swallow the plainest and most: palpable absurdities, that She who had hitherto perlecuted him, now, like a true sportswoman, began to despise a Diversion which was attended with so little Labour and Difficulty; tho’, at the Same Time, ffie ought injustice to have confider’d, that he was a Tool of her own composing, and whatever Decline appear’d in his Intelleds, was entirely owing to the course ffie had led him. However, ffie began now to wiffi for Some Relpite, and theresore resolv’d, at the lame Time fiie Sulpended the Prosecution of her Amulemenr, to Set this Affair on Such a Foot as might enable her to resume it, when an Interval of Time might restore her Appetite to Coxcomb hunting, and render it more novel and entertaining.
Her having all her own Letters again in her Possess fion, made it easy for her to have recourse to anycir
cumstance that had been mention’d in ’em, and Philliss
** %
great Affluence of Wealth, by a Sortunate dilposal of her a4i[jijjippi, luckily occurr’d, • from thence it was not difficult to form a plausible Pretence for leaving the Kingdomneither could it be suppos’d di(agreeable to him, that ffie ffiould ad with all the prudent Care and Concern for the Preservation of that Wealth which was destin’d for his use; ’twas properly an Affair of his own fiae was about to Solicite, when fiie
t
went to France to Settle her Affairs there; and how could his Vanity Suggest less than that ’twas her exuberant and unprefidented Passion for him, which only

lmplkit Gallantry. 99
ly could induce her to attempt such a Voyage, that Ihe might be the better able to perform those dazzling Promises, and load him with thole Heaps of Wealth Ihe had made him hope for.
But his doing Injustice to the Merit of vrganda’s Invention thus to fore stall the Reader, by recount ting the Concatenation of Inducements She had to fliist the Scene of her Correspondence. these and many more, as well as Sar better reasons She had, for sending him the following Letter, by the Same Method as the former.
i'
LETTER XXX
Phillis to philanoeri
m
%
Q T Have taken up my two Letters, with yoursh ‘ and had firmly determin’d to meet you next « Week, but that unlucky fatcj which has hitherto ‘ prevented my long expeded bliss, has now thrown ‘ a Bar in my Way more fatal than all the rest : I ‘ am under an abfblute Necessity of going to Holland, ‘ Sori Yesterday received a Letter, that my Brother ‘ and Sister are coming from Paris, and expect to < meet me there to Settle our Accounts. I am under ^ So great Obligations to him, for the prodigious Improvements he has made of my Fortune, that I
can’t refuie to meet him, tho’ his Death to me to
H 1 * think
100 LO VE upon Tick: Or,
‘ think of going without Seeing you : But when I re ‘ fled on the repeated aiturances you have given me of
‘ eternal Love and Constancy, I am more at ease, and
‘ stiall, with all imaginable Speed and Cheerfulness
‘ go and finish my Affairs; but beaffur’dj I have
‘ left Such a Spy on all your Adiions, that I stiall
be convinc’d besore my Return, whether your
t proseflions of Constancy are real, or not; any Conversation
you have in my absence with any of my
‘ Sex, will be infallibly communicated to me; but
‘ if I am confirmed, by your good Behaviour, in my
‘ good Opinion, you shall, at my Return, be the
‘ happiest Man breathing, if you can be made So by < an abfblute Possession of Riches and Grandeur, and
‘ the entire Affections of your faithful
#
FHILLIS.
This produced a Scene entirely new, and different, from the rest; nor was it a whit less entertaining, • he rightly imagin’d, that he stiould not now Ib often as formerly be bless’d with those Specimens of the Fair one’s Love, Wit, and Gallantry, the Conveyance of Letters from Abroad being infinitely more slow and uncertain, and by that Means losing the pleasure of exposing to his Confidant, and others, those amorous Billets, in which Such advantageous Mention was made of his dear sels, apprehended he might meet with many Mortifications to his Vanity, srom the ill natur’d Suggestions of some cf his Intimates,
 . loi
mates, who might pretend to believe, that he had not Charms enough to maintain his new Conquest;; that it was owing to a Decay of Inclination, that phi//is had made this plausible Excuse to discontinue her Correspondence.
To obviate therefore any Difficulty of this Sort, he roundly publifli’d to his Confidant, and to all the rest whom he had admitted to any Share of his Intimacy, that his Fair one had at last surrender’d, and
that the house ffie had provided for him was now the Scene of their amorous Rencounters, * that he there in her Arms did ev^ry Night forget all thole anxious Cares and provident Inquietudes inseparable frcm the Man of business;; as the utmost Summit of his Ambition was terminated in the Enjoyment of her, he had now no other Care or Concern, but to find out every Day new and diverting Amusements, in Order to while away the Remainder of an indolent lise, and give a Reliffi to that State of Tranquillity and pleasure in which he was So happily situated.
Vrganda had given him and herself a Relpite for three Months, in which Time, his Invention had form’d thrice three thousand Lies, and during which Time, he would osten with Solemn Gravity recount Such amorous Circumstances, as he imagin’d Would attend an unreserv’d Intimacy with his unknown, enamour’d, trivial Incidents, and Such as could not besu})pos’d to enter into the Thoughts of anyone who was not perpetually ruminating (as he was) on his Sanstftick and expected Felicity.
»>
H 5 In
102 LO VE upon Tick: Or,
4
I
In this Manner did he long continue to entertain and divert the Sneering Tribe of his Acquaintance, who, inform’d by Vrganda of the progress of his Intrigue, could not but heartily delpise him for Such an accomplish’d Series of Lying and Vanity.
At last, Vrganda fortunately Sound an Expedient for Conveyance of a Letter by the public Post from Hollands which came to his Hands, and was con ceived in these Tenns.
... — ' " ■ -..
LETTER XXXI
%
9
Phillis ro Philander.
C 7 H E N I reflect upori the many weary Jour « the perpetual Perplexities of Mind you ' have been in, and your many proseflions of eternal ‘ Love and Friendihip, I blush at my Ingratitude in ‘ leaving the Kingdom without giving you entire f Ppsteflion of my person and Fortune: Necessity then oblig’d me to come here, and if I have been ‘ guilty of a Crime, (as my Conscience Severely inr * forms me I have) my Sufferings for it are very ‘ great; for flnce my Arrival here, I have not enr f joy’d one day’s Health. I have had a violent Fever for many Days, which has left such a Weak? f nefs as has hitherto render’d me incapable of wri f ting, and I am now barely able to hold my Pen, f to assure you, shat I still poffess the Same Sond lof
I ving
lmplkit Gallantry. 103
‘ ving Soul. In the Midst of my illness I had that " Regard for you, that I entrusted a present of the ^ richest of my Jewels with a young Lady, my Relation, who, I am altur’d, in case I had died, had Ho ‘ nour enough to have deliver’d to you. My Brother met me here, and I have remitted upwards of ‘ Forty thousand Pounds to England, which I hope ‘ is in Safe Hands: I Should have took it kind, when
* I first mentioned going to Holland. is you had given ‘ me Directions for remitting it to yourself; but as ' you did not, I was afraid of being troublesome
‘ My Sister had met me here, but proving with
* Child, my Brother would not venture to bring ‘ her. You can’t imagine how I am teaz’d by him ‘ to go to Paris, but you may easily gucss my Inclination.
< I have now Nothing elle at Heart, but to
< excuse myself to him as well as I can, and fly to ‘ the Arms of the Man I adore. I Sorbear making ‘ any further proseflions, but a little Time will
* convince you, that I am Generous, Just, and
^ Good, and in every respeft worthy of the char
«
‘ Philander
9
i
PHILLIS.
\
He was thoroughly sensible, tlaat the exposing. this would falsify the Romantic Stories his vain Imagination had eqiiipt him with, and with which he had So long diverted his Acquaintance; the greatest Favour now that his Confidant, or any other had to
boast of, was the Sight of Phillips Name at the Both
4 tom j
104 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
tom; Since he was admitted to so intimate a Familiarity, as he pretended, stwas easy to insinuate, that Letters from a Mistress in that Situation might treat of Subjects improper to be communicated. His i magination was perpetually upon the Rack for the Invention of what he thought fine and fond Express fions, with which he would confidently affirm his Billets abounded, and a Choir of Paper would Scarce have contain’d the Quotations he made from this last i.etter; nor was he at all less cautious of affirming, in the most solemn Manner, Fasts, as monstrous, as falle; for no Circumstance occur’d to him in Conversation or Reading, that had any Relation to Love or Gallantry, which he would not immediately as sume, and as confidently recount as a real Incident in the prosecution of his Amour, insomuch that by Persons unacquainted with his notorious Propensity to Lying and Vanity, he had been pronounced the darling Endymion of the Fair, the most complete Adonis of his Sex; tho’ the small Probability his out fide afforded of his being So Superlatively admir’d, did not a little contribute to raiie a Distrust of what he was without Cease affirming.
’twould nauseate the Reader to relate half the Circumstances which his Imagination diftatedas Attendants on the happy Possession of his Phillh; let it suffice to be informed, that he took more Pains to
be ridiculous,, than his Confidant did to make him fp,
r
t
In
lmplkit Gallantry. 105
In this Manner did he entertain his Acquaintance, and expose himself, till he had exhausted his whole Fund of Invention, and had not left himself onelye he had not told before. So was under aneceffity of repeating or being Iilent; it was therefore judg’d seasonable now to amuse him with Something new and Surprising; and to effect this, Vrganda, who spar’d no Pains for the Decoration of her Farce, found a Means of conveying to him a Letter, dated from Paris, and in such a Manner as could admit of no Distrust of the Reality of its coming from thence.
How divided was his Heart between Love and Fear, when he received a Letter wrote by that Hand from Paris! His conscious Guilt at first made him
surmise, that his Boasts of Favoui's unreceived had reach’d her Ears, and then what was to be expected. Something dreadful must enfiie. But besore his Fright had proceeded So Sar as to be attended with any stinking consequences, to his inexpressible comsort, his Eyes were bless’d with the Sollowing Sweet, tender, and engaging Lines.
I
LETTER XXXII
Phillis to Philander.
«
<
C T F you give any Credit to a person entirely
‘ captivated by your Character and personal
I Charms, I need not lay much to convince you,
< with
106 L O VE upon Tick \ Or,
‘ with what Reluftaiice I let out for this Place; but
< as there is a great deal in Gratitude due to my
* Brother, besides the Ties of Friendihip and Affi ‘ nity, I could not make so public a Declaration
* of a fix’d Alfeftion elsewhere, as peremptorily to
* refuse, after so many repeated Importunities from
^ ‘ him, and continual Entreaties by Letter from my
* Sister. My Sister is very ill, a melancholy Com'
'for one like mft overwhelm’d with Love ‘ and Grief. Could you but feel my present Unea ‘ finess of Mind, I Should become as much the Object of your Pity, as you have made me believe I
* have been of your Love and Adoration; for, with ‘ Shame I own, I have no real pleasure but in reading « those few charming Letters I have of your’s, which C are my constant Companions, and I omit no Op.
* portunity of being alone to perule them. With ‘ what Transports, with what eagerness I repeat the
* pleasure I and hug my sels even to Rapture at each f Syllable that is kind. Oh! that I were Sure of ‘ kindling rhe Same Warmth in the Breast of my
< philander, I Should then be happy indeed. But « why should I difiruft what he has So Sreqiiently affirmed, and taken So much Pains to convince me « of? I heartily repent my giving you the Trouble of carrying every Letter fb many Miles, since « was So wretchedly unfortunate as to come away? without giving you polseffion of my person and ‘ Fortune: But a little Time will convince you,
S hov/ willing I am to recompense all your Fatigue, f There is Nothing here in Paris that can contribute
to
*. *
  107
* to the Comfort or Delicacy of Life, but I will purs chase for you at any Pains or Expense; yet, not ‘ withstanding all my Care and Application, I may
< omit something. I should take it inexpressibly f kind, if you’d send me a Catalogue of those Things
* which are mofl: peculiarly adapted to your Taste;;
* refuse to demand Something of me, though
< ever So trifling; that will alture me of the Reality t of your proseflions, and transport me beyond my ‘ present Imaginations of approaching bliss : For I ‘ Swear by all my mihappy Hours past, and all our ' Joys to come, you are what I adore more than
* Life or Fortune : This you’ll Soon be convinced off ^ for I am contriving Something for you which will ‘ make you the world’s Wonder, and all Mankind ‘ unanimously proclaim you the Darling of Fortune,
< and the Favourite of your languishing
0
PHIL LIS.
0
P. S. ' inclose a Letter for Phillis, directed for
< jojlah Clifting, at Gregoirs coffeehouse, Paris,
‘ and it will come sase to my Hands.
To omit the least Circumstance attendant on this wild goose chase, especially in which are any Indications of the matchless Contrivance of the Female
S
direftress of it, would be inconflftent with the nice
V
Veracity and exact Regard to Truth, So osten promised : Therefore the quaint Method Ihe pitch’d on to Sonvey a Letter in lo artful a Manner, as to be taken
tcw
io LOVE Upon Tick : Or,
for one actually wrote from Paris, must not be pass’d over in Silence. ’twas inclos’d in a Letter feign’d to be writ by a Servant, (and by the Style and Spelling appear’d to be so) who was sent by Phillis to England for Recovery of Health, and entrusted with that Letter, and who was detained by sickness on the Road, and by that Means unable to deliver it with her own Hand, as ftie was directed, but Sent it to him a long while after the feign’d Date of it, which perplex’d him wondersully i for Some lew Days besore he received that Letter, another was contriv’d to reach him from Holland. How well this last Part of the Farce was concerted, will appear by perusing this which came from Holland, and was deliver’d before he received that from Paris.
%
• «
/
LETTER XXXIIL
Phillis so Philander.
I
g "T Must own, it’s surprising and ftiocking, that J[ that you did not answer my Letter from < Paris, wherein I gave you particular Directions to a Friend, w hom I am Sure would have taken ‘ Care of it. If I have, by leaving the Kingdom, * lost your Affections, I shall soon give you an Op ‘ portunity to tell me foi willi could account for
f not having heard from you, by concluding my Let
‘ ter
«
impudt gallantitr. 109
ter miscarried: But alas! I Sent it by a Servant, who, ‘ I am well altur’d, is under too many Obligations to ‘ mci and has too much Fidelity not to be exactly ‘ punctual in her Obedience to my Commands. < But after Such a Series of unlucky Accidents, why ‘ may I not imagine that the Fates have thrown in ‘ one more to complete my misery? The Scene of ‘ Affliftionand Vexation I have met with, would ‘ draw Tears of Pity and commiseration from the ‘ hardest Heart. I think I mention’d something of
* my sifter’s illness, and being with Child, and the ‘ Confidence I had repos’d in my brothcr in law : ‘ I had not been a Month in Paris w ith her before ' Ihe miscarried and died. This Misfortune was ‘ Grief Sufficient to perplex me, with the Addition ‘ of my brother’s base usage, who has invested in ‘ Dutch Eajl india Stock in his own Name, the *■ Money he rais’d by Sale of my mijjijjlppi, and ‘ been Villain enough to put me to prove my Right. ‘the Pains and Trouble I have been at to esteft ‘ that, has, through mere Vexation, very much ‘ impair’d my Health; but I have at last got the ‘ better of him, and recover’d my ov/n Time enough
to purchase South-sea at Two Hundred and Fifty. *■ How often have I lamented the false Step I made, ‘ in not meeting you besore I lest England? A Recommendation from you to your house in Hollandy ^ would have sav’d me a vast deal of Trouble. This ‘ convinces me, that the Astliftions which are in ‘ (lifted on us merely by the dispensations of Pro
* are not half So vexatious as those which
V. ■. _
-... ^4. ...» •
happen
no L O VE upon Tick : Or,
happen from the Villainies of Mankind, and our ‘ own Inadvertency. What led me into this fatal ' Mistake, was my being superlatively felicitous to ‘ convince you of the Sincerity of my Affections;;
hurried me on to furnish a house, and belpeak ‘ ing an Equipage, and doing Several other ridiculous ' Things, which I now repent of andwifhlhad ' at first thrown myself into your Arms, and true" stedto your Honour, that would have saved me much Trouble and Vexation. I wait here now on ‘ ly to exchange releases with my Brother; when < that is done, if my Health permits me, I immediately Set Sail for that happy Place where my Char ‘ mer lives. Tho’ I was not bless’d with a Letter, ‘ I will still flatter myself he is sincere and good, and ‘ Nothing Shall be wanting on my Part to oblige ‘ him, is the greatest Curiosities the Kingdom of ‘ France can afford will do it, I Shall bring them with ‘ me, as well as the entire Affections of his faithful
FHILLIS.
Horribly irk Ibme was the Restraint he was under not to boast of the mountainous Expectations which these two last Letters had given him; he was perpetually cursing rhe false Step he had taken, in affirming (as he had so often and Solemnly done) his Possession of the lovely Phillis; that had lain him under an ob li Ration to be filent, and even to burst himself with
D
containing the Contents of the last. A mean and
o
Shallow Soul that can’t relish any Joy without divulging
impudt Gallantry. iti
gingit; an impertinent Itch of Tatling and Bragging, which can’t fail to render despicably ridiculous the Fool affected with it. The discreet and meritorious Lover justly recommends himself to the Fair, (whenever they condescend to oblige him by kind Compliances) by a prosound Silence, and an artful affected Indifference, a perpetual Caution of making all Mankind blind to his Happiness; far from his
Thoughts is Such a mean and ungenerous Ambition as philander’s, who, unworthy of the least of Favours, and incapable of any excuse, could lb basely
sacrifice the suppos’d Reputation of his Mistress to the Gratification of his absurd Vanity.
In this Situation were his Affairs, he repeating his Declarations that his, Intrigue was at last happily consummated, and at the Same time broiling with the Impatience of concealing his Expectations of apprcach ing Joys and Wealth, whenvrganda, urg’d by the Importunities of Ibme, who were not So tir’d with this Farce as She was, prepar’d to bring the Scene once more nearer home, and form’d S chemes for exposing her besotted Dupe in a more emphatick Manner (if possible) than She had hitherto done.
How well file succeeded, the Sequel will best discover, * but to effect her Purpose, stie resolv’d not to deprive him of the pleasing and extatick Hopes he had entertain’d, but to encourage and improve the lovely Delusion.
phi//is must now be suppos’d no longer able to Sub
fist in Baniftiment from that Land where her ador’d
philander
112 LO VE upon Tick : Or,
philander resides, atidimpatient to give hirn thofemarks of her Esteem and Passion which ffie had so often promised, and which, by cross unexpected Accidents had been so often poftpon’d, hath cross’d the Main, and
immediately aster her Arrival, unable to defer taking all neceltary Steps for effecting the long determin’d Interview, in the Hurry and Impatience of her past fion writes the following Billet.
\
________ • f - L— — ■ ■. _ _ ^ — —
¥
* #
LETTER XXXIV
Phillis to Philander.
C A F T E R the many Struggles and difficul i\ ‘ ties I have encounter’d, I am, at last, safe ‘ arrived in England, and have now Nothing to give ‘ me any Pain, but the Thought of not being bless’d « in So long a Time with one Line from my dear ' Philander. I own I never gave you an Opportunity but once to Paris : Your not writing then has ‘ given me inexpressible uneasiness;; I ' imagine you are weary of the many cross Accidents ' that have happen’d to obstruct our Meeting, or that
* you look upon the whole Affair to be a meerdelu
* fion; and at other Times imagine, you are more agreeably engag’d. That Thought, Oh, that it
« never could enter into my fond Heart! it is enough, ' indeed, it is enough to strike me into my original
* Nothing; but as I have always depended on your
Sin
 . 115
« Sincerity. I expect you will now be truly sincere
‘ and let me know if you still really are (what you
< have so often prosess’d) entirely mine, and ready
< to accept my Love, and the other Trifles I have
* provided for you. I am almost: distracted at the ‘ bare Apprehensions of your forgetting me. Pray ‘ let me have a Letter at the Tree, • let me know if
< you’u meet me, and depend on’t. Nothing but ‘ Death shall prevent my giving you an immediate ‘ Meeting; where I shall come bare fac’d, .with
* open Arms to receive you, and give you such Rea ‘ Ions for having So long deferr’d that Happiness, as
* shall convince you, that I am every Tiling you can ‘ expect or wilh for, as well as,
. Tour confiant aidorer,
\
PHILLIS.
P. S. ‘ Pray let me have a Letter, though it
* be to tell me, my long absence has Lost you for ‘ ever : But don’t be too rash in your censures, L
< will at first Sight remove ’em all.
O
t
Much to the Surprise and Disappointment of Vrganda) no Aniwer was to be Sound at the Tree;
’twas theresore natural to imagine, that he had not quite Folly enough to be led thro’ Such a Series of romantic chimera’s, and monstrous Improbabilities, with cmt discovering at last, all to be Sham and Grimace; and that the Jell was run quite out of Breath, • and
I had
114  ,
had it really been soit must be confess’d, he had contributed as much to her Diversion, as could in Reafbn be expected from a single Fooland if her Appetite was not yet cloy’d, ’twas but just and reasonable, that he who had been led So tedious a course, Should now be permitted to enjoy Ibme Respite, and She might, among the numerous Herd of Coxcombs, easily single out another who might afford her abundant Opportunities of signalising her Dexterity and Invention.
Quite another Influence on her had this Seeming surcease of his Folly; he now seem’d an Object inore worthy to employ her Skill, and appearing to be of greater consequence, rnade a Second Conquest more valuable, and the pursuit appear’d more worthy, in Proportion to the Seeming Difficulty that attended it. To imitate therefore a real Disappointment, and an anxious Care to prevent the Occasion of it, ihe Sent by an express Messenger the following Mixture of Love, Rage, Hope, and Despair.
0
A
L E TI

#» • * -
 . tiy LETTER. XXXV
I
\
Phillis to Philander.
t
C A Mong the many unhappy Accidents that L \ ‘ have occurr’d since my first addreltes ‘ to you, none have been so fatal as this last - ‘ has cost me much Rage, and must end in despair. ‘ What! have I lost you? Lost all that is dear to ‘ me 1 What have I done to provoke the Fates thus ‘ to torment me? Or did Some unlucky Wretch, ‘ some Cow herd, Some base Miscreant that was C loytering there, take the Letter away? For I found ‘ none there. I am in the utmost Confusion to find ‘ out which it is. Let me beg you to write once ‘ more, to let me know what I am to expect, and ‘ i’ll take it up in a Day or two. If I am to lose ‘ you, Heaven only knows how far Such a Misfor ‘ tune will hurry me. IS not, I am still
Tour Faithful
FHILLIS.
P. ‘ It a little moderates my Rage, when I
* confider this Disappointment may proceed from
* your not being in Town; is fbi may still hope ‘ to be the happiest Woman breathing. This I have
* ventur’d to Send by a Porter, the last I directed as ‘ usual.
I ^ In
ii LO E Upon T ict'. Ory
In vain was all this Pain and Caution, he, harm less, loving, and good natur’d, never diftrusted the Sincerity of his unknown Adorer, but was more and more confirmed in the Belief of it.
How despicably mean and contemptible does that person appear, who Suffers thus his reason to be acrea tiire to cipinionatry and self conceit; notwithfland
irig that Coup d.eclat of Vrgandais, in taking such a dextrous Method of re eftablifhing Philander in his former false and glittering Expectations;; it can’t be suppos’d to have that Effect, had not the most flagrant Spirit of Self approbation been predominant in our Herds Heart. It did not appear at all strange or incredulous, that once in an Age, his Person and Accomplishments might sofar diffuse their Influence, as to precipitate Some enamour’d da moifelle into amorous Extravagancies; but on the contrary, it had long been Matter of much Surprise to him, that till this Affair, the Female World should be so indolent in Soliciting his Intimacy, and that he had not till now met with one inspir’d with Love and resolution to lay Siege to his person and Affections.
’tis doubtful, whether the Disappointment Vrganda met with in not meeting with an Answer to her last, proceeded from his Diffidence of the Reality of the Affair, or any other Accident; the small Regard that is to be had to what he affirms in Relation to it, won’t permit any Certainty to be gather’d from him, for in whatever Capacity he afts, ’tis easy
to observe, throughout all his Words and Actions,
a
lmplkit Gallant r y. 117
a continued Distegard to Truth. However, be that as it will, this second Letter elfeftually form’d him into the very identical ass he had all along been, and as Such, produc’d the following Mixture of Apology and Impatience, which he convey’d to the Sacred Repository of his amorous Productions; where it did not long remain, before the indefatigable Vrganda took it away, to be deposited among the former elegant and beautiful Progeny of his Brain.
I
LETTER XXXVI
Philander to Phillis.
t
('sujpericrib’d, May I be happj in thy Safety.)
m
Madam)
%
4 T Am in the utmost Perplexity in the World X ^ finding that I labour under So many disappointments,
< and especially this last, which will be ‘ enough to quell me, is Some Remedy is not Sound ‘ out, which can only be your agreeable Presence, is
< not, I am undone,
* Madam, I assure you, the Moment I received ^ your first Letter, acquainting me of your Arrival ‘ in England, I immediately made Aniwer with that ♦ Sincerity you could expect from a Man, that fronj T the first was, and always will beyour’s, which I
I ^ ‘ hope
118  ,
‘ hope you don’t doubt. Now I have only to say,
‘ that 1 wonder you should any longer delay our
« happy Conclusion, which consists in our Meeting.
‘ I pray you would no longer defer it, if you have
‘ any Value form, as you tell, you may Send the
‘ Porter that came with this last Letter to my house
'to speak to me, that I may send Word by him what
‘ ever you may desire. Had I been So happy as to
‘ have been at Home, all had been well, * but to my
« great Misfortune, I was gone to the Play, tho’ I
‘ found but little Diversion there, my Thoughts al
‘ ways being still with you. So I conclude the most unsortunate of all Men till I see you, but still.
Tour mofi faithful,
and mofi humble Servant, and Lover,
PHILANDER
After this, there was no Room to harbour any Apprehensions of hisrelapfing into any future Fit of Distruft, or receeding at all from his insuperable Folly, * Nothing therefore was to be done, but to find out Ways and Means of exposing him completely, everything that could be thought of for that End feem’d feasible, for ’twas now impolfible to Shfpeft him of Sagacity enough to discover any im pofition, however grosly form’d.
That Security did not however deter his Persecutor from refining upon her Diversion. It has
been
lmplkit Gallantry. 119
«
been already observ’d, that she, in carrying on this Affair, had always as much Regard to exposing her inimitable and luxuriant Invention, as his unparallelsd and incredible Stupidity; and ’tis to be wish’d she had met with an Object a little more her Match, and consequently more worthy of being foil’d by her.
In her next Sally of this Sort, in all Probability, she’ll find more Difficulty, and corifequently make a riiore advantageous Display of her great Abilities in exposing the Foiblejfes of those boasted Lords of the Creation who are So many Ways Dupes to that Sex, when ever any of them have leisure and ill Nature enough to make ’em So.
If the Reader should hereafter find the gallant, enamour’d phi/^«^cr in warlike guise traversing the Parade, and as punctual as any Sentinel doing Duty on the Spot assigned him, he won’t be surpriz’d when he reads the following Assignation.
r
LETTER xxxvir.
Phillis to Philander.
f T Had not till Yesterday an Opportunity of taj
‘ king up your Letter; I don’t remember,
^ that in my whole Life, I was ever Sensible of such * pleasure; the transport it gave me was in ‘ expreffible, and in a Moment dissipated the exquir
I 4 f site
120 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
‘ lite uneafiness I have labour’d under ever since my
‘ last Disappointment, which I must acknowledge,
'had till then tormented me with the killing Appre ‘ henfions of your being under Engagements to another, and consequently lost to all the kind and endearing Things I have done for you. you’ll be ‘ surpriz’d when I see you, and relate what I have *’ provided for your Reception. But now to our ‘ Meeting, which is the only Thing on Earth I ‘ most wisli for, • and for effedting of which my In ‘ vention has been inceltantly employ’d j I have ' thought of various Ways, but my Judgement has ‘ at last determin’d me in the Choice of this; I am ‘ a great Lover of Riding, and am often on Horfe ‘ back, and on tvednefday next will take the Air in ‘ hide parv thither let my Charmer come between. ‘ Twelve and One i and pray put on a Scarlet Coat ' or Cloak, which will enable me to know you at ‘ Some Distance, and avoid any other that may.
chance to be riding there. I shall be in a Scarlet ' Habit, and black Hat and white Feather; do you ^ keep up to the Right Hand Wall towards Tyburn « Road, and I will ride up and Speak to you in. ^ French, as a Gentleman I was acquainted with in ‘ Paris. I shall Send my Servant immediately to Ken ‘ fington on an Errand I have already provided, and ‘ beg your Company to ride with me till he returns;
"By this Means we may have an hour’s Chat without any Sulpicion, and adjust everything for the C Completion of our Wishes. I consent you should « bring a Friend with you, but be very careful in
‘ your
Iniplicit Gallantry. 121
« your Choice, a third Peribn will be necessary,
‘ and the letting him fb early into the Secret, will ‘ engage ingenuous Minds to be faithful. If you ' bring a Servant with you, let him keep at a little
* Distance, for I shall be very unwilling to expose ‘ my Face to any but your self and Friend. I ‘ have Nothing else to add, but that the Hours may ‘ keep Pace with my eager Willies, assuring you,
• that I am faithfully and eternally your Admirer,
PHILLIS.
%
A stleft Company was pitch’d upon to partake of the Diversion, and observe the obedient punctual Philander, at the Time appointed, and in the Shape directed by his Vnknown, appear at the Place of rendezvous;; not doubting but he would give his Attendance, made all necessary Preparations for completing their Mirth, and making him servilely contribute to it.
A Brace of either Sex compos’d the Party to be detach’d on this Occasion, of whom Vrganda was to be one, and direftress of the rest.
Everything was now in readiness, and the next Day, the Time which had been assigned for the lover’s Appearance, when Some accidental Engagement prevented oneos the Company from attending at the Time appointed; this made it necessary to adjourn it till the next Day, which obliged our Vrganda to, write the following Billet, to acquaint him, that his
•. ^ V.
Hap
122 L O VE upon Tick : Or,
Happiness was to be deferr’d for Twenty-four Hours, which did very much confirm him of the Reality of the Assignation.
LETTER XXXVIII
m
Phil lis ta Philander.
4 T Have this Day wrote a Letter to the Cossee x * houst, desiring a Meeting on Wednesday ^ particular Directions where; Something extra * traordinary has happen’d in Family Affairs, that I ‘ cannot with Safety execute what I then proposed
< on Wednesday; but to demonstrate my Impatience
< and Sincerity, the ensuing Day, Thursday, ftiall ' not fail at the appointed Time and Place, being ‘ what I have so long profefs’d.
tour’s entirely,
A
PHILLIS.
The long expected Thursday Morn rouz’d the
enamour’d Philander early from his Repose, if that
can be properly applied to a Night spent in anxious
Impatience for the approaching Dawn, with starting
unquiet Slumbers, often interrupted by the terrible
Apprehensions of Some unlucky Chance to frustrate
his now impending Joy j 3 Joy which had hitherto

  123
to been the Butt of fate’s most inveterate Envy and Malice.
As soon as he had adjusted his person as well as his eager Impatience would permit, and covered it
with a Scarlet Coat, the directed Charafteriftick, he mounted his Steed, and pursued his Journey to the Field of Love, wrapped in the most agreeable Rejve
rtes that could possibly engage the Mind of Mortal, ruminating on the blelted and long expefted Opportunity he was now about to enjoy, in entertaining the best and iovelieft of her Sex with a thousand pathetic Professions of Constancy and Passion.
Many quaint Sentences, and little elsaysos Wit, he \
had charged his Memory with, in Order to play ’em off upon the first Interview, to improve the Prejudice She had So manifestly entertained in his Favour.
He, like a true and constant Lover, unable to enjoy the least Quiet, but reftless and impatient for the happy Moment when his Angelic Charmer was to appear, had render’d himself at the appointed Spot some Hours before the Time appointed; '
lb that Vrganda and her Friends, who had mounted their Nags merely to take a Survey of the expecting Lover, found him at all Points well accoutred, in the very Place, and Colour, which had been assigned him, traversing the Qround as far as he thought the Limitsof his Patrol extended, and watchfully looking out to every Avenue from whence he could expect his kind Vnhpown. They to take a nearer View, rode up to that Part of the Parffwhere he was So pun
ftufll
4
4
124 LOVE upon Tick : Or,
ftual a Sentinel, while he, cautious of coming near enough to be known, least, any Acquaintance Should accost and join him, as carefully avoided them: In this Manner did they pursue him, and in Spite of all the Care he took to avoid it, he found stm perpetually at his Heels.
When they had thus diverted themselves as long as Riding was pleasant, to his great Comfort they gallop’d off, and left him to wait for the Arrival of his Phillis, which he did with much Obstrvancy for many Hours, till to his great Chagrin he plainly perceived, he was not to expect that Day the Performance of her Promise. This was an insupportable Addition to his former Disappointments, and happy it was that Tyburn was Separated by a Wall, a dangling Lover might else have grac’d that venerable Passport to Eternity.
He knew perfectly well the four Persons who had been pursuing him, but was So far from mistrusting om what Errand they came, that he had a particular Pleasure in amusing them with his being acquainted with their Ramble, thinking it absolutely impof stble for them to discover how he came to the Knowledge of it, by reason of the Improbability of their mistrusting him to be the person they Saw in a Place and Habit so foreign from his dress and
resort.
But it was not long besore the Sollowing Letter convinced him, that instead of intermedlinp'
O
with the Affairs of his Acquaintance, he had those
of
 . 125
i
9 %
of his own of greater Consequence, which required his strictest Attention.
9
I
Letter XXXIX
Phillis to Phi lander.
0
0 «*«
SIR,
(, ' I ^ O my great Surprise, I perceive you are 1 * not the Man of Honour I took you
* for, or what you pretended to be; you would
* not certainly else have presumed to bring with you ‘ two Ladies in blue Habits, and Gentlemen with ‘ their Servants, unless you were resolved to expose ‘ me for my fondness and Simplicity; but by
* good Fortune, I discover’d you at a Distance
* immediately rode off towards Kensington, in ‘ the utmost Confusion, as you may easily imagine;
< and when I reflect how basely you intended to be ‘ tray my Sincerity, none but an equal Sufferer with « myself is capable to judge what agonising Griefs ‘ and Torments a distracted Mind like mine must ‘ feel, to be thus deceiv’d by the malicious Designs ‘ of a Man that was once more dear to me than « Words can express, or any Mortal less prepossessed" " my self is able to conceive; and what mofl:
‘ affects me, is your Design of exposing me to my ‘ own Sex. But now the Conflict is over. Hatred
r - - - - ^, _., ^
‘ and
126 L O veaiponhck : Or,
< and Revenge is what you must expect. Oh f
‘ more I cou’d add, but I should wrong my self ‘ to divert you with my Pain.... But rny kft
‘ Command obeyfend all my tetters forthwith to
* the Tree, there if I find ’em, I may perhaps
« think you capable of a due Submission to
Tour ever disobliged
PHILLIS.
P. S. ‘I had once Thoughts of never writing
* again, but think it abiblutely neceltary to have my
‘ Letters, and i’ll lend you yours. I expect ’em ' at the Tree in three or four Days. -- - I had
< fortunately put on my cloth colour’d Cloak, to
%
< prevent my being known by my Shape or Ha ‘ bit, otherwise had you Seen me at a Distance, I ‘ suppose you and your impertinent Companions
would have been rude enough to follow me. it’s ‘ no small pleasure to me, in the midst of my Di ‘ ftraftion, that I have disappointed your Ladies.
f
’twas, without Doubt, in Order to this, that the Company before Ipoken of were Ib assiduous in closely pursuing him in the Parky nd since they were not unknown to him, ’twas wonderful his Reason did not direst him to luspeft the Source of the whole long tedious pursuit he had been now Two Yeais engaged in. But he, riveted in the Assurance of his being in Reality the happy
Object
 . 127
0 _
Object of the Affection his Vnknovm had profess’d, did not suspect but that the Whole was real, and prepared to convince her of his Innocence, in Regard to the heavy Charge Ihe had branded him with.
Wherein consists the Diflference between such an irhaginary Amour as this of Philanders, as any other call’d a real one? Philander receives affigna tions, rejoyces, triumphs, and prepares with all imaginable Alacrity to observe ’em, is disappointed, frets, curies his ill Fortune, till he is bless’d with another fictitious Occasion of diftipating his Chagrin. Thus the Seemingly more happy Lover, whom the fair Object of his Pallion bleltes with all his Wilh, with like Alacrity and Impatience waits for that Hour in which he promises himself the happy Completion of all his Joys his warm Imagination dictates, but when arrived, sustains a dic appointment not inferior to philander’s; he traverses another Circle of Hope, Expectation, Disappointment, and Chagrin. Such is the Condition of us deluded Mortals, always pursuing, ever disappointed; happy he, who does not suffer himself to be carried away by any of thole tormenting and uneasy Fits of Passion, but can love and dine with the Same Indifference, and be directed only by the Clock, and his Appetite.
Philander did not seem now very far from that desirable State his Passion seem’d to be adjourn’d for; the Conviction of his own Innocence,
$
in Regard to the Particulars with which he was
charg’d.
12 8  ,
charg’d, made him in some measure disdain the Author of them. This last Disappointment made him reflect to how little purpose he had gone through a long Series of Anxiety and Inquietude; he therefore resolv’d boldly to averr his Innocence; if he was believed, ’twas well; if not, he had gain’d Courage enough to Hand the Shock. be fides, he thought it but reasonable he should make use of the Hold he had of her Affections, and resolv’d roundly to play Truant, and to convince her, that he mufl: either have Wages, or no longer wear her Livery, wrote the following Letter, which shows more of the Man, and less of the Lover, than any the Reader has been hitherto entertained with.
V
%
LET
\
Gallantry. 119
L E T t E R XLI
Philander r Phillis
Madam,
( T Am very much furpriz’d, after having beeri J < four Hours in the Parks I should not
* meet you there, much more, when for Eight
* Days you deferr’d Sending me a Letter, which at ‘ last I have received, but such a one I had rather been without it, • and here inclos’d I send
* your said barbarous Letter back again, that you ‘ may reflect on it, as you shall think fit.
« In the first Place, I was never guilty of a dishonourable Action, nor should I give my self ‘ any farther Trouble, but only to let you know ‘ your Error. The Gentlemen and Ladies you ‘ mention did not belong to me, but by Chance ‘ came there, and rode off immediately, neither » was I acquainted with them; and, as I think ‘ myself just and honest, you must give me Leave ‘ to pais to another Subject.
‘ As for sending your Letters to the Tree, I ‘ will do it as soon as you please to send mine, ‘ on which you may depend; and only send this,
‘ that you may see what great Passion, and little
* Love, has made you write; for I am sure, had
K you
136 LO VI upon Tick; Of,
« you that Love you have so often express’d Sot « me, you would have taken other Means to meet ‘ me, ('there not wanting any in London) without ^ going to a pr that would be So public, and ‘ find an Excuse So frivolous, as reflecting on a * Man that could not be guilty of So base an ac tion, but I must forget this for the good opi nion I have had hitherto of you.
'Give me Leave, Madam, to tell you, this is ^ the last Letter you shall see at the Tree from me; ‘ for since all the Protestations I have made to you won’t do, I can do Nothing further. If you ‘ still will continue your Love and Fondness for a ^ Man that So well deserves it, and that promises ‘ the same Returns to you, let me have an answer
< speedily, and I will appoint a Place, which is as
‘ follows: That you ftiall write to me two Days « before, and our Meeting may be at my House « no body ftiall be at Home but my self, and
< from thence, as you ftiall come in a Coach, I will ‘ go with you where you please. If from this ^ you decline, I will leave you, and confider of ‘ some new Amour, for I can live no longer on « chimera’s, for what I never had, I never can lose « will wait for an answer for this Eight Days, arid ‘ no Ion ser,.
O .J*
Adim*
9
fhilandtr.
How
4. '
Implicit gallantiit. 131
Slow this would be relish’d by one, who in Fast was what Phillis pretended to be, must be left to the Ladies that are really in Love, to determine, * for Vrganda lays no Claim to that Situation, Since the Reign of our late merry Monarch Charles the Second.
%
In the present State of his Affairs, it was without all Doubt, a Method entirely wrong; the person he had to deal with was not to be bullied into any Submission, but would rather be prevail’d with to dish him up Some other Entertainment of chimera’s, perhaps harder of Digestion than those he had hitherto been entertained with.
In the mean Time, it was insupportable to the hitherto triumphing Vrganda, to have her Commands thus insolently controul’d, and see him who had always been Obedience it self now daring to infill: on Terms 3 that a person she had took So much Pains to establish a Fool, should now divest himself of that Accomplishment, and pretend to ad the Man without her previously giving her Conlent.
He must submit once more or the whole Glory of her Conquest would else be absolutely lost, should he thus reassume himstls, and be restive
It has been before hinted, that our Hero thought himself of too great consequence ever to hazard his Safety; that his Aversion to Danger was great, and the consequence he w as of to the Fair, gave him plau sible and unanswerable Excules for shunning all Accidents that might endanger his lise, and their Re
K a pose
13 2  ,
f
post, * Heroic Instances these of his complaisanee, thus to Sacrifice his Honour to his Passion of obliging that Sex, • proportionable ought to be their Returns, and flagrant is their Ingratitde, that not one should contribute to reward such a meritorious and unparal lell’d Complaisance : But on the contrary, that which ought to place him in the highest Rank of their Esteem, should be made a Handle of to make him their Dupe, for that was really the case; when vr gmda found the Ties of L ove which had hitherto so Securely made him her Slave, began to Slacken, fly had recourse to that other Passion for Safety, and made that likewise her Tool for carrying on her malicious Schemes.
Let this inform deluded Man, that their Frowns,
as well as Smiles, are alike unworthy of Regard;
no body sure will need further Evidence of that,
w ho reads the following rough, military, and fono rbus Lines.
.... ........... ■■iiiiimiii ■■■ i..
LETTER XLI
Phillis to Philander.
/
6 ^ R L you not one of the vikft of miscre
^ ' ants, you certainly would not have ftulfed
‘ your last Letter with such palpable Lies, when I plainly Saw the Ladies riding close by you, and, as it
‘ Seemed
ft. • » «
lmplkit Gallantry. 133
seemed to me, talking with you; otherwise, can ‘ you imagine I can be So easily imposed on, as to ‘ believe any Ladies would chuse that dirty and re ‘ mote Part of the Park to ride in for pleasure, where ‘ I gave you Directions to be, because I knew no ' body would come there but by Design?? then « your refusing to lend my Letters to the Tree with ‘ out I first Send yours, is a Thought as base as this ‘ last Action is Scandalous j no one less vile than your ‘ self would pretend to capitulate with a Lady for ' what any Man of Honour would return upon the ‘ first Intimation; but a Man void of Honour can’t ‘ but want Capacity to judge the consequences that ^ niight attend the Sending Such a Letter, so artfully ^ contriv’d, to be the entire Ruin of a person that * has not in the least merited Such Treatment.
* I rejoice at my havirig beeri So happy as tp See ‘ through your malicious Contrivance, and must f tell you, the worst Style I can invent will be far short of doing you Justice, and I come Sar short osstig ^ matizing you as you have dcserv’d, when I brand « you with the Names of Mmmmiml, and Baje Liar;
‘ thole Terms, andworse, (could they be invented) f are emphatically your due.
*■ I ftiall, for the future, curb fb illpiaced a Pash f fion, ana never give myself the Trouble of a fu f ture Interchange of Letters with So detestable an S Animal as you now prove your stls to be.
Your daring to entertain me with Threats of a
? new Amour, and thinking So Sordid a Style can in
IC 5 ‘ fluency
r34 LOVE upon T i C k.: Or,
•I
‘ fluence me into Fear, provokes me to urge you are ' incapable of a Submission equal to your Crime; therefore, if you don’t immediately Send my letters to the Tree, a public resentment you may ' hourly expect from a Man of Honour, Worth, and ‘ Integrity, who will make demand of all the Letters
< I have So unworthily bellowed, * and Should you be ‘ imprudent enough to make the least Heiitation in
giving them, your promised destined Fate receive,
* when he Says, Phillis sights this cause,
« I consefs it will be using you with too much Respect, to Send a Gentleman of an Errand that one of « my Servants might execute without Offence on So
* insignificant a Mortal: When my past Folly enters ^ into my Mind qs having the least good Opinion ‘ of yon, I conclude myself guilty of a most hors rid Crime; a Crime, that I much fear 'the Goodness
< and Sincerity of all my future Actions will nef ver be able to efface ^ to have had the fmallefl’ Liking
‘ toa Creature So exquisitely unpoliffi’d in the Eye of
€ every one but me, who by ill-fated Passion was blind « to all your Deformities, which I, now awaked <■ from that cursed Delusion that So long haunted me, f do So clearly discover : But itss better to bear the ‘ Reflections of a tortured Mind, than be quite lost ‘ to Friends, Relations, and the whole World, which f inevitably had been my Doom had I pursued my raffi, unguarded Desires - to my kind Stars ^ for So happy a Change : And as you tender your Safety, never let your rascaljy Tongue ever more? bkspheme the Name of ' PHILLIS.
. ' : V A. '
P, d.
 , 135
P. S. ‘ To show how much I contemn your ' Pride and Arrogance, in telling me you’d wait but ‘ Eight Days for a Letter, I have made you wait " much longer.
The Wretch to whom the Ottoman Tyrant dis p.atches the faithful Mute, upon the View of the fatal Bowstring, can’t Suftain a more tremendous hor rour, than did the trembling Philander, on perusal of tliose peremptory and formidable Orders; already he figured to himfels the murdering Bravo making the threatened Demand, and without waiting for his re fusal, pursuing the shocking fatal Command of the person he had So imprudently dared to provoke.
these Contemplations could not but afford much uneafiness (not to mention the usual Concomitants of a Suddeift S urprize) to a Person of Philanders ^aci^ Ikk Temper, great is the Value, ’tis confess’d, he ah ways had for those dear Testimonies and Certificates of her Love, but as to fighting for ’em^ — he could do no more for her herself; and therefore that last
0
unerring Proof of his Passion would be inconfistently given in disputing her Commands. ’twas now northeast celsary to find Some Means of appeasing his angry Deity, and averting the Satal Effects of her Vengeance; a Hecatomb of lying Vows, and Petitions of Pardon, would then have been thought a cheap Purchase of her Favour.
To obviate effectually the terrible Esheds he did, without Hesitation, relblve to obey her Commands
in sending her Letters; and lest that stiould not be judged a sufficient Atonement for his rafii and unad
4
il L O VE upon Tick : Or,
\
vistd Defiance of her and her Power, was by no means sharing, in a Servile Submillion and firm Resolution,
never more to risque her displeasure, since it threatened shell rueful Consequences.
In Fear and Penitence he incontinently sets to work, and carries to the Tree all the Letters he had received from her since she had received the last Packet; inclosed, in the following contrite, Submiffive, Snivelling Billet, which he took Care to date, (a Caution he had Seldom' made use of before) lest she should think him remiss and dilatory in his Obedience, and be provoked to puijish him for it by her Instrument oi Revenge.
LETTER XLII
Philander rii Phillis.
f
London, Dec. i.
*
Madam,
4 HIS Morning I received your Letter, by / JL ( which I see you are still prepoifelted with
f that Thought of me, of which I am not guilty of;
< for I still dtelare solemnly that that Company did « not belong to me, but came there by Chance; and
< give me Leave to tell you, that as you came there in ' an unknown dress to me, you might have observed
their Motions; and had you waited a Moment,
« you would find your Mistake, that they went off from the Place, where land only one Servant flay’d ® there till Four a clocks and must tell you, I would
« \ s.. ^
^ not trust a Business of that Consequence even to %
lmplkit Gallantry. 137
'third Personas you give me Leave to do, for none ‘ but myself must know anything of it, declaring ‘ to you, Madam, that lam not Ib vile a Man as
* to expose you, nor would do it to any Stranger, ' much less to any one that has express’d fb great
‘ Esteem for me, and I so much value. But how ' shall I be able to bring a Belief in you, after so ill ‘ Opinion? I confess, my last Letter was unfit for
* So worthy a Lady as you, * I have cursed every ‘ Hour since I writ it, for committing such a Folly, ‘ but I still depend upon your goodness to forgive
* itconfider, it was done in Haste, after so confide
* a Disappointment, which I was not guilty of, -
* the Company that was in the Varh^ I did not think
* the case, therefore I desire you will confider better ' of it, and place me again in your Favour, yvhere I
* was once so happy : Therefore, in short, to be
* plainer, that you may believe me, I must tell you, ' is you don’t receive me into your Favour, I shall
< grow distracted- -- -- - have only to say,
* that inclosed goes all your Letters, and am very
* Sorry I did not Send them before, which I con f fess was a great Fault. As for my Letters, you ‘ shall do with them what you please, for all that ‘ comes from you will be very acceptshle to your « dutiful Slave and Servant till Death for I am
f • ** m * ’ f •
< Truth and Honesty still"
"
. (
p, S, ‘ As. for a new Love, ster this, I shall never
< follow any but my Grave, of which you may
I alture your self sherefore beg you’d confider of it;
^ better;
5%
138  ,
* better; when ever you are pleas’d to write again, I
< shall always, at first Command, send you back 5 your Letters.
‘ By your servant’s Letter, enclosed, you’ll find
* I received it too late to make answer to Gregoifs
< coffeehouse at Paris, as you directed— — - give ^ me Leave to tell you that your Suspicion is ground
* for God forbid I should be guilty of so bale 5 an Action as to expose you!
m
This cowardly and mean Submission did so thoroughly expose the Object of her Spleen, that she began to despise her Diversion, since it appear’d so easily purchased, • and happy had it been for the humble and obsequious Phi; ?rif his better Stars had Sooner prompted him to disclofe the base Contejtture of his Mind; for, (fortunate for him) it made her firmly resolve to put a Period to her Amustment, and for the future, permit his grovelling Soul to rest undisturbed by any artful Commotion railed by her, safe from any further Torments in the Capacity of a Fool, a Coward, or a Lover.
However, he appear’d too worthless to deserve ar immediate State of Tranquillity, which in all Proba? bility he would have enjoy’d, if a total Silence had immediately Succeeded the Return of her Letters, for then he must have imagined the whole Affair to be the Sham it really was, or elle that his Phillis might still retain the Passion she had formerly fb pathetically expressed his Vanity, without much Probability to Support it, would easily Suggest That. But then the
Pleasure
  i39
pleasure he would reap by that Reflection was what the ill natur’d Vrganda grudged; and therefore, though
Ihe resolved not to fatigue her self by any more Journeys to the Tree to receive his Letters, yet so small a Trouble as that of writing one more Ihe cheer fully resolved to Submit to, in order to continue him for Some Time in his present State of uneafiness and Perplexity: With this View, Ihe thus rav’d, bully’d? ' and spurn’d him,
LETTER XLIII
%
Phillis to Philander,
4 ¥ Was resolv’d to make you wait above your
Eight Days besore i’d let you know I had « received all my Letters; the Sending of which I * impute to your Cowardice, and not to your good
< Manners and complaisance to me j if not, why
‘ did not you send ’em when first I demanded ’em? ^
< I thought I had laid enough before, when I sent for ‘ them, to have prevented your committing the
< like Folly again; but it’s plain you are an incorrigible
< Sot, and it is not worth my while to take
< Pains with anything so sordidly stupid, cowardly,
^ base, nd vain,
u. -
‘ I will ingenuously own, that by Sending them ^ you have prevented your being used as you deserve; f for you Should else have been caned from one End t of the Town tp the other, * and Phillis would not
m
140 L 0 VE upon Tick : Or,
0
« have blush’d to own she had us’d a Puppy accor
* ding to his Merit; for know, that I am in too ‘ high a Station to fear the Insults of so vile a Miss ‘ crearit as your self. I must say, I am not sorry
* have escaped my deftin’d Vengeance, for it ‘ would not be agreeable to me to ule anything ill ‘ that I have had so great a Passion for, tho’ to my ‘ eternal Shame and Confusion, so egregiously miss -‘ plac’d; which, I doubt not, but Time, and the ‘ frequent perusal of your late insulting Letter, will
* effectually efface. It lies now besore me, and I ‘ hope I ftiall never be blind to its Scandalous Contents. I observe you order me to come in a Coach
* to your own house: base Wretch! am I to follow ‘ you? By that Expression, itss plain you know ‘ Nothing of me, to dare to use me with Such course' ' And then again, I have insormed my ‘ self you have no house you can call your own;
‘ So that your saucy Orders for meto come there,
« must be with no other View than to expose me.
‘ And then you’ll go in Search of a new Amour;
< Go, scurvy Wretch, and try if you can charm ‘ such another as the unhappy fond Phillis : No,
« you’ll never find Inch a Fool, Siich an extravagant
* fond Fool, - it has cost me upwards of athouiand
< Pounds to furnish a house.for your Reception,
« and to be thus rewarded, is more than my Sond Soul
* can bear. I don’t doubt being Soon rid of this unhappy Passion, and then I ftiall enjoy my For
^ at pleasure. I shall say no more, than that
6 T
Implicit Gallantrt. 141
* I demand this Letter back again as soon as you ‘ have read it
w
PHILLIS
I
, \ \
The last Part of her Letter, no Doubn extorted from him a second mean Submission, the Profpecst of her Wealth would infallibly produce that; but in what Terms it was conceiv’d, the curious inquisitive Reader has no other Means to know, but by a J ourney to the Tree, which he will find exactly situated as herein before described, where what ever answer the afflicted Philander thought proper to send, may be presumed still to remain, since unmolested by zir ganda, who firmly adhering to her resolution, contented herself with the Pain Ihe had procured him by her former Management of him j who now jaded and founder’d, was peaceably (as soon as he could forget the insulting Rage, and insinuating Offer of fingering Forty thousand Pounds contained in her’s^ at Liberty to return to his humble amusements of Brothel hunting, (and what Nature defign’d him for) the Drudgery of a Counting houle.
And long it was not before he enjoyed that State of Tranquillity : Impressions on Persons of his soft and stiallow Capacity are almost as soon erased as made; and momentary are the Effects of the most. violent Passions and Disappointments on those, who like him are void of a poignant Restedion, without
much
14^ I 0 VE upon Tick : Od.
inucli Difficulty; therefore it was that he resumed himself and reverted to the dull, insipid, lifeless ^ Clod he was, before his alsuming Vanity, heightened
by the artful Applications made to him under the Disguise of an enamour’d Nymph, had infpir’d him with a ridiculous Vivacity.
Vrganda, contented with the flagrant and egregious Display She had thus made of the Follies and despicable Foiblejfes of Mankind, and Sated with the Diversion ffie had in the Performance, found Means to comfort herself, under a continued Series of Neglect, by despising, like the Fox in the Fable, what hitherto had been out of her Reach.
How unjust: soever it may appear, that the whole Sex should bear the Odium of what none but the
contemptible Object of her amusement would be guilty of it, answered her End, in equipping her with perpetual Topics of Satyr, and by that Means inducing a strong Probability, that it was owing to the Nicety of her Taste, rather than to the Neglect of her Contemporaries, that she had not been celebrated as the Object of some sincere and devout Passion.
Thus fell the unhappy Philander, a Sacrifice to the Revenge of the neglected Vrganda; and happy for the rest of his Sex, if fb mean and worthless an ex piation will suffice;; fly may in Rage be prompted to exercise her Invention on an Object more worthy, especially if encouraged by the applause ftie expedls to meet with in this Specimen of
her
 . 143
her Abilities that Way; which if denied her. She has Dexterity enough to impute it to a Design of preventing any further ill consequences shat may attend Such a Gratification of her Spleen, rather than on any Terms
to suspedt it possible, shat this persormance of her’s should not be tacitly (at least) appoved of and admired.
’twould be absurd to make any affeisted Apology for this long and (perhaps) tedious Detail of trivial and minute Circumstances, after the author’s Approbation of the Performance has been so frequently ex * press’d in the prosecution of it. If it does not meet with the same Applause in the Perusal, as it has done (by her) in the Composition, ’twill be readily acknowledged to be the Effect: of the reader’s nicer Taste and better Judgement; in case he does not approve of the Turn just now given for hisdiflike^ being owing to his Fear of instigating her to expose any more the Foibleffes of his Sex.
Thus prepared to endure the most severe censure let it be either real or pretended, she concludes, with 3 firm Resolution to bear with equal Unconcern and Indifference, what ever Reception her Performance
may meet with, either from the prejudiced or' impartial perusers of it.
FINIS.
f
wm
'x.r
* *- ♦
k
*
« ♦ ».
^. •. ‘ ’ 1- •, •
^ ^, r ’ ^ ■ •■
I '
»**'*." ' * ' *.
-.. it'
'• #. : #, * -
■ - ''' I, I
t. ' ' • : f
»
V • ^
• r
• •
• >'
4
♦
0
> > - •
A
-, « • ■,
t.
• *. ' • • - '
• 4
. - - - ^, s #
4 ^ ^
r r.
. *.
». •
'J :
C. ^ ^ ‘ - - ■., • C‘
■ : • ■ '. • fr v
d.' f i.. '.... ■ r •
''i' ■' ■'
•». *. * ». '
. \ ^ '. "y ....; ^
'- • • •... - f -
, - ■' ' .'■■■ - ■ ■' •■' " .S"' " ■ ■■
Ai' -' ■.
.. -.. \ ' • ‘ C %
. _■ _ '.> • - ^
■ ‘ ‘ ^ • *. W ‘. •. ■. -. f’t”, '*
C " ■ V - ■ • '... ^ i ' • ■ *.. :
A' ' ‘ ^ '
* '- C V ■ s.. *.
'f s. fi ' V
'* •' ^ i *■ A M.P.
9*; -. • * 3 ^ •<, •
■ " ^ i •. ■ ^ ■
• ’ *
'' ♦ ^ •
... t. - • • ■
: t.., IP
V ■.. I ■.,.
f * • N, '
'■. ©
/ ■. 1, •''■■'• ' '.. '■; ■ •
". • - I • j •, ^ •. '. /. I •, * -. •
i ^. • V ' •
* • • •
- - 1 ' - '. • ■
...rt *. ’ V. i *'• • y
• C
■ /. ’ 't.y.
C > - - • *. V -
d ' * r.‘ ' V/
2
V. ^ m ‘ 4 ‘
gi.. ^ •.. ♦ A PW » • ^
■'■ 00 7 ly.
'' V
r - • J ft .*
A, • •• • • J. r
# *.
• % • »
• '4
'! ■ • * r ^ V ■ -- ■; •
y -■ - .... .■■'■?', •
%
%
K
• f
A
* •
\
*
4 -
4
■«
» 4
, ‘ ft - • • #
^ \
4
. i •
/
>
A
i
1
X
/
if
*
\
't
I •
/
y
>
\
'✓
»
4
• • *,
i
’ /
I
f
i
t
ft
; • /
/
*• t
. .•,.. ^
I
V
\
r
t
\.
$
/
\ /
i ^ \
i
] i ‘ ’
!;
«
i
\
1
, '. «
■■ i.,
. <. «
•; * I ■
i
/ ' ■/
■ ' ‘ - /
'! ', ■;, ■ '
: ■ ' i!,.
* * t.
'1
i : \
', I •,
~ t ' '
4 ' * •
; • ' *.
I • ' \ * ^
I f ‘ '
'' ' i. I '
'■! ^ '. = C i ■ ' ■ ■
. / ' i
'I,. ' :
t
A' \'.
'• ■ .0
i
• ‘ ' •- *
■ ■ ■ : ’ 1 ^ 1 ■ ■ ■ /
i ' '
i. *
• *. • ^
* N 0 V
'r ■ 1
. I
; ^
'h; ■ ■ -, \ ^
\
»
. ' ' .i,.
■ t ‘
■ ■ ■ ■, I
*.
/ ' ■ ' '
', n «. I
/
I ' - '
/,
I
1
I
/
\
«
\
/
I
*
I
r
/
\ ‘.
I
j
\
t
'' /
• • %
t
, »
i ^
- •
I
V
f
t ‘,
)
\
\
0
/
\
'7 *;
'I 'A
: i
4 ' [ ' '
S
i
0
'> '.
4. 1
9
4 *
t
/,
1
• t
t
t
* \\ ■, '
■ /
•• 0, ^
t
I
• •. /
'«
4
S ^
i
. ', d ■., ■
* •«
i
I
!
\
4
ft
; \
\
\
\
\
, I
\
i
>
1
f
f
:
‘ /
I
4
I
/, ' ■
,. • I
1;
I
t
\
I •
»
1
« ^
\
\
\ \ '
i *
>
\ ' t \
I
r 1 fj 6^
'N
3 1
A I
uh
i \
4
. 1
»
\
\
1 ' '
\ %
$
ft
\
I
I
\
\
\
\
I
t
/
t
/
«
I
\
<
/
. \
il
/
\
i ' ' ^. / ■
S
0
\
!
‘ t f -
I
i I
(
X
m
ft
\
* ' /
*
