‘ /
*•
THE
'H I S T O Pv Y
X
O F
 ' *
T H E
T R I U M P H
O F
loveandbeauty;
OR, THE
HISTORY
O F

AND HIS FAMILY.
IN FOUR BOOKS.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
Printed for Robinson & Roberts, in pater noiter roiv.
THE
HISTORY
O F
Mr. VA L L AGE.
BOOK I.
About eight o’clock sh a fine evening in July, as Mr. Brereton was walking with his family ia the garden adjoining to his house, which was Situated in one of the most pleasant villages near London, the arrival of   the only Son of an old friend of that gentleman’s, being announced by his Servant, he hastened to receive him; and Soon afterwards, having brought him into the garden, presented him to his daughters. — So friendly a reception gave Mr. vol. I. 'B Wall

Wallace uncommon pleasnre, though he had Some reason to expect it from the intimacy which had Subsisted between his father and Mr. Brereton. As disappointments of that nature, however, are not unfrequent, from the uncertainty of all human friendships, he was extremely glad to find that his father had not discovered any want of penetration in recommending him So strongly.
Mr. Brereton had been an eminent counsellor; and as  s father designed him for the bar, he thought it might be greatly in his friend’s power not only to give his Son proper advice, but also to facilitate his progress in the law. — Reasonably indeed did old  conjecture that his friend would employ all his interest in his son’s favour, and make himself Serviceable to him by the exertion of his faculties; but the amiable qualities and extensive accomplishments of young Wallace, Soon convinced Mr. Brereton that Such accomplish, mentsand Such qualities would Sufficiently enable him to shine in his profession, without his assistance.
Mr.
Mr. W A L L A C E. j
Mr. Brereton, upon a nearer acquaintance with his young friend’s principles and parts, disposition and capacity, felt increasing respect and esteem for him; and found So much pleasure in his conversation, that he could not bear to think of his departure. — Whenever he talked of occupying chambers in the Temple, in which he was to settle at the beginning of winter, Mr. Brereton insisted upon his coming down to him as osten as his avocations would permit him, urging the disagreeableness of a town situation to a man in his ill state of health. — He also made him promise to devote all his lej sure moments to him,
Wallace was very ready to promise a compliance with Mr. brereton’s earnest entreaties, because he was well assured of finding in him a sincere friend, an able instructor, and an agreeable companion.
While these two gentlemen were every day becoming more amiable in each other’s eyes, the fine person, elegant ac complishments, and polite address of the younger, were not over looked by the la b 2 dies
4 The FI I STORY of
dies of the family, the two miss brere tonnes, and an intimate acquaintance of theirs who was come to Spend a few weeks with them.
As Mr. Brereton had lost his wife about three years before, the eldest of his daughters, who was about three and twenty. Superintended his domestic affairs, and did the honours of his table with a Spirit and propriety which not only gave him the highest Satisfaction, but rendered every'movement in his family agreeable to the company whom he chose to invite; and his guests were numerous, as he had a plentiful fortune, was a warm lover of Society, and of a generous hospitable temper.
miss Brereton was tall, and had a fair complfxipn : her features were not perfectly regular, but were extremely attractive; she had a pair of the finest black eyes imaginable, in which, when they were not under the influence of the tender passions, there was a dazzfing brilliancy, but into which she could, at pleasure, throw a languishing foftness, and by So doing make them doubly bewitching;
her
  5
her nose was aquiline; her mouth was pleasyigly formed, and the colour of her hair vras a dark chesnut.
miss ceciliabrereton wasnearfive years younger than her sister, and very different from her in her person. She was much shorter, but gracefully proportioned. — She was not a complete beauty, but had Such a naivete in her appearance. Such an expreshon of genuine innocence and openness of heart beamed, at first sight, in her countenance, that she pleased you before you was aware of her powders, and gained lovers as fast as her sister captivated admirers. — Her complexion was of. a polished whiteness, and animated with the glow of health: her eyes were of a bright blue, and her hair auburn : to finish her portrait, innumerable graces dimpled round her mouth whenever she Spoke or Smiled, which discovered great sweetness of disposition, and a strong desire to give pleasure to all who beheld her.
Maria Brereton struck you at the first glance of your eye, by the majestic dignity of her air; Cecilia charmed you by

the delicacy and by the simplicity of her manners. Maria awed her beholders by the grandeur in her mien; Cecilia allured them by an irresistible Somewhat which they Scarce knew how to describe; and the majority of those who were at first sight struck with the figure of the former, shook off her chains, and became voluntary vassals to the almost imperceptible but increasing power of the latter.
The young lady their friend and companion, was miss Myers, who, though not a beauty, was a very agreeable woman; she was therefore a particular favourite of miss brereton’s, in whose eyes she did not appear the less So, from the marks which the smallpox had left upon her face.
Perpetually Surrounded by three Such girls, Wallace must have been Something more or less than man to have kept his heart, especially as they were all thoroughly Sensible of his merit, and as each preferred him Secretly to any man they had ever Seen. — His person, indeed, was So remarkably pleasing, that if their inclinations had been engaged, they could
not
Mr. W A n F A C E. 7 not have looked at him with total indifference. — He was of a good stature, and in his well proportioned figure, strength and grace were equally conspicuous. His face was oval, covered with a rosy bloom, which is not often Seen among our young men of fashion. — His eyes, teeth and hair, the last of which was of a fine light chesnut, gave lustre to his whole appearance. To heighten his attractions, he was modestly majesde in his carriage, and discovered in every part of his behaviour uncommon proofs of delicacy and discernment.
The father of  was the younger Son of an ancient and honourable house in the North of England, and had been bred to the study of physic : a study which he pursued with success enough to maintain his family, consisting of two daughters besides this Son, genteelly; but the emoluments of his profession were not Sufficient to enable him to lay tip fortunes for his children, as he was determined at all events to provide, if possible, for a wife whom he most affectionately loved and revered on account of her many virtues, particularly her doss 4 mestic
3 Ihe itistory or
mestic economy, by which, far exceeding his expectations, he had been in a situation to Send his only Son to glasgow to complete his studies. — From glasgow young Wallace had not been long absent when he appeared at Mr. brereton’s, having only Spent little more than a fortnight at his father’s before he Set off for London and its environs.
Young Wallace vas not a gay man, neither was he what is generally called a gallant man; his behaviour among women was, however, perfectly easy and agreeable, especially among women of
education. -- Looking upon the Mils
Breretons as the daughters of a man who had shown So much esteem for him,
and who had it in his power W ^ifo
of much Service to him, he treated them with the utmost poiiteness and the pro foundest respect: miss Myers too, as she was their intimate, had her share of his complaisance; but never did he Suffer his complaisance to carry him beyond the bounds of the most consummate discretion, though his situation with the ladies in the Same house occasioned an unavoidable interchange of little innocent familiarities :
vir. ^
liarities all the ladies behaved to him with great condescension, but each of them distinguished herself by a peculiar behaviour.
During his stay at Mr. brereton’s, he received a letter from a young man of fashion with whom he had contracted a particular intimacy at College, to let him know that he was come to town, and to desire his company for a few days.
As he perceived that neither Mr. Brereton nor the ladies were willing to let him leave them, before his departure was demanded by duty, he freely communicated the contents of his letter in order to evince the necessity of his removal. To these contents the old gentleman replied, “My house is your home at present: you “have no other: invite yourfriend, there“ “to come hither, when he is tired of “the pleasures of the town, which are not very numerous at this time of the year, “and then you will be under notempta tions to leave me.”
B 5 Mr;
to The History ot
  with a respectful po liteness, would have excused himself from taking Such a liberty; but as Mr. Brereton would not hear of any objections to his proposal, he Set out for London, determined to act in obedience to it.
On the morning of his departure, Maria very warmly Seconded her father in urging his quick return, about which miss Myers with an affected air expressed the Same Solicitude, while Cecilia Said little, but by the seriousness of her as pect, and the blushes which crimsoned her fair face, when her father rallied her upon her indifference concerning his favourite’s journey to London (as he frequently called Wallace), showed that she was not less affected by it. — As to him, having hot So much vanity in his composition as half the young fellows in town are possessed of, and not being really in love with either of them, he rode away with a chearfulness which proved incon testibly the tranquillity of his heart.
Upon his meeting Sir Edward Rustly
at the place appointed, he informed him
of
vir. vv .rt JU rx N.. XL
of Mr. brereton’s invitation, and told him also that he might possibly be in Some danger, as there were Seldom to be found in one fansily three more agreeable girls,
” And to which of the three, ” replied Sir Edward, “does your fancy lead you? “I alk this previous question, because I “would not willingly, if I should be en“ “interfere with my friend in an affair which often is attended with con“ “fatal to the firmest connexions. “— The most folidfriendshipsshave been weakened, have been totally destroyed, “by the clashing of rival claims.”
“To neither of them, ” Said Wallace, ' “does my fancy lead me; my present “Situation in life will not permit me to “think Serioufiy, with prudence, about “any woman: women of fortunes, as “the miss Breretons are, will very ra“ “look above me; and I should “therefore deem it madness to employ. “my thoughts upon a woman without “one, till I had a Sufficiency to make “her happy. — You have therefore, my “free leave. Sir Edward, to chuse either of the ladies, and my best wishes B 6 “for
12 irie irlistory or
“for success with her who makes the
deepest impressions upon you.
Wallace, having Spent a few days in town, returned to Mr. Brereton, and, according to his desire, introduced Sir Edward to him, who was most cordially received as the friend of
As Sir Edward Rufsly was very pleasing in his person, and engaging in his address, the addition of his company was by no means disagreeable to the family. — The five young people therefore, with Mr. Brereton, who headed their parties. Spent their time in the various amusements which the Society of a pleasant little village, and the last Smiles of a fine autumn afforded them.
In the midst of those amusements their peace was in Some measure interrupted by the arrival of Mr. monson, the Son of an old friend of Mr. brereton’s, who had, before he went to make the tour of Europe, been engaged by the consent of the two fathers, and his own inclination, to miss Brereton.
This
vir. vv I J. j i JL. 1 j
This young gentleman had been extremely struck with the commanding person and great vivacity of Maria; and would have married her before he left England; but as he met with a strong opposition from both sides, he was obliged to be contented with a solemn promise that she should be his at his return : and it was his passion for her which occasioned that return .Sooner than it was expected.
When he came down to Mr. brere lon’s, it was natural to imagine that he should discover all the ardour of a lover who had long been absent from the mis tress of his wishes: and he did, indeed,
, fly to her arms with the utmost impatience. — But, whether he was damped by the remarkable coldness with Which Maria received him, or whether he was animated by the winning behaviour of Cecilia, who treated him with the innocent familiarity of a Sister, certain it is, that he felt an almost instantaneous change in his disposition with regard to the two ladies, and transferred his affection from the one to the other. As an abrupt avowal, however, of his new
Sen
Sentiments might, he justly thought, defeat his designs, he with much ingenuity concealed them, only embracing every opportunity, when he was not observed by the rest of the family, to pay all imaginable attention to Cecilia; and he regulated his carriage with So much dexterity, that she could not well be offended with it, as it appeared rather to express the esteem of a brother than the assiduity of a lover. — miss Cecilia, stis true, had So little vanity, and was So entirely taken up with attending to the merit of   that she had not the faintest ideas of the real motives by which Mr. monson’s behaviour to her was actuated. — Not So blind was miss Brereton : fine immediately discerned the Sudden and violent alteration in Mr. monson: it wounded her pride to See her lover faithless, and to See her sister, whom she looked upon as far inferior to her in personal charms, preferred; but she would not have been So much hurt, if any other woman had engaged a man who had never been the object of her inclination. disagreeable, however, as the visible change in his Sentiments concerning her was, as she plumed herself upon the Superiority of
her
ivir. 15
her beauty, she winked at it, on account of   who, from their first acquaintance, had charmed her.
monson proceeded with the utmost caution, lest jealousy should instigate miss Brereton to ruin himself in cecilia’s eyes, before he had by imperceptible gradations made himself master of her heart, over which he hoped, from the sweetness of her temper, and the opportunities which she innocently and un defignedly gave him. Soon to triumph. Cecilia also was the more ready to listen to him, and to join the parties of pleasure which he formed, as Wallace almost always assisted at therh; for whom monson too conceived a prodigious es teem: not that she was, at first. Sensible herself that she had So great a predilection for Wallace, but she felt an involuntary desire to be always near him. If they walked out, she was generally by his side, without thinking how she came in that situation: if she danced, she always gave her hand with more alacrity to him than to any other man.' When they had little concerts, among
them
lu, • jlilc, 4LJL1&1UK.X Ui
themselves, Ihe never failed to sing at his request, and to his accompaniment.. She had aiso drawn his portrait, when, Ihe only fancied that she was tracing out upon her vellum the most amiable figure in the world. — Yet in the whole of her behaviour there was Such a modest fimt plicity, that monson himself, who, as a lover, should have been the most clearsighted, was deceived by it; but Maria, from her extreme partiality for Wallace, and. from keener penetration. Soon discovered what the innocence of her sister had concealed from her. — As she, however, had not been able, with the.utmost stretch of her Sagacity, to discover an equal passion in Wallace for Cecilia, she watched him with redoubled vigilance; keeping all her Suspicions concerning Cecilia to herself, and only striving to make him as Sensible of her own power of pleasing as she was of his.
In consequence of this plan, she Sought every; opportunity to attract the attention oi Wallace, who, having no attachment to her Sister, fell into her
Schemes
  tj
■ Schemes with a promptitude which encouraged her to hope that she should mould him according to her wishes.
While Wallace, monson, and the miss Breretons, were thus employed. Sir Edward russly and miss Myers were not idle : the former became, in a short time, violently enamoured with ^ Cecilia, and the latter with the large independent fortune of the baronet.
Sir Edward, penetrating deeply into. the views of his companions. Soon discovered, with infinite regret, the propensity of miss Cecilia Brereton to his friend: he perceived, indeed, nothing particular in the behaviour of Wallace to her to alarm him; but as he loved her with a tender and sincere passion, he expected, he dreaded every moment to hear that her attractions either had Subdued or would Subdue a heart which was, he knew, possessed of the most delicate Sensibility. He was, therefore, continually .talking of her, perpetually praising her to him, in order to hear his replies, though he lived in constant apprehensions that thole replies would
prove
IQ X UC xaiaiulvy u1
prove fatal to his peace. — While he lavished his panegyrics, however, on the beauties of her person, and her intellectual attainments, and with much pathos lamented her indifference, he weighed his expressions with great nicety before he uttered them, that not One of them might give Wallace room to furmise that he himself appeared to her in a favourable point of view; but he was af siduoussy earnest to make. Wallace believe that miss Brereton discovered in every part of her carriage a Strong inclination for him. — And yet, in Spite of his endeavours not to mention cecilia'’s partiality for his teiend, lest the disdosure of it should excite Similar feelings iri his bosom, the ardour of his passion Sometimes threw him ofi' his guard. One day, in a moment of forgetfulness, he cried out, “Oh! Wallace, would I were you 1” — that’s an odd wish, methinks, sired“ “” replied Wallace; who, while his friend was dying with love, was burning with an ambitious desire to raise his character, to acquire a fortune Sufficient to reward his father and mother for their tender care of him, and to place himself advantageously in the world.
y Not
  19
“Not at all, ” Said Sir Edward; you “are So well received by the miss Brere “tonnes, and especially by the lovely Ce“ “because you are So high in her fa“ “esteem, and for no other reason I “am persuaded, that I would most glad“ “be in your place: possibly I might “then be happy enough to make her “Sensible of my ardent passion for « her.”
“Your rank in life, ” Said Wallace, “your fortune, and your merit, added to “the esteem of Mr. Brereton, of which “you have no reason to entertain any “doubts, will unquestionably. Sir Ed “■ ward, make all the impression you can “wish on miss cecilia’s heart.”
“Do not flatter me, Wallace; do not “flatter me, — I shall never obtain So desirable a blessing. — What is rank? “what is fortune? what is anything “compared to the love of that dear “girl? — Could I but make myself agree“ “to her; had I but the lightest“ “of pleasing what my Soul dotes on, I should be happy!
“You
2
“You See, Sir Edward, ” replied Wallace, Smiling, “that I was right in “thinking it strange that you should “wish to change Situations vrith me. — “You have but one wish to gratify, but ‘‘ I have So many wishes that I dare not “expect the fruition of them. — To “provide for a father.and a mother equal“ “excellent,, a comfortable Subsistence, “if old age or sickness should overtake “them before they have laid up enough “to retire with; - — to settle my sisters de“ “and to procure a competency “for the ealy enjoyment of life, with the “mistress of my heart, all — —
“Hold, hold, Wallace, ” cried Sir Edward, interrupting him with impetuosity, “you own then that you are in y love.?”
“I do, russly, ” most frankly, replied he, “but not with Cecilia.” - —
“A thousand thanks for that declara “tion — I breathe again, ” replied Sir Edward, “and can insure your' happiness “by a marriage with her sister Maria, “who adores you; by which marriage
“vour
vir. VV A tl. 21
“you will be enabled to carry your ge“ “designs into execution, and six “your own felicity at the same time. “You deserve to be happy, and you may “be So.”
“buti could not, I fear, ” Said Wallace, “enjoy felicity with Maria, were I mean “enough to avail myself of her atten “tions to me, and by stealing the affec iikiions of my friend’s child, make So base “a return for the hospitable reception he “has given me. — Besides, is she not eri“ “to Mr. monson ?’*
“She is, ” Said Sir Edward, “but they “discover not the least love for each “other. — She is as entirely attached to “you, as he is to Cecilia. But sup“ “my dear Wallace, that the lady “is unable to be happy without you “(and that is, I see plainly, the case); ‘‘ and fuppose that Mr. Brereton, full of esteem and affection for his daugh “ter, should consent to your marriage, “and give her an ample fortune, would " not your happiness be completed? —
y No’!
22 me jrirstory or
“No, *’ Said Wallace — “it would not
be completed.”
“Then you must certainly love Cecilia, ?”
“Not So neither. — Oh! Rufsly, why, “why will you thus fret a wound which “time nor reason have yet had power to “heal?”
Sir Edward was So pleased to hear that his friend was not his rival, that he earnestly entreated him to open his heart freely, adding, that it might possibly be within the reach of his abilities to be as Serviceable to him as he wished to be. — “But if I cannot, continued he, give “you any assistance, let me, at least, “have the Satisfaction of contributing “by the exertion of my friendship to re“ “the disquietude with which your “mind is oppressed— — the communi“ “of your tender griefs you will “certainly receive Some comfort. Do “not therefore, my dear Wallace, any “longer refuse me what I have Some y right to claim., your confidence.”
“That
  23
“That you wish to see me happy, I firmly believe, ” replied Wallace with a faint Smile; “but that the disclosure “of the Sentiments which I have hitherto So cautioussy concealed will tend to “make me So, lam yet to learn. — But “as I find you love miss Cecilia with a “violence which will exclude ease till “you are assured that I cannot be a com“ “know, russly, that all beau “tiful and amiable as I allow her to be, yet she is, in my opinion, not equal to miss “Lessey. — When I returned from glas“ “to my father’s, the pleasure of see ing my family was considerably increased by the Sweet Society of that amiable “girl, who was under the care of Mr. “and Mrs. Edwards, near neighbours “to my father; both of them very agree able and worthy people: but to describe the beauties and the graces of “the inch anting Fanny, is beyond my powers; — and had I powers adequate “to the talk, I would not trust you, “Rufsly, with Such a portrait, — though “I am certain that your heart is irre coverably lost to miss Cecilia Brereton. — But why, ” continued he with a
look
^4 *lhe History of
look of despair, “should I refrain from “the description of charms which can “never be mine? — Imagine, then. Sir “Edward, that you See an elegantly pro“ “figure about the middle size, ‘‘ with a neck and arms as white as the “driven Snow, and with the Same com“ “animated by a vivid glow of ** health. — ^tler eyes are the mostfoft “ly expressive to be conceived; and “when modestly cast down, almost ‘‘ hid by long, thick, shining eyelashes“ “fine glossy hair of the same bright “colour, she wears carelessly turned back under a laced round cap, which gives an additional air of innocence to “her face, though the Simplicity of her “manners would be Sufficient to kindle “the flame stove without any other animating charsh — : her mouth and “teeth are inexpressibly bewitching, but “her disposition is still more captivating “than her person; So tender. So mild, “So engaging! — In short, I was quite “enslaved before 1 knew that I was “touched, and fancied only that I was “as much the object of her pity as 1 y hoped to be.” ^
<6 Vnn
You have, then, declared your passion?”
‘‘ No! If honour had notpreventedme “from taking So rash a step, love would have started at the impropriety of it.’*
“I cannot Seeeither the rashness or the impropriety of it.”
No! What can be more dishonour ‘‘ able, what can discover less regard for “the object of one’s affections, than the “acknowledgement of a passion which it “is not in one’s power to indulge, but to “her certain disadvantage? I have no “fortune: can I, then, wish to involve a “lovely, innocent young creature, whom “I love, in the miseries with which Rich “a union must be inevitably attended? “There could, indeed, be no actual affec tion in Such a mean proceeding, and no“ “but a mere Selfish gratification of “my own low appetites could induce me “to act So unworthy, So delpicable a part.” ^
“Well, but you are Sure that she loves you?”
vol. I. C f‘in
“Indeed but I am not. — From her in“ “with my Sisters as neighbours I “was, it is true, frequently near her, “but strove to conceal my passion in “my own bosom with the greatest care, “Some inadvertencies might possibly“ “in Spite of all that caution, “escape me; but from the modesty of “her carriage, and the extreme delica“ “of her whole behaviour, I never “had reason to hope that they might be “pardoned, if they had not been kind y ly overlooked.”
“Ah, George, George, ” cried Sir Edward, “you endeavour to make me “believe you are not beloved, but you “endeavour in vain. Fleavens! were “Cecilia to treat me'^tl^us kindly, as “you call it, I shcrild 1^ the happiest “of men: but you wcte born to be “blessed in love! I, for a different fate!
You have not, though, told me “who this flame of yours is. Has she “no parents
“None in England. — Mr. and Mrs. “Edwards, whom I have already men“ “brought her up from her earliest

  27
“liest infancy, and she is now a6out “sixteen. She is their niece, and though“ “give her a finished education, “declare that she must not expect any ‘‘ thing considerable, and are particiu “larly cautious with regard to her go“ “much into mixed company, with “whom they are not acquainted. She “has, therefore, been accustomed rather “to a retired life, which she Seems to ap“ “of; yet She has conversed enough “with polite people to acquire a man“ “which is neither to be defined nor “deicribed.”
The entrance of miss Brereton put a stop to any further conversation concerning miss Lessey, and Sir Edward left his friend more Satisfied than he had yet been, having been assured by him that he had nothing to apprehend from him in the shape of a rival,
Cecilia now began to perceive that Mr. monson’s approaches were too brisk to be considered as arising from the impulses of brotherly affection, and tha his indifference to, not to say total net elect of, Maria, was very visible to all. c2 the
^25 Ihe iu IS TOR y or
the family, particularly So to that lady herself; who, from a good nature not to be often met with in a fine girl, on Seeing her sister treated with Superior complaisance, very Serioufiy entreated her father, who beheld her with partial eyes, to make Mr. monson happy with Cecilia: though it is highly probable, that if she had not been Secretly in love with Wallace, site would have been less Solicitous about the marriage of her Sister with the man who had So grosty affronted her pride.
Mr. Brereton expressed the utmost Surprise at this intelligence and request; but immediately told his daughter, that a man who could So Soon remove his addresses from one to the other, was, in his opinion, not a proper husband for either; and that if she was Sure of not being mistaken, he would take an opportunity to desire monson to quit his house, not Supposing that Cecilia would be So weak as to like a man who had discovered So much sickleness. But the removal of monson was not the event which Maria wanted to bring about : she Saw very plainly that her Sister was in love with
Wallace;
,   29
Wallace; and as she earnestly wished to shave herdisposed of, and imagined, from her behaviour, that Monlbn was the next most agreeable man to her, she was in hopes that her Scheme would prove Successful, if her father could be induced to comply with it: but, finding that he would not listen to her proposals, she turned her eyes towards Sir Edward russly, who was also, she observed, very public in his assiduities to Cecilia, while she, at the Same time, took every method in her power to discover how extremely agreeable  was to herself. As he was, however, in no way particular in his behaviour to her, she found it Somewhat difficult to make him Sensible of what he had no desire to become acquainted with. Every little artifice did she, with all the dexterity she
■ was mistress of, put in practice to please, to
■ charm him, to rpuzehis tenderness, and to
■ inspire his Soul with love to nopurpose; for the idea of his amiable Fanny still reigned triumphant in his mind, and rendered him, if not totally indifferent to Maria, So cool in his carriage as to blast all her fond expectations.
s'?
The History of
His frigid behaviour at first piqued her pride, and almost prompted her ter Seek for an opportunity to revenge the neglect: which her personal attractions, and the advances which she had made to him, she thought, deserved; but his manners were, in every other respect, so very engaging, that she found herself incapable of injuring what she could not possibly help loving. She often, indeed, showed resentment; but as he either did not, or would not, take notice of it, no Satisfaction arose from her efforts of that kind.
While Maria was thus hourly endeavouring to charm Wallace, Sir Edward Rufsly was employing the most tender, the most Submissive eloquence to prevail on Cecilia to listen to him: but he employed ^11 his eloquence ineffectually. So amiable, however, was his behaviour, and So dejected his air, whenever she refused to hear him upon the only Subject on which he wished to Speak, or when she rejected any of his little offers to please her, that her gentle bosomfelt pitying sensations for him; and she was the more inclined to compassionate his
  i feelings, as she found at length how much she herself stood in need of commiseration. She strove, indeed, with the utmost diligence to conceal her feelings : imagine, then, her confusion and Surprise, when Sir Edward Said to her one day, after having vented a number of fruitless complaints against her coldness and indifference, “Had I but been “fortunately acquainted with you, Ma“ “before you had Sefen my friend “  I possibly might have been able, by my respect, tenderness, “and assiduity, to touch a heart of “which he has been, I See too plainly, for Some time possessed.’*
Poor Cecilia, ready to die with confusion, and blushing almost to tears, replied, “Gracious Heaven! What can “you mean. Sir Edward?” After a moment’s pause, “Spare me, I entreat you, ” continued she, with a Softened voice; “nor imagine that, though I cannot “look upon you in the light you would have me, I am capable of thinking of “a man, however amiable, who has no y attachment to^me.’*
^
The last words, in Spite of all her caution, were Spoke with So weak a voice, that they were hardly intelligible: she turned away her head to hide her moistened eyes; but Sir Edward Saw the tears roll down her face. Struck with the greatest concern at the pain which he had undesignedly given •her, he begged her, in the most Submissive terms, to pardon him, for having mentioned what his unsuccessful passion for her would not permit him to remain ignorant of, assuring her, at the same time, that he loved her too well not to be ready, nay, even desirous, to resign all hopes of his own happiness to insure hers. — “Most probably, ” continued he, “when this happy fellow knows how “high he is in the esteem of the charm“ “miss Cecilia, he may at once “quit all thoughts of her whom, were “he to wait for, he may possibly never “be able to gain.”
these few concludingwords gave Such an alarm to Cecilia, that it threw her quite off her guard: with a faint voice, and with a face and neck glowing like Scarlet, she Said, turning from Sir Edward,
ivir. w A ij i i A 33
ward, “ s heart, then, is y engaged. Sir.?”
Sir Edward, who loved her, and who actually felt all her distress, pitied her confusion; but though it certainly was likely that her being acquainted with the situation of  s heart, would not prove disadvantageous to him, he thought also that the early knowledge of the worst might contribute to her advantage by curing her of an ill placed pashon, and give Some relief to her over charged mind. It had that effect; for it drew from her an instantaneous shower of tears, which she hastily wiped away; then lifting up her Sweet bashful eyes for a moment, she Said, “I know not “how to look on you. Sir Edward : ‘‘ you See before you a Simple girl op“ “with shame at having thus dis “covered the Secrets of her breast: fe ‘‘ crets, which though not criminal, are “So repugnant to the delicacy of my Sex, * “that I could wish to hide them for “ever, even from myself. I should have “had more fortitude, more pride, than “to have betrayed an inclination for a “man who has none for me; but I will C 5 ■ “instantly
34 Aoe nistory oi
“instantly endeavour to conquer So ca“ “a folly; and I hope that you will ‘‘ Soon perceive a total change in me“
“I hope then, ” Said he, with the most tender and Submiffive voice, “to “have a share in that So much wished“ “alteration in your Sentiments? and “may I flatter myself that I shall, one day. Supply the place of my happy “friend
A sigh was all the reply which she made to him; but after a little hesitation, “Why do you call him happy, “Sir Edward?” Said she; “if I remember “right, you told me that he might, pos sibly, never gain the object: of his af sections: what pains are more infup “portable than those which are occali ‘‘ oned by unreturned love
“I meant. Madam, that he was happy in being So favourably looked upon byyou.**
“Not at all, replied Cecilia, mypar ‘‘ tiality for him gives him no pleasure, it is probably rather difgusting; and
lie
Mr. W A JL L A C L 35
he, perhaps, pines and Sighs for one f * who as little heeds him.”
Company appearing not far from them in the garden, prevented Sir Edward from continuing a conversation which was, he thought, very interesting, but which made too deep an impression upon Cecilia for her peace. Finding that Sir Edward was become master of a Secret which she never had intended to disclose, she treated him with more consideration from that time, though not the least Spark of a prepossession in his favour appeared to be mixed with it.
Mr. Brereton, agreeably to what he had Said to Maria, took an opportunity to tell Mr. Monfbn, that, as he had found he had changed his mind with regard to his daughter, it was highly improper for him to be any longer a visitor in his family; and therefore hoped that he would Spare him the disagreeable office of desiring him to quit it.
monson, finding that Cecilia, as fbon as she discovered his attachment to her, behaved in a different manner to him, and C 6 rave
go ine nistory oi
gave him no Sort of encouragemenstreturn ed to his first mistress, and affected a strange Surprise at the carriage of Mr. Brereton; assuring him that he had riot transferred his affections from miss Brereton to any other woman. On being charged with giving the preference to Cecilia, he declared, that he had only been a little particular to her, in order to try the strength, of her sister’s inclinations for him, whom he still loved with as much ardour and sincerity as ever; and entreated Mr. Brereton to let him have the happiness of Speedily calling him father. That gentleman, however, would on no account; make a promise till he had again con shlted his favourite, Maria; he only permitted monson to continue his addresses; to her.
. A party upon the water having been formed one hot evening, these six young pcpple, with Mr. Brereton, Spent Some agreeable hours in a large pleasure boat with musick; during which Mr. monson, endeavoured to render himself acceptable to miss Brereton, who directed all her looks towards Wallace. Sir Edward ryssly was very assiduous near miss Cecilia

ivir. vv II JL. .fi. V JL. 37
cilia, and miss Myers strove with all her powers of plea, Sing, to extort a Smile of .complacency from Sir Edward. If Wallace had been left to his own choice in this little party, Cecilia would have been the fair one to whom he would have attached himself for the evening, because, in her person and disposition, she came the nearest to his amiable Fanny: but the fear of giving the least uneafiness to his friend, kept him from Seeking any opportunity to entertain her. An accident, however. Soon happened, which obliged him to appear the principal figure in the group, and fixed him too deeply in cecilia’s memory to be easily erased.,
Sir Edward had remained close by her side till Mr Brereton drew him from it, by ashing a question which made it northeast ceffaryforhim to leave his Seat. While he was giving Mr. Brereton the desired information, Cecilia leaning too far over the boat to look at Something, fell into the water. Wallace, who happened to be nearest to her, plunged in immediately after her, and brought her out before she had quite lost her senses.; Fear
""
35 me nistory oi
had almost deprived her of them; but when she Saw who her deliverer was, and to what danger he bad voluntarily, ex posed himself for her preservation, terror yielded to gratitude, and a still Softer passion So far over powered her, that she could hardlyhide her tender feelings, while she, half recovered, hung languishing upon bis arm.
Sir Edward, who was exceedingly alarmed at the condition she was in, flew' to her, and but too plainly perceived, that the assistance which his friend had afforded her, gave her a pleafurp equal to the shock which she had received.
This disaster obliged them all to return home with all poshble expedition. Both the sisters expressed So much concern, lest wallace’s health should be injured by his sitting in his wet doaths, that they evidently discovered how much they were interested in everything relating to him. Mr. Brereton also expressed the most lively gratitude for the safety of his daughter, calling him the preserver of his child : he made him go into a warm bed immediately upon their landing,
and
Mr. W A L JL A C E;
and took as much care of him, as if he had been his own Son,
Wallace, who had, indeed, done no more for Cecilia than he would have done for any other woman upon the Same occasion, and who was only actuated by humanity, appeared to be the most easy and composed of any person in the family; every other individual in it was apprehensive lest Something might arisc from the eve«t. miss Brereton was, however, far the most So, as she had at first discovered her sister’s prepossfeshon; for Wallace, which was, she very clearly perceived, increased by it; and knowing, at the Same time, her father’s high opinion of him, she concluded that nothing was more probable than a marriage between them: she, therefore, redoubled her assiduity about him, and ever ventured to show Some tenderness and much anxiety, lest his continuance long in his wet doaths, as they could not immediately get home, should endanger his health. Her attentions about him were indeed So remarkable, that, as he found himself not disposed to make an adequate return, they grew rather embar
raffmar.
JL lie xj.lsluk3f Ui
raffing, and he resolved to put a Speedy conclusion to his visit, at Mr. brereton’s, and to take possession of his chambers in the Temple. He. was: the more desirous of taking this step on poor cecilia’s account, who, with the most diligent caution, studied to conceal her love; but it was So interwoven with gratitude, that all her efforts were insufficient to restrain it in Such a manner as to prevent the appearance of it. Some signs, in Spite ofher utmost vigilance, were observa ble by everybody about her; they were indeed too Striking to be overlooked by the most careless observer.
Mr. Brereton was not less willing than his daughters that avallace should leave them; but his reasons were So just, and So laudable in a young man who was by nature formed for a lise of pleasure, and So frequently urged, that Mr. Brereton would have injured him, on even offering any kind of opposition to his pursuit: on the contrary, he greatly commended the propriety of his conduct, insisting only upon his coming down to him as often as his leisure would permit him.
Sii*
  4^
Sir Edward russly could not well let slip this opportunity to offer to accompany his friend. Fie was much pleased with Mr. brereton’s pressing him to stay with him still longer; but Mr. monson was obliged, quite against his inclination, to decamp: for Mr. Brereton told him in plain terms, at the entreaty of Maria, that after the neglect; which he had discovered, she never would be his, and that he would never give Cecilia to a man who had been designed for her sister.
When both those gentlemen had left them. Sir Edward applied himself with more Solicitude than ever, to gain the heart of Cecilia, but made no progress: yet though she discovered no love, she felt compashon for his tender complaints against her indifference; and often Said, “Why, Sir Edward, will you persist to “follow me; me, who am not able to “do justice to the merit which you are, “1 cannot but own, possessed of?”
“Had you never Seen my friend, “miss Cecilia, ” replied he, “I might
have had better fortune. I might
^
“have been happy: but his engaging “person, with the effort which he matfo “to preserve a life which I would will“ “with the loss of mine, have “Saved, has won you now for ever.”
“And can you chide me for cherish“ “a grateful remembrance of his hu“ “behaviour for my fake?’*
« No — I cannot chide you for any “thing; butmysweetceciliawill, I hope, allow that the felicity of Wallace was entirely accidental. I might have been “the fortunate man, had I not attended to “your father: I might have preserved a life dearer, far dearer to me than my y own: cold, unkind Cecilia!”
“Do not reproach me. Sir Edward, ” ^ cried she, mildly, “I have the highest “esteem for you; but I cannot avow Sentiments which I do not feel: leave “me, therefore, and go in Search of “another more capable of giving you “the Satisfaction which you vainly re y choir from me.”
la
Mr. W A L L A C E. 4^
In this sort of conversation, they commonly Spent their time when they were together; for Sir Edward could not prevail on himself to quit a woman who, notwithstanding the acknowledged preference which she gave to his friend, was still So amiable in his eyes.
Wallace, as Soon as he was Settled in the Temple, applied most indefatigably to his studies; but in compliance with his friend’s request, came down to him on a Saturday evening, and returned to London on the Monday and tuesday following at farthest. He was always received with great pleasure by the old gentleman, with a kind of transported familiarity by Maria, and a sort of timid regard by Cecilia.
miss Brereton, in order to accustom him to enter into chat with her, and to furnish him with topics for conversation,, frequently gave him, when they were alone, little commissions to execute for her when he left them. Sometimes she insisted upon his writing a line to her by the post in the middle of the week, pretending that she.could not stay till he came
4
down. When thus challenged to write to her, and in the presence of her father, who often Seconded her request, how could he frame a refusal? His letters, however, though written with the greatest poiiteness, were perfectly free from the least, tincture of gallantry: the letters between two ladies could not have been more'innocent; for he only informed her of the punctuality with which he had obeyed her commands. The letters which pasted between miss Brereton and miss Myers, who was, by this lime, returned to her uncle, were penned in an infinitely warmer style.
While he was thus employed in obliging the daughter of his friend, he received a letter from. his eldest sister, which gave him a disquietude he Scarce knew how to conceal.
To Mr. GEORGE WALLACE.
“HOW melancholy have the hours “been, my dear, brother, since your ab“ “asuccessionofdisagreeableevents “have contributed to render them less “Supportable.
  45
To communicate ill news is a hateful office; but that office, unpleasing as it “is, I have undertaken : you must be in formed of it. Sooner or later, and you may, perhaps, put me in a way to mend things, or by your friendly consolations “strengthen my mind, So that the pressure of my griefs may be alleviated.
“Soon after you left us, a physician “from Oxford arrived here, and by his insinuating manners, morel doubt than by his medicinal Skill, has drawn from “my dear father the majority of his pa“ “This desertion, you may be af“ “makes agreat alteration in Such a “family as ours, astheexpences of housekeeping are daily increasing. Our dear “mother silently pines under these dif “appointments, for fear of adding to “myfather’s anxiety, whohas, sheis con“ “by no means merited the altera“ “in his circumstances, by the beha “viour of those whom he had once rea“ “to think were his friends. these “distresses, with their uncertainty on your “account, as the first Setting out of a “young man in life is often precarious, f ‘ tend to lower their Spirits, and fill their
40 ihe itistory or
“minds with a thousand frightful ideas. “Nor are they without their uneasineffes “concerning poor Nancy and myself. I “have, more than once, very earnestly “entreated them to let me go out into the “world in any shape, consistently with the “character of a well-bred young person“ “is willing to endeavour to maintain “herself by her own industry; but I can“ “persuade them to listen to me on this “Subject.
“As to our poor Sister, her increasing “bad state of health renders her utterly“ “of leaving home; and though “I may be wanted to wait on her, and to “asiist my mother, I must be an expense ‘‘ to them. Were I able to gain anything “considerable by entering into Some em“ “I might have it in my power “to make the decrease of my father’s in“ “less felt by him. Join with me, “therefore, my dearest brother, in per“ “our amiable parents to comply “with what, if neglected now, must be “done when I am So unfortunate as to “Survive them; and endeavour to make them think with me, that the earlier I “am accustomed to a kind of life which
“Sooner
  47
Iboner or later will certainly be my lot, “I shall not only with more resignation ^ Submit to it, but be better prepared for the final shock, at being for ever Sepa “rated from them. I can bear to do any “thing that is not unworthy of a daughter of one of the most industrious and ** best of fathers: of one of the mostfru “gal and affectionate of “mothers: but I “cannot consent to lead a life of idleness, “while I see them Surrounded with misfor “tunes; nor can I endure the mortifying “thoughts of feeding the pride and ca“ “of those who may, perhaps, under “the mask of the Sincerest friendship, of“ “to receive me into their houses, in “order to exact the most Servile conde “scensions from me for permitting me to “lit at their tables. No, Brother, my “blood rises at the prospect of a state of “Such mean dependance. A Scanty al“ “of nothing but bread and wa ‘‘ ter, honestly earned with the labour of “my hands, would be a higher feast tome “than the most luxurious dainties insolent“ “Set before me, in the contemptible “character of an humble companion. “Look out, therefore, inquire for me ^ with all possible haste: we have, you
“know.
know, been brought up to make the “greatest part ofourdress ourselves; con“ “I could easily learn the dif “ferent fashions by placing myself with a “milliner or habit maker of eminence and “reputation. You, who are in London, “may easily inform yourself where Such “people are to be found; and let me con“ “you, by the trueaffectionwhich has “always Subsisted between us, to let me ‘‘ have a Speedy answer“
“Wallace.”
P. S. “My thoughts were So entirely “engrossed by our family affairs, that I “had forget to tell you we have lost our “Sweet companion, the dear, the amia“ “Fanny Lesiey: her parents Sent for “her ten days ago: she is gone to the “West-indies. Mr. and Mrs, Edwards “wereingreattrouble at parting with her, and her absencehas had already, I think, “a bad effect upon poor Nancy, whose “Spirits were very much depressed before “by illness and vexation. Mr. Edwards “talks of leaving this part of the country, as he grows very infirm; and my father, “though much against both his inclina“ “and interesf, has advised him, if
‘‘ he
  49
he ever leaves his house, to Settle near “Bath.”
Many times did Wallace read over this letter. Greatly did he admire the nobleness of his sister’s Spirit, but could not bring himself to comply with her request: the agreeableness of her person and her manners filled him with strong objections to the way of life which she proposed, as he but too well knew the dangers to which So amiable a girl must necessarily be exposed in the situation she, from the mere goodneie of her heart. Solicited. The ill fortune which his father had So undeservedly met with, stung him also to the quick; and the concealed anxiety of his tender mother, drew tears of Sympathy from his filial eyes: but, affected as he was, pained as he was, by the united force of So many heavy Sorrows, the postscript' made a considerable addition to them. To reflect chat he should never behold again his lovelyfanny, the only girl whose image was imprinted upon his heart, drew from his bosom frequent sighs, till, ashamed of having given way to the in
vol. I. D diligence
50- The FI IS TORY of
dulgence of his Softening griefs, when he should have thought of Some expedient to relieve the necessities of his family, he endeavoured to drive his mistress, charming as she was, from his memory; but he endeavoured in vain to drive away the train of domestic reflections which destroyed his peace.
miss Brereton, who watched every motion of his eyes, Soon perceived the great dejection which was painted in them; and, indeed, his total difcom posure was visible to everybody who Saw him. Mr. Brereton and Sir Edward alternately Seized opportunities to be with him by themselves, and each pressed him earnestly to open his heart to them; but they pressed him to no purpose: he was equally deaf to his generous friend russly, who, suspect ing that a juvenile attachment might possibly have proved too expensive for his present allowance, emptied his purse before him; and to the prudent Mr.
^ Brereton, who, with all the curiosity of a well intentioned old man, was
not
  51
not less desirous to afford him relief. Neither the one nor the other had any hopes of success, as he attributed the dejection which they had observed, to the illness of his younger Sister, who had been, for Some time, in a declining way.
Mere chance, however, at last, gave Mr. Brereton the desired information, which he would not have had, probably, by his own endeavour to procure it.
miss Brereton, it has been already Said, kept close to Wallace upon all occasions: she, one day, picked up the very letter which had occasioned all his disquiet, accidentally dropped by him; and could not So far curb her curiosity as to shun the perusal of it. To do her justice, indeed, she did not know, when she opened it, to whom it was addressed, as it had been originally enclosed in a cover; which cover he had destroyed : but the part on which she first threw her eyes was So extremely interesting to her, that she perused the D 2 rc
5
remainder with the greatest assiduity: ^ and though Ihe was not of a Soft disposition, like her Sister Cecilia, she could not read it without being melted into tears.
In this Situation her father Surprised her. Having given the letter into his hand, she Sobbed out, “Dear, dear Sir, “what can. be done for this worthy, “this unfortunate family
Mr. Brereton, touched with his daughter’s Sorrow, ran over the letter without replying; and then Said, “This “is a noble minded girl, Maria, the “exact copy of her valuable brother : “let us send for her up to town. She “shall be also my daughter. Do you “and Cecilia look upon her and trust “her as your dearest sister.”
miss Brereton was immediately struck with the word sister; and having been always apprehensive that her father would give Cecilia to Wallace, whenever he discovered her attachment to
him
  ^3
him, cried hastily, “What do you“ “sister, Sir.? You Surely have “no thoughts of marrying Cecilia to «  ”
“Why not?” Said Mr. Brereton: “Can “I give her to a worthier young fellow?
“the Son of my old friend? You ima“ “perhaps, that his want of for“ “is an objection: but of what “consequence is fortune? Have not I “enough for both; and is he not Sensi“ “well made, honest, and Sober?
“Can Such qualities be purchased? Be“ “have I not interest Sufficient to “raise him in his profession ?”
The different changes in maria’s countenance, during her father’s last Speech, not a little alarmed him: could he have Seen what passed in her mind, he would have been still more astonished. E qually unable to bear the thoughts of feeing Wallace married to Cecilia, who was, she knew, ready to accept of him, and to declare the inclination which she herself felt for him; at last, when she had Several times opened her D 3 lips
5  lips in order to Speak, and as often doff ed them, she turned from a deathlike pale to a rosy red, and bursting into a stood of tears. Said, “Why, oh! “why. Sir, will you not let me have “the happiness of calling miss Wall“ “my sister in my own right, if “you really entertain fb high an opi “nion of this worthy young fellow “Why may not your Maria be destined “to make him and herself happy? “Why may you not give my sister to “Sir Edward russly?”
After having pronounced these words with great difficulty, she stopped; and covering her face with her hand, waited in silent confusion for her father’s reply; who, no less astonished than pleased with what he had heard, clasped her fondly in his arms, and Said, “Dost “thou, then, love him, my dearest “girl? And are you as Sensible of his
merit as I am? Look up, Maria; “be no longer ashamed of owning a “virtuous inclination for a deserving “man. Thank Heaven I neither your “person nor your fortune are unwor
“thy
  55
“thyof anyman’s acceptance. Youcan “not imagine what pleasure you have “given me: but tell me, my dear child, “does George know anything of this “thy prepossession for him ?”
“No, indeed. Sir, ” replied the artful Maria; “you may be assured that “I would not take any Such step with out your entire approbation.”
“You are my best girl, ” Said the old gentleman, charmed with her apparent, prudence, and her dutiful expressions; “and if the most deserving and hand“ “young fellow in England can “make you happy, you shall be So.”
miss Brereton thanked her Sather in the most grateful and respectful terms for his indulgence to her; but as she was not quite Sure of Wallace, she told him, “that, as  had, pof “Sibly, no reason to expect Such an of“ “he might not be prepared to ac“ “of it; and that as she had al“ “been mortified by the neglect of Mr. monson, she would be very D 4 y loth
5^ The Hisiokv of
“loth to be refused by the man for “whom they had both So great an es“ “
“Well, well, ” replied the old gentleman, “there is, I believe, no great “fear of a refusal; but I will directly “Speak to him about his Sister; we will
first get her up, and then i’ll warrant “you will not be refused, my girl.”
Maria, before she left her father, discovered Some apprehensions lest Wallace should be hurt by their havingfoundout the Secrets of his family, without his knowledge or consent; but Mr. Brereton took upon him to answer for ail these things; and after having been told, by his daughter, how violently Sir Edward was in love with Cecilia, Sat down directly to his bureau and wrote a letter to Doctor Wallace, wherein he informed him of the great regard he had for his fon, that he designed him for his eldest daughter, and entreated him to Send up miss Wallace, whom he would, for the future, look upon as one of his own children
The
.   57
The worthy physician and his wife were absolutely astonished at the receipt of this letter; and in the fullness of their hearts gave all due praises to the Almighty, who had So providentially interposed in their affairs, when they themselves found it very difficult to form any advantageous Schemes; and, having acquainted their daughter with the friendship of Mr. Brereton, bade her to prepare for her immediate depar, ture.
miss Wallace, who dreaded nothing So much as a life of dependance, discovered, at first, no Satisfaction at the news, which had overwhelmed her farther and mother with joy: but as she had ever made it the bnsinefs of her life to obey them, she was now resolved, whatever consequences might arise from her obedience, not to recede from her duty; comforting herself, at the same, time, with thinking, that if anything should happen disagreeable to her in the family of Mr. Brereton, she could, by being So much nearer London, Sooner pursue the Scheme which she had D 5. com
50 1 nc n istory or
communicated to her brother, for the regulation of her future life: but she was quite astonished at not having received an answer from him.
While she was preparing to leave her native village, Wallace, who had only deferred writing to her because he was uncertain what advice to give her, began to think that his silence would be construed into unkind ness; but upon feeling for his letter, it was nowhere to be found. It had indeed been dropped on the morning of his departure from Mr. brereton’s, and he had rode to London without missing it. While he was undetermined whether he should ride back in Search of it, a letter from that gentleman was delivered to him, containing a desire to See him immediately. He was ready to comply with the pressing invitation, hoping that he should find the letter which he missed, in the pocket of a Suit of doaths be had left there. guess then his Surprise when Mr. Brereton met him with it in his hand. He. received his young friend with the most
cor
ivir. vv n. j x ii. IL. cordial affection, and after a short apology for having read the letter, told him, that he had Sent for his Sister to “make a visit to his daughter; that “he admired her Spirit; and that he “would exert his friendship in looking “out for a reward adequate to her “great merit. We will be all one fa“ “” added he.
Wallace, extremely astonished, bowed respectfully, and expressed his gratitude in the best terms he could think of, from the suddenness of the affair; and when he had quitted Mr. Brereton, was met by Maria, who assured him, “that her father had given her “the greatest pleasure by inviting “miss Wallace to town; and that she “impatiently wished for her com“ “
 returned her compliments vrith a respectful poiiteness; but wondered that he had heard nothing of all this from miss Cecilia, nor from Sir Edward; the former, indeed, had not P 6 been
ss
been consulted, and the latter was entirely ignorant of it.
Maria now redoubled every endeavour, every care, to please her destined / husband, while he was lost in wonder at all that pasted. In the midst of that wonder, he received a letter from his father and mother, “wherein they “expressed the highest joy at Mr.
“brereton’s intentions in his favour,
“with his additional kindness to his “sister, who was on her way to town;
“and informed him where he might “meet her at her last stage.” They concluded with Saying, “that they “did not believe he wanted any ex“ “to treat his future, miss " “Brereton, with the most respectful “tenderness; and that they should add “nothing on that Subject, but their “sincere prayers for his increasing felicity.”

^ Wallace was now more astonished than ever; he was all amazement; but too Soon found that he was really designed foi Maria. The letter dropped
from
Mr. W A JL. j i II e n.
'from his trembling hand, at the confirmation of his apprehensions; and having breathed out, with a half Suppressed sigh, “Oh! Fanny, ” he Sunk motionless into a chair.
In this situation he was accosted by Sir Edward, who not finding him anywhere below stairs, came to look for him in his own apartment.
Wallace rose at his entrance, picked Up the letter, and alked him, “how “long he had been acquainted with “this design of their old friend’s, to “marry him to Maria.”
I heard of it but yesterday, from “Cecilia, ” replied Sir Edward, ‘‘ who had just then been informed of it herself.”
Cecilia had, indeed, been first acquainted with it by her sister; and with the utmost difficulty was able to conceal the emotions which it occasioned; emotions which she could only conceal by retiring hastily to the garden;
where.
02 ine itistory or
. where, deeming herself unseen, she gave a free vent to her sighs and her tears, and could not help thinking, that as her father had not looked upon w^’allace as unworthy of being his Son, she might herself as well have given him that title as her Sister, who, if Mr. monson had not changed the object of his affections, would have been dif posed of before, and have left her a lone for the man of her choice.
Sir Edward, who closely followed her steps, caught her thus giving way to her vexation; and as she was in a state of the utmost consusion, extorted the Secret from her, the disclosure of which made her see no bounds to her complaints; and those complaints So Sensibly affected him, that he told her, after having in vain attempted to Soothe / her Sorrows, he was Sure Wallace preferred not Maria to her. “Doatingly “as I love you, my dear Cecilia, ” continued he, ‘‘ I will freely con Sent
to resign you, if by that resignation ‘‘ your felicity will be insured. I will ' y go directly to my friend, and tell him
y how
  63
“how much he is esteemed by you,
as I firmly believe that Mr. Brere “tonne, if he can but make him his Son“ “will not care to which of “his daughters he is married.”
Cecilia, shocked, beyond expreshon, at the indelicacy of Such a proceeding, ran after him, stopped him, entreated him to come back, and desired him “to Seal up his lips on that Subject, “unless he had a mind to See her ex“ “with shame before him.”
Sir Edward, who was only impelled by a noble eagerness to Sacrifice his own happiness for the promotion of hers, though he certainly wished to have effected it in a way more pleasing to himself, desisted from his design, at her earnest request, and Solemnly Swore not to divulge the Secret which he had discovered, either to his friend, or to any other person.
In this manner did the amiable Cecilia preserve her delicacy, at the ex pence of her love; and Sir Edward
en
0
endeavoured to be Satisfied, though she would not promise to be his, in not Seeing her become the wife of another. But this unexpected event, and the agonies which she had Suffered by the concealment of her sensations, shocked her Spirits So much, that she fell into a state of dejection, which was too visible to everybody who beheld her, and which Sir Edward, ever attentive, ever assiduous, about her, tried with the most unwearied diligence to remove.
In a few days after these transactions, the time arrived for the departure of Wallace to meet his sister, in Mr. brereton’s post chaise. The interview between the brother and the Sister was very affectionate. When she told him of her dread, with regard to the tyrannical authority which women of Superior fortune are apt to exercise over those whom they countenance by their patronage, “he begged her to make “herself easy, and ashired her, that “he would be always watchful over ^ her, and take care to Secure a rev
treat
  65
“treat if she was treated according to “her apprehensions.” He then as freely opened his heart to her, and declared, “that he hardly thought it ho“ “to marry a woman for whom “he felt no inclination, merely with a view to Serve his family by her ' “fortune.”
“Why, that is not your view, ” re -- plied she; ‘‘ Mr. Brereton proposed “this alliance to my father, in order “to make his daughter happy by “uniting her to a man, who is, by his virtue, capable of rendering her So. “As you have not Sought her, you are “entirely free from the imputation of any dishonourable designs; and as “she is a fine young woman, and “loves yon, in my opinion you stand “a fair chance to make both yourself “and her happys’
Wallace replied only with a sigh, which he strove to stifle in its passage; and his sister Spent the rest of the time, whilst they were together, in trying to reconcile him to what she plainly
law
00 me riistory or
Saw was the joint desire of their pa’ rents. “I want not, ” Said she, “my dear brother, to persuade you to act “contrary to your inclination in So “very important a point; but let me “advise you to weigh it well, and though“ “consider every circumstance “concerning this affair before you de termine how to act.”
Fie promised to follow her advice, and rumsinated in this manner upon the Singularity of his condition : “dis “agreeably situated as my family are at “this time, can I hope to give them “assistance during the course of many “years, if I refuse this advantageous “offer; the refusal of which will “doubtless be attended with the irre “trievable loss of Mr. brereton’s “friendship? I have, it is true, hitherto “felt no Sort of passion for Maria; yet “she is certainly formed by nature to “inspire love in a bosom Sensible of her “beauty; she is certainly partial to “me, and if 1 refuse her, shall I not “ruin myself and my family, without the Smallest hopes of gratifying my
“in
  67
- inclination for the amiable Fanny, “Supposing fortune and her heart alike “favourable to me? Is she not far re“ “from me? Am I not igno. “rant of the place to which she is “gone? And, were I to .find her out, “may she not be destined by her pa“ “to whom also I am a stranger, “to the arms of another? May she not “be actually the wife of a man, “who may be possessed of a heart, “which, were I master of every “wished advantage, I may possibly be never able to obtain? And is it not “infinitely better to marry a woman “by whom I am certainly beloved, than one whom I only love my ‘‘ Self?”
All these queries and replies were revolved a thousand times in his mind, while his Sister Sat Silently waiting by his side, for his determination. He at length told her, “that he would com“ “with the wishes of all his friends, “and endeavour to make the lady not “repent of her choice.” Gratitude also for the great civilities just intended
6
ed for his dear Eleonora, had no Small stiare in this resolution *, and he assured her that she should ever find him a friendly brother.”
During the above conversation, Wallace mentioned not a single word which discovered the most distant regard for miss Lessey; nor did Eleonora imagine that he distinguished her from any other young lady.
When he brought his sister to Mr. brereton’s, the two young ladies, as well as their father, ssew to receive her with the greatest affection. Maria and Cecilia were both struck with her first appearance; but they were both struck in a different manner. As miss Wallace as nearly resembled her brother as a woman can resemble a man, Maria clalped her to her bosom with a tenderness which she would have shown to Wallace himself, if female modesty had not checked her: but Cecilia, startled at the extreme likeness, and feeling at the Same time a consciousness pf the impropriety of her loving what
was
ivii. yy j: X j t Juj XX jux. wy
was nevertheless So truly amiable in her eyes, shrunk back at her touch, and trembled all over when she received her Salute, which she had no power to return; and had she not been Supported by Sir Edward, who was close behind her, she would have Sunk to the floor. A look which she directed towards him, as he led her to her Seat, discovered what passed in her heart; while she pleaded ill health, to apologise for her behaviour to the company.
miss W alsace was almost oppressed with the politenesses which she received from the whole family into which she was introduced: and, notwithstanding the graces of her manner, and her natural complaisance, would have been rather at a loss to return them if her brother had not assisted her; who, in doing So, mingled more gallantry to Maria than he had ever yet shown to her. This improvement in his carriage not only raised her Spirits, but elevated thole of her father; and nobody was inclined, in the little party,, to be Serious but poor Cecilia. Sir Edward, indeed, was also,

yo 1 nc mstoky or
also, from the agitation of his mind, less cheerful than the rest of the company; though, as he was now certain that his Cecilia could not be Mrs. Wallace, he had Sometimes hopes that time might stand his friend, and make a change in his favour.
The evening pasted away in general conversation; but the next morning, ' when Mr, Brereton, accompanied by Maria and Wallace, had conducted miss Wallace into the garden, and pointed out to her the beauties of his retreat, he stopped at a little temple near the house; and there, while the friendly old man Sat between the brother and the Sister, he Said to Eleonora, after he had received a very pretty compliment from her, on the elegance of the rural Spots around them; "‘lam glad you “are pleased with my retreat; it may, “one day, be your brother’s, if he is in “the Same mind. I look upon you, the “daughter of my good old friend, as my own daughter, and upon Wallace as my Son: What Say you, young man?
y What
ivir. vv A n JL. A e LI 71
“What Say you, Maria? Are you will“ “George, to become my Son“
“must ash this lady’s permission“ “” replied Wallace, with an un usual colour in his cheeks which heightened his manly beauties, and with a modesty of aspect: and of voice which rendered him absolutely irresistible; then turning to Maria, and taking her hand, “May I hope. Madam, ” Said he, “that your father’s uncommon ge“ “proposal meets with your ap“ “? If you honour me with an “affirmative answer, you will lay me “under obligations which I shall never, “I fear, be able to repay; but I will “make it the study of my life, to de“ “your partiality in my favour.”
miss Brereton threw down her eyes to hide the Sparkling Satisfaction which shone in them, and with a voice which perfectly indicated the absolute content she enjoyed, replied, that she had no will but her father’s.
y Mine,
7
“Miine, then, -’ Said Mr. Brereton, “is, that you both do everything in “your power to make each other hap“ “for the remainder of your days. “The ceremony shall be peifformed as “Soon as the necessary writings can be “drawn; I will give my girl twenty “thousand pounds down, and five “thousand more on the birth of the “first child; and you, turning towal “lace, shall make a proper Settlement: “with this, and with the business I “can bring you into, I fancy you may “do pretty well.”
Wallace, with the most respectful humility, ‘‘ declared that these favours “were greatly beyond his expectations; “that he was entirely at a loss how to “express his gratitude for them, but “that he would endeavour to deserve “them.” He then kissed maria’s hand; and upon the coming up of Sir Edward russly, Mr. Brereton informed him of his friend’s intended marriage; and Sir Edward ventured to embrace that opportunity to ash Mr. brereton’s consent to gain the affections
of
vir. vv A JL Vx IL. 73
of his Cecilia; assuring him, “that “if he could but be one day So hap“ “he would desire no fortune, but “resign it all for the advantage of his y friend and miss Brereton.”
The old gentleman praised his generosity, and told him, “that he requir “ed no Such proofs of his love, but “that he hoped his youngest daughter “would not be infensible to the com“ “which he paid her.”
Sir Edward, transported to have met with So much success with the father of his Cecilia, went in Search of her; and having found her on one of the benches in the garden, in a melancholy attitude, he Sat down by her, and taking her hand. Said, alternately trembling with hope and fear, “Can you, miss Cecilia, pardon me for what “I have just been doing? I shall, I “trust, merit your forgiveness, when “I tell you, that while there was the “least probability of your being giyen N ‘‘to the man of your heart, I restrain y ed from making any application to vol. I. E y you
‘‘ your father for the possession of your “hand. consider now, my Sweet Ce“ “how disagreeably you will be “Situated by having your sister con“ “before your eyes in enviable “circumstances, and indulge me with “an opportunity, by consenting to “be mine, to convey you to a place “where you will be Sole mistress of “everything about you: let me have “the animating Satisfaction to contri “bute to my lovely cecilia’s pleasure
and amusement; to preserve her from “every vexation, every care; and to “give up my whole time in order to ‘ ‘ make her life uninterruptedly happy.”
Cecilia started, at first, at hearing that he had Spoken to her father; but the mention of a Separation from him Soon awakened every tender thought; and she replied, in mournful accents, “What “happiness can you propose to enjoy, “Sir Edward, in being possessed of a “woman, who, cold and insensible to “all yourendeavourstopleaseher, who ■ “sighs! — Oh my shame!” continued she, covering her face with her handkerchief :
chief: “let me not even think of it.
‘‘ But, indeed, russly, lean nevermake “you happy: you have my best wishes;
‘‘ but alas! you have not my heart She wept as she Spoke these last words through mere compassion to her lover, who had need of all his fortitude to check his Sympathising Sorrow.
When she had a little recovered herself, he, with the most persuasive eloquence of love, entreated her only to consent to become his wife; declared that she should be her own mistress in every respect, as much as she was at that moment; and assured her that he would wait patiently till time had wrought a change in his favour.
A deep sigh was her reply, which, though not entirely Satisfactory, was not » entirely discouraging; for as she had not in positive terms granted his request, neither had she in those terms denied it. He, therefore, from being acquainted with the Secrets of her heart, having many opportunities to entertain her without the interruption E 2 of
j j X Liy.^ xxxox\ai\x \ji
of a third person, employed every private moment in Soothing her tender ‘griefs and diverting her melancholy reflections; and he employed them So Successfully, that she, in a little while, not only sought his company, but cared for no other. Yet was not any love mixed with the friendship which she frankly avowed for him.
Wallace, in the mean time, paid his court to Maria with lb much address, that everything was in the greatesb forwardness between them: yet he never neglected his business to wait on the lady, for which diligence her father warmly commended him.
As miss Wallace was quite a stranger to London, miss Brereton made it her business to introduce her to every place of public diversion; to which, as they were but a few miles from town, they could easily be conveyed: Cecilia, however, could never be prevailed on to make one in their parties. She chose rather to sit at home with russly by her ffde, and to give way to Soft dejection,
in
  7/
in which he freely indulged her, hoping that by encouraging her Sensibility, he might himself, one day, become the Subject of it.
One evening, at the Opera, miss Brereton and  were accosted with great poiiteness by Mr. monson; who, though he addressed them both with his voice, fixed his eyes So earnestly on miss Wallace, that he threw her into confusion: : perceived it, and immediately relieved it, by turning them to another part of the house; but the beauty of her person, and the amiable expression which appeared in her countenance, gave him • a pleasure which he wished to renew. He, therefore, made himself of their party for the rest of the evening, much against the inclination of miss Brereton.
There was So striking a resemblance between miss Wallace and her brother, that monson would immediately have known her, if the appellation of sister had not been frequently Sounded in his ears; but it gave him Some con e 3 cern
y
cern that she was So nearly related to him; for though he had an esteem for Wallace, on account of his agreeable qualities, he knew that his fortune was very Small, and consequently imagined that his sister’s could not be large. Besides, her residence at Mr. brereton’s rendered it difficult for him to become acquainted with her, as he had by his behaviour to Maria excluded himself from any connexions with that family. However, he made the best use he could of the present moment; and found, upon engaging her in conversation, that her good sense was equal to her beauty: he also took a proper opportunity to compliment Wallace on his having So amiable a relation; and in leading her out, gave her Sufficient reason to believe that he had not beheld her with indifference.
Eleonora, though of a Serious and Sedate disposition, was far from being an infensible; she could not help thinking that Mr. monson was the most agreeable man she had ever Seen. He was really handsome and genteel, and
his
  79 his conversation was pleasing and entertaining; nor was he naturally of a sickle, inconstant temper, though he appeared to be So. He loved miss • Brereton extremely, before he went abroad; but time, during his absence, had occasioned a great change in the two sisters, and had robbed Maria of numberless graces to bestow them upon Cecilia: yet, upon finding that he could not Soften the heart of the latter to love, he would have, rather than disoblige his father, who was he knew indifferent about the Sisters, taken Maria : but, as she had fixed her heart on Wallace, she availed herself of mon son’s incertitude to get rid of him: and he had just reconciled his father to the disappointment when he met with Eleonora, with whom he was infinitely more charmed than he had been with either of the miss Breretons: but how to get her was the point, and in what manner to attack her. He could not think of marrying a woman with nothing, while his father was alive.
E 4 During
S
During the agitation of his mind upon this occasion, miss Brereton was employed in taking notice to Wallace of his monstrous presumption in joining them; and of letting shis Sister know, how very impertinently, as she termed if, he had behaved in their family.
miss Wallace, having been So lately introduced among them, and therefore quite unacquainted with what had pas sed, Said nothing to the vehement charge against Mr. monson: but could not help Secretly wishing that he had been mentioned in a more favourable manner. Very Soon was she Sensible of the difference between the two sisters in their dispositions; and could not but wonder. Sometimes, that her brother had given the preference to Maria: however, as she never Saw anything in his looks or behaviour which discovered the least inclination for Cecilia, she, one day, when they were quite alone, almost inadvertently expressed her Sentiments, tho’ very distantly to him, upon that Subject. “I consess, my dear Eleonora,
” Said he, ‘‘ that there is Some
  St
thing very amiable in miss Cecilia; but as I looked upon these ladies, from my first acquaintance with them, far beyond my hopes, I did “not give myself leave to indulge a Serious thought about them; and as “I found Soon afterwards, that my friend was excessively charmed with Cecilia, that discovery would have “checked ipe, if I had ventured to “form any bretensions to her. Be“ “as Mr. Brereton himself fixed “upon his' eldest daughter, I could “not, you know, frame any ob jectioh.”
Eleonora, as she had marked some •thing in the dispofition of Maria which was not agreeable to her, thought it more prudent to make no reply, and was therefore Silent.
When everything was just ready for : he performance of the marriage ceremony, Mr. Brereton was Seized with '■an apoplectic sit, which carried him off in a few hours.
E a3
8
As this Unexpected and melancholy event caused a general Sorrow and confusion in the family, the ceremony; it may be supposed, was retarded by iti Cecilia and Wallace grieved with the utmost sincerity for the loss of the father and of the friendi Maria, though She had ever been distingtsilhed as his favourite child, and had So lately received Such strong proofs oflsis attention to her happiness, felt not So much concern as they did at his decease, nor was that concern of So long a duration as might have been rationally expected. She appeared, indeed, before company, to be violently afflicted; but when Ihe was only with her intimates, her countenance was enlivened with its usual chearfulness. She even went So far as to declare her Surprise at her lover’s dejection, and attempted to laugh him out of it, ashing him, “how he,, who “was no way related to her father, “and who had not known him long“ “be So prodigiousty afflicted?” ** As I was known to him So little a “time, madam, ” replied he gravely, “I am the more obliged to him. The
“con
  83
“confidence which he has reposed in “me, does me the highest honour; “and my heart will be ever warmed “with gratitude for Such unmerited ‘‘‘ esteem.”
“If you are conscious that it was “unmerited, ” Said she, “you pay my “father’s memory, I think, but an ill “compliment, by affronting his dis “cernment.”
“Not at all, ” answered he, brishly, shocked at her reply; “I pay him the “greatest compliment in believing, that from the uprightness of his own “conscience, he supposed a Similarity “in mine, and therefore invested me “with the most capital of all trusts, “his eldest daughter.”
'As she took these few concluding words to be complimental ones, she made noi answer to them; but her whole behaviour, after the death of Mr. Brereton, did not give Wallace the most favourable opinion of the wo e.6 man
ss
man who was Soon to become his wife.
Sir Edward russly, also, had reason to lament the death of his friend; for as Soon as cecilia’s grief began to Subside a little, she flattered herself with fresh hopes concerning Wallace. She well knew the capriciousness of her sister, and imagined, that as she had now lost the only person who had any right over her, she might very possibly change her mind; and that Wallace, if refused by her sister, would not be averse to her.
Animated by this self flattery, she redoubled her civilities to him and to Eleonora, who being very much pleased with her gentle disposition, strove, in her turn, to make herself agreeable to miss Cecilia.
Sir Edward,, who Soon perceived this change in her, and perceived it with regret, ventured one day to mention it to her t she was extremely hurt
t>y
  %
by the emotion which she felt at his having taken notice of it; but could not refrain from Saying, “Ah! how “can I help esteeming the man who “Saved my life at the hazard of his y own!”
About this time the uncle of Mils Myers, whose illness had occasioned her departure from Mr. brereton’s,, died, and she returned, at the invitation of Maria, to keep her company, as winter approached,
miss Brereton, who, like other girls of her gay, pleasurable complexion,, had never been fond of Ipending a winter in the country, now complained heavily of the tediousnefs of the evenings, rendered more melancholy by their recent loss, and proposed to take lodgings in town till the return of Spring. Her proposal was warmly Seconded by Mils Myers, but not at all relished by Cecilia, who preferred the tranquillity of their retreat to the bustle and tumult of London; but as Maria had been, accustomed from her cradle
to, i
Bb The history otto
carry everything with an high hand? Ihe determined to execute her Scheme; and Cecilia, having easily prevailed on miss Wallace to be with her, chose to remain where she was.
The death of Mr. Brereton had made it necessary for Sir Edward Rufsly to quit the house, though he was. still a constant visitor to Cecilia, who, when Wallace was absent longer than usual (for he frequently came down to see his sister) went to miss brereton’s lodgings, where she had a chance to find him.
Mr. monson, vrho since his interview with miss Wallace at the Opera,, had stretched his faculties in order to contrive a method to see her again, upon maria’s removal to town, the only person whom he wished not to See, took a lodging in the Same village, and walkecl perpetually about the house in hopes of beholding the new object of his affection; but he was for Some time unsuccessful in his walks; At last, on a fine morning, as she and
Cecilia.
xyxl. X.. V yy
Gecilia were returning home from a ' short excursion in the neighbourhood, he accosted them, and endeavoured by every art he was master of, to render himself agreeable to miss Wallace, and was happy in his endeavours beyond expectation. By his dexterity and address he So insinuated himself into .the favour of both the ladies, that fie easily found admittance into the house, on the footing of a former acquaintance of Mr. brereton’s; as Cecilia was too much taken up with her grief for the loss of her father, and with her prepossession for Wallace, to pay a minute attention to proprieties. But Eleonora vas not So inattentive to the movements of Mr. monson; she Saw plainly that his design was to, make himself agreeable to her, though she could not immediately penetrate into his views by the assiduity of his behaviour; and he was himself at a loss how to declare them to a girl whose appearance was strictly modest, and in whose air and manner there was a dignity which, at first sight, discouraged all indirect approaches.'
monson a
E
monson, however, well knowing that though he was in love almost to distraction, his father was So determined upon his marrying a woman of fortune, that nothing on earth could shake his resolution; and as well knowing that his present income was not Sufficient to defray the expenses of matrimony in the style of life he wished to Support, was So awed by the virtue and discretion of Eleonora, and allured by her personal attractions, and the charms of her conversation, that he could not tell how to act. Passion at length dissipated his doubts; and he wrote a letter to her, wherein he declared the ardent love he felt for her; and lamented the avarice of his father, in terms too obvious not to be misr taken.
Eleonora was doubly hurt by So dishonourable a letter, as she really liked the man; but believing that she ought not to conceal from Cecilia any part of his conduct, though it would pain her to disclose it, she carried th? letter to
her. 1
  Sp
her; ‘‘ See, my dear friend, ” Said she, “how perfectly right miss Brereton “was when she mentioned Mr. Mon“ “as a person no way desireable as “an acquaintance. I show it to you, ” continued she, “before I burn it, that “I may not lie under the imputation “of ill breeding, by refusing to See him if he calls here with his usual “familiarity.”
Cecilia highly commended her prudence, and ordered the Servants never. to admit him. Her injunctions were not too Soon delivered, for he made his appearance that very afternoon; for though he dreaded a Spirited rebuff, he was impatient to hear how his letter had been received; and though he was apprehensive that Eleonora would be denied, he felt her denial as the most mortifying disappointment he had ever met with.
Finding it impossible for Several days to gain admittance, he dodged them in their walks, and attempted, more than once, to join them; but
they
g  they shook him off immediately, and fled to the house for shelter from his importunities. This behaviour of theirs, however, though it damped him extremely, did not discourage him. Whenever they stirred out, he pursued them. To be thus perpetually haunted by him, became very disagreeable to them; and as both  and miss Brereton had been informed of his impertinent carriage, they advised them to come to town.. For the advantage of her friend, Cecilia complied with their invitation, tho’ she did violence to her inclination by leaving the country. The way of life which miss Brereton and miss Myers, her now inseparable companion, led, was indeed by no means Suitable either to Cecilia or Eleonora, as they had not So high a taste for the flutter of the world : both of them, could they have been happy with the men of their choice, would have lived contented in any part of the world agreeable to them; but as they had no hopes of being fettled to their Satisfaction, they had a feriousnefs of aspect which made
them.
  91
them appear very different from Maria, in whose Sprightly countenance the love of pleasure and admiration was painted in glowing colours. Far better, indeed, would Wallace have been pleased with her, if she had more re iembled Cecilia and his sister; but her pride and violent Spirit, which could not brook the least control, rendered her every day less and less amiable in his eyes; So that the approach of his marriage, from which he had never expected any felicity, silled him with the most disquieting sensations. But honour, to which he religioussy adhered, as much as the fear of making his parents unhappy, by missing what appeared to them So very advantageous a match, prompted him to ratify his engagements with miss Brereton, whose behaviour to him was unexceptionable, as her attachment to him was rather strengthened than weakened by the death of her father.
Maria more than once dropped hints as if she wished that he would give up all thoughts of business, sinc e
her
0
her fortune was now fifteen thousand pounds more than her father had offered to him, even with the additional five thousand cn the birth of a child; but though forty thousand pounds was a very Sufficient Sum, a prodigious one, indeed, for a young fellow who had nothing, Wallace, with a proper Spirit, chose to improve it by his own abilities and diligence, that he might not entirely owe his Subsistence to his wife; he therefore endeavoured to wave all conversation upon a Subject which might, he thought, draw them into a dispute; and, that she might not be un easy, he gave up more of his time than he would otherwise have done in attending her to public places.
In every place where miss Wallace, accompanying Mils Brereton, made her appearance, Mr. monson also appeared, and Seemed to be So truly enamoured with her, that her heart was most Sensibly touched by his constancy, though she took particular care that neither her looks nor behaviour should make her emotions visible; but
not
vir YY XX A jli Tjl W j j#
notwithstanding her apparent indifference, and the frigid civility with which she received his approaches; notwithstanding the frowns of miss Brereton, who discovered the utmost astonishment at his exquisite assurance, as she called it; he still persevered in Seizing, with the most vigilant assiduity, every moment to be near Eleonora, even only to look at her, when all his most respectful attempts to Speak to her were frustrated.
The end of the FIRST BOOK.
L yp j THE
HISTORY
OF

BOOK II
WALLACE, (from whom the letter, mentioned towards the end of the last book, was concealed, lest it might be attended by a duel) tho’ miss Brereton and his sister were Ib cold in their carriage to Mr. monson, behaved to him with his usual goocl manners; and monson, after having met with repeated rebuffs in an evening from the mistress of his heart, frequently whispered to her brother,
‘‘ Oh!
J. 11^ x.jidjlujk.x kji.
“Oh! Wallace, why is your dear sis“ “So lovely, and So cruel ^ or ra“ “why is it not in my power to make her offers which Ihe might, “without a blush, accept of, could I “but be happy enough to render myself agreeable to her?
Wallace, who really wished to See Eleonora well married; who Saw that monson was not disliked by her, and who had, from his first acquaintance with him, been greatly pleased with him in his heart; wished that he had no reason to make those queries; but generally told him only, with a good-natured linile, that his Sister was obliged to him.
From day today he thus went on, and Seemed not to live but in her sight. His steadiness in pursuing her, his languishing looks, full of tenderness, always fixed upon her, though Surrounded by the finest women in the kingdom, at length drew sighs from her, when she thought that her emotions would not be perceived, and Secretly
ivir. VY A n A C il. 97
cretly wished, that it was proper for her to indulge the inclination which she felt to pity him.
. In this situation they continued till the first mourning for Mr. Brereton ' was expired : Wallace then pressed Maria to make preparations for their marriage, to which request she readily agreed; and Sir Edward, at the Same time, strove by every Soothing art to prevail on Cecilia to follow her sister’s example. But he found his every art ineffectual: though Eleonora, of whom she was very fond, and who knew not her Secret attachment to her brother, pleaded earnestly in his behalf, telling '' her, ‘‘ that she might never again ' “meet with a 'man So completely
‘‘ formed to make her happy.”
I can live single then, ” Said Cecilia.
‘‘ Yes, ” replied Eleonora, ‘‘ but “you are young, without a father or “a friend proper to give you advice; and you may hereafter fix on a man vol. I, F not
90 ine itistory or
“not So deserving as Sir Edward. “Young women, my dear, are the “most Secure when they are happily “married.”
“Is that your real opinion, my dear “Eleonora ?” cried Cecilia; there “may then be Some hopes for Mon“ “
Eleonora blushed like Scarlet, and by So doing discovered what she would have concealed, if possible, even from herself; while Cecilia was too much taken up with her own thoughts to attend much to those of her friend.
Sir Edward, however, continued unweariedly to urge his entreaties. He promised So often, and with Solemnity, that she should live exactly according to her own taste, and even have a Separate apartment entirely to herself, if she insisted upon it; that tired out, at last, with his importunities, convinced of his great merit, and the strength of his affection for her; and believing that it would become almost criminal in her
to
  99
to harbour an inclination for Wallace, when he was the husband of her Sister, she began to make a flattering alteration in her behaviour to him.
Sitting one day by eleonox a, with Sir Edward on the other Side of her; Sir Edward, on miss wallace’s having mentioned Something relating to the approaching ceremony between Maria and her bi other. Seized that opportunity once more to persuade, ' to entreat, to implore his lovely mistress to consent to be his, when miss Brereton became Mrs. Wallace. She Sat Seemingly inattentive to all that he had Said, till the last words dropped from, his lips: it roused her. Starting from her seat hastily, without ever thinking that she was on the point of betraying her Secret to Eleonora, flse criecl, No, I “will never stay to hear her called by that name. There, Sir Edward, there is my hand : in a fortnight my “sister is to be married, in ten days “I will be yours; you will promise to “carry me dow n directly to oxford shire, and will permit me to live in F 2 ‘‘ that
, 10 .
“that retired way which I prefer to “all the company, all the diversions “in the world.”
The transported Sir Edward, who was astonished at this unexpected consent, and the manner in which it was worded, prepared to reply with the raptures of a man intoxicated with joy. “Llold, Sir edward” ” she, “I know what you would Say. I believe that you love me sincerely at “present; but you can only prove “your constancy, by complying with ‘‘ my requests when I am your wife. “If you can bring yourself to comply “with them, as you are, in my opi on, the truest friend I have in the “world, I will endeavour to reward “your love; but it must be the work “of time.” At the conclusion of this Speech she hurried out of the room, and left him and Eleonora equally astonished at her, though in a different manner.
As Cecilia had an excellent heart, she determined from the moment she
had
'ivir. vv i. juju IL. loi
had agreed to marry Sir Edward, to do everything in her power to render herself deserving of him. It was, indeed, with no Small difficulty that site brought herself to resolve to marry him; but when she considered that she could expect no happiness in living with, or near her sister, to be perpetually exposed to the sight and conversation of Wallace; and that she could not shut herself up with Eleonora, because; she So nearly resembled her amiable brother; she Saw no prospect of ^ felicity, but with Sir Edward russly, who had So long, and So tenderly loved her; who had faithfully kept the Secret which she had discovered; who had indulged her in all her little foibles about Wallace; who had contributed to amuse her embarrassed mind by a thousand attentions; who had promised that she should live, even when she vas his wife, in every respect as she pleased; and that he would never See her but when the sight of him would be agreeable to her. The last stroke of complaisance touched her extremely. Considering F 3 also
10
also that if she determined to marry him, she should pay him the higher compliment, by giving him her hand before Wallace was irrecoverably lost to her; she took that Sudden resolution to fix the time four or five days before that wshich would cut off all her hopes.
After having Spent about an hour in her own apartment, reflecting on the probable consequences of the step which she had taken, she returned to her lover, with a more cheerful air than she had when, she left him. On his expressing his transports upon the occasion, and pidluring the delight which he should feel in trying to make every hour of her life happy, “Only keep “your word. Sir Edward, ” Said she, “and carry me into the country as Soon “as I become yours. I have nothing D further to fay.”
miss Wallace, Surprised at the odd ness of her behaviour, attempted, though with all the delicacy of friendship, to rally her a little upon the strange ab.. in her behaviour: but finding
that
  log that she made no reply, and that her raillery did not extort a Single Smile from her, she left her with Sir Edward, and retired to her own room.
Sir Edward would have taken advantage of this fortunate moment to consult her about Several things relating to the necessary preparations for the approaching ceremony, but she desired not to hear of them, saying“ “she “should be ready, and doubted not “but that he would be So too.”
There was one Subject, however,
'about which his extreme generosity would not Suffer him to be negligent, though she had not once thought of it. He went immediately to his lawyer, and ordered a Settlement of two thousand pounds a year on her, to be drawn up with the utmost expedition, lest any accident should happen to him before it could be executed: he also made his will, and left her an equivalent. He then informed her of what he had done, and site thanked him for his generous care of her, adding, “that she neither F 4 ques
104 Th History of
questioned his liberality nor his love “at that time; only, ” continued she, with Some emotion, ‘‘ remain my friend.”
“Your friend, my Cecilia!” cried he; “Gracious Heaven! can I ever cease to “be your lover and your friend No, “to the last moment of my existence ' “shall I be both.”
He was proceeding with the most rapturous expressions and Solemn promises; but she stopped him, and telling him that she had rather hear him upon any other Subject, turned the conversation instantly by asking his opinion about a new book, which he had brought to her a few days before. All indifferent, ' however, as she Seemed to be, she did not forget to order linen, doaths, c. Suitable to the occasion to be prepared for her, and Suffered Sir Edward to inform her Sister of her design in his favour.
Maria lifted up her hands and eyes, and laughed at the unaccountable conduct of Cecilia. miss Myers also, who
was
ivir* vv i jlx j_i IX Him
was become her almost constant companion and humble copier, echoed her mirth upon the occasion.
Wallace, who had not had the least idea of her motives, and who, had he been left to his free choice, would have preferred her to her sister, thought her proceedings rather uncommon; but was sincerely rejoiced that his fhend was likely to be happy.
While they were thus employed, Maria, by keeping late hours, and hurrying from one Scene of pleasure to another, fell sick of a fever, which Soon rose to siich a height as to be pronounced by the physicians very dangerous : in that fever she was carefully nursed and. attended by Eleonora, as miss Myers was at that time gone home for a week. Cecilia also was very attentive about her Sister, though Sir Ed -- ward, who was in perpetual alarms lest she could catch it, entreated her not to confine herself too closely to the lick chamber, and watched every movement of her countenance, fearing there F 5 should
i
should be any change in it: there was, indeed, a change in it very fooii; for the concern which she felt on Seeing Maria in that condition, and in So short a time after the loss which she had already Sustained, gave a shock to her gentle Spirits too violent to be concealed.
Sir Edward, whom she repeatedly assured that she was in perfect; health, and who did not believe that she was So much affected at the illness of her Sister, as she had not discovered So much love for her, began to fancy that he had found out the real cause of her Sorrow; which he imagined must have proceeded in a great measure from her having engaged herself to him; and from her thinking that if miss Brereton should not recover, Wallace would be again at liberty. This reflection was a dagger to his heart; but though it pained him So Severely, he was determined to act nobly, whatever he Suffered by his resolution. One day, therefore, while he was Sitting by her, when she was in tears bn her sister’s account, he Said, “Do not give way,
-
ivir. lu“
“dearest miss Cecilia, to a Sorrow “which must injure your health, if “thus indulged; nor do not think So “meanly of me as to believe that I will “not readily Sacrifice my felicity to com“ “yours, though you are underen “gagements to me; for be assured, that if miss Brereton should not recover, “and if Wallace should be once more free, I will resign you,, though Such ‘‘ a Surrender be attended with the loss of my peace, and though my life “be endangered by it.”
She looked at him fixedly for a moment, and then, giving him her hand. Said, “Generous russly, this is too “much; I did not expect, nor will I ‘‘ accept of Such a proof of your ef “teem; never will I marry a man “by whom I am not freely chosen. But there is one thing. Sir Edward, which you will not, I am Sure,, from “the nobleness of your Spirit, refuse me. If my Sister should die, poor “Wallace will meet with a great dis “appointment with regard to her for tune, unless she leaves it to him, of F 6 ‘‘ which
luo X XXIO X X \JX
which I do not ^llieve she thinks “about; let me, therefore. Sir Ed “ward, by your friendly hand, make “up this loss to him.”
She could say no more; tears prevented her from going on; while the enraptured Sir Edward Swore upon her dear Soft hand, to comply with every the ssightest hint of that kind from her; but as miss Brereton recovered Soon aftewards, things proceeded in the way intended.
On the day first appointed. Sir Edward invited his friends to his ma.rri age. Cecilia was punctual. She was dressed elegantly plain; she was only adorned with Some of the jewels which her 'lover had presented to her; they were very brilliant, and she wore them in compliment to him. She, a few days before, obliged miss Wallace to accept of a bank note, that she might provide a dress Suitable for the occasion.
The
mr. vv TV jfi VIL. 109^
The new Lady Rufsly appeared with a calmness and composure extremely agreeable to her husband, who was all tenderness and transport.
As Soon as the ceremony was over,, the post chariot attended at the church door, according to her request. Having, taken leave of her Sister, and wished her happiness; having wished also happiness to Wallace, who, for the first and last time, modestly Saluted her; she threw her arm round miss wallace’s neck, and Said, “Farewell, Eleonora !■ “May you be as happy as you^deserve “to be.” She then stepped hastily into the chariot, and did not cast another look at her brother.
Sir Edward, who adored her person, and was charmed with her resolution, ^ Seated himself by her fide. During the journey he behaved with all the affection of a husband, joined to all the tenderness of a lover.
They stopped on the road to take refreshment, and afterwards to dine..
She
11
She ate little, but appeared easy and cheerful, though she looked exceed ingly pale. Upon his giving loose to the joy which he felt in being possessed of her, “I will do all in my power, ” Said she, “to make you a Sociable
companion; but do not expect: too “much from me.”
In a few days afterwards, miss Brereton was married to Wallace : at his desire, they retired to the honse where he first Saw her, and which now belonged to him. He was polite and respectful, and affunied a tender behaviour proper to the occasion, which, through the force of self flattery, she believed to be sincere, and returned it with great fondness. miss Wallace and miss Myers attended them to the village, to which monson immediately followed her.
Eleonora, who truly loved Cecilia, felt a real Sorrow at her departure : she. had now no creature to whom she could open her bosom, but her brother; and as. she imagined that he was very
fond
  in
fond of his wife, whom she could not esteem, she concluded that he would have little leisure to listen to her. miss Myers she by no means liked. Their tempers, indeed, were So totally different, that they could not possibly be Suitable to each other : she therefore Spent hours and hours alone, walking in the gardens, which were exceedingly pleasant, as nature was in all her vernal beauty. They were laid out in the modern taste, and many parts of them were bounded by hedges, cut in Such a manner as to admit a view of the distant country, beyond the fields.
Having wandered by herself, one evening, to the bottom of a long grass walk, she Sat down upon a circular bench under one of the venerable oaks which Surrounded her. On that bench the stuttering of birds roused her from the reverie into which she had been plunged. Observing a tint remarkably beautiful in the plumage of the father of the little feathery detachment,
• as he stew by her into the tree, - she stepped upon the Seat in order to have
a nearer
112 me jtistory or
a nearer vi^w of him : and So intestt was she in making her observations, that her foot slipped, as she was near the edge, and she fell upon the grass.
The violence of the fall stunned her for a moment; but when she recovered, imagine her Surprise, at the sight of monson endeavouring to raise her from the ground in his arms.
She Screamed with terror and astonishment; and as Soon as she could find words, alked him how he came there, and begged him to let her go.
“Not till I am assured that you are “not hurt, Miss Wallace, ” Said he.
“I am not hurt, ” replied she, hastily“ “do pray leave me.”
“Do not be offended with" me, my “dearest miss Wallace, ” Said he, leading her to the bench, and sitting down by her; “but condescend to hear me “one moment. Unable to live with ‘‘ out Seeing you, ” continued he, “of
y hear
  113
“hearing about you, when you left “the town with your brother and sis“ “I came hither also in hopes of “meeting you in your walks, or at ‘‘ church, or even of catching a mo ‘‘ mentary glance as you passed me in ' the coach; and as love has rendered “me uncommonly diligent to get near “you, I have, within these few days, found a way into the fields adjoining S' to these gardens, and have, more than once, gazed on you vrhile you. “Sat here, as you thought unobserved.
Ardently hoping that you would “return thither this evening, I had just - “cccupied my station behind that tree,
“when I Saw you fall. The terror ‘‘ which Seized me, lest you should have “received any harm, made me re“ “of everything; and I leapt “over the hedge to give you assistance, not staying to consider that you “would be both Surprised, and, per“ “angry at the liberty which I “had taken. My fervent love, my “tender anxiety for your Safety, threw “me off my guard, and occasioned y this my Sudden appearance before
“you.
I
“you, which you will, I hope, when “you reflect upon the motives by “which I was actuated, pardon.”
Eleonora listened to this Speech of her lover with her head drooping, and she trembled from the violence of her emotions. When he paused, she just lifted up her eyes towards him, and Said, “I thank you, sir, for the assist ‘‘ ance which you have afforded me, “and entreat you to leave me, ”
‘‘ I will, madam, ” replied he, “I “will go, since you insist upon my “immediate departure, as you as“ “me, that you are not injured by “your fall : but yet, miss Wallace, ” added he, stopping and looking tenderly on her, “May I not be permitted “to flatter myself that you would re“ “honourable proposals from me? “I blush to think that I ever pre“ “to offer any other. Oh! miss “Wallace, ” continued he, finding that she made no answer, “Do I Sue y for an unreasonable permission?” ?”

Mr. WALL LAC IL. 115
Eleonora was silent, because she was really unable to open her lips. His persisting in Spite of all her indifference, to love, and to follow her; and his anxious care for her Safety, together with the tremor which interrupted his articulation, lest she should be too much offended with him, touched her to Such a degree, that she with the utmost difficulty concealed her Sentiments. A deep sigh first issued from her agitated bosom, in Spite of her efforts to suppress it; and upon being earnestly re urged to Speak, she turned from him and burst into tears.
This behaviour distracted monsoh, who did not in the least guess the meaning of it. Having thrown himself at her feet, and implored her forgiveness a thousand times for appearing in that attitude before her; she at last, with a weak voice Scarce to be heard. Said, “I am not angry now, Mr. Mon“ “but let. me beg you to leave “me.”
“I will.
i
“I will, indeed I will, miss.wd “lace, ” replied he; “but whence arise those tears ^ They'pierce me to “the Soul; they must certainly have “been occasioned by Some Secret “Sorrow which preys upon your ‘‘ mind. Would I might know! “would I could dry them! But I am “too importunate; it is my anxiety “for your peace which makes me So : it is nothing but the ardour of my “love for you, indeed it is nothing else. I would rather die than give “you a moment’s disquietude; but “I cannot bear to See you unhappy.”
Eleonora, finding that he did not offer to stir from her, rose up in order to leave him. He stepped after her, and caught her by the hand. ‘‘ You are “going, ” Said he, “and will not “Speak to me; you weep, and you will not acquaint me with the “cause of your tears. What must I “think of this mournful silence, miss “Wallace
‘‘ No
  117
Nothing, ” Said she, with a Sigh. Her face was covered with blushes, while she drew away her hand, and ran down the walk, leaving him with his eyes fixed on her as long as they could See the object of their admiration.
When she reached the house, she gave directly a free vent to the unea siness which the unexpected presence of monson had excited; and while she condemned the indiscreet proceedings of the lover, she esteemed, nay even felt, a sort of affection for the man.
Frequently were her disquieting reflections renewed; for frequently did she see him pass by the house, Sometimes thrice. Sometimes oftener in a day, and she hardly ever stirred out without meeting him; but he never attempted to Speak to her. By these reflections her Spirits were very much lowered, and the manner in which she lived at her brother’s did not contribute to raisetthem.
As
i
As Soon as miss Brereton became Mrs. Wallace, miss Myers, at her invitation,
accompanied her down to H -- -- -- -- -- --;
and by her artful behaviour and gross flattery made herself So very necessary in the despicable character of an humble friend, that she could not exist: a moment without her, especially when Wallace was at his Chambers, where he constantly and assiduoussy attended. So Successful were the endeavours of miss Myers to please Mrs. Wallace, that she frequently received little presents from her, which, as she had but a Small fortune, vrere very acceptable, by enabling her to make a more elegant appearance than she could otherwise have done. But as miss Wallace was also still more in need of those little civilities,, and as the Sister of her husband was still better entitled to them, Maria divided her favours among Eleonora and Die Myers. As the division of her favours, however, was not at all agreeable to the latter of those ladies, who chose to be possessed of everything which miss Wallace had to bestow; she began to
think,
  itg
think, that she could only hope to be the reigning favourite, by lessening the merit of Eleonora in the eyes of her Sister, till she made her Situation too irksome to be Supportable. When she had by artful insinuations and oblique hints carried her point, and drove Eleonora out of the house, she should govern Maria, she imagined, just as she pleased.
While miss Myers was forming Such designs, an unlucky occurrence facilitated the execution of them.
Mrs. Wallace, though extremely fond of her husband, endeavoured, before they were married, to persuade him to decline all business, as her fortune was large, and the marriage of her younger sister with a baronet had, notwithstanding that fondness, more than once forced a wish from her, that she had married a gentleman, at least, if not a title.
This wish was treasured up by the ■ penetrating miss Myers, and she
availed
120 Ihe History or
availed herself of it in order to forward the prosecution of her Schemes. With the most refined dexterity she endeavoured to Sow distention between Wallace and his Sister; and as Maria always flew to her upon any little disgust either to her hushand’s behaviour or to the carriage of miss Wallace, she never failed to side with her against them, magnifying every trivial fault which file discovered in them, till it became too flagrant to be endured. To irritate Mrs. Wallace the more, she tried to put her out of conceit with her situation; made frequent mention of Sir Edward and Lady russly; told her, “that site always thought Sir ed ward was a mighty pretty gentle man, was certain that my lady must “be vastly happy with him, and Sup“ “that her ladyship would come “to town in the winter; not doubting; “but that Sir Edward would comply “with everything of which her lady“ “approved.”
Expressions of this kind, generally accompanied with Smiles, or rather
Sneers,
  121
Sneers, at all that either Wallace or Eleonora Said or did, and with endeavours to turn them into ridicule, tho’ in So artful a manner that they could not well Seem to be offended without appearing very ill natured, brought Mrs. Wallace by degrees to follow her example; but miss Myers often pushed her Satirical vein So far as to force him to quit the room. Whenever he, test himself too much hurt to stay with her, she cried, even before Eleonora, if she remained behind, “bless me! Sure Mr.
“Wallace cannot take what I Said “amiss; I protest I only meant to
rally him; but Sure he cannot take “it Serioufiy : people must be mon“ “captious, indeed, who are “offended at Such trifles.”
these hints, together with the observations which they obliged her to make on the most minute circumstances in the behaviour of her husband and Sister, raised in the mind of Maria, Suspicions and jealousies, distrusts and surmises, for which there was not the (lightest foundation, and which would vol. I. G pro: '
12  probably never have entered into her head, had they not been instilled into it by the malicious ingenuity of miss Myers; who, in a very short time, had the Satisfaction to sind that her Schemes had Sufficiently disquieted Eleonora, who, being pepetually on the Spot, Saw and heard more than her brother, though he Saw and heard enough to be greatly displeased with the conduct of his wife’s companion.
In order to' render Eleonora still more disagreeable to Maria, miss Myers appealed to her upon wallace’s refusal to comply with everything required by his wife, though he treated her both with tenderness and respect, and alked her, ‘‘ If she did not think “that her brother was to blame, and
how she should like to be So treated “by an husband?” ?” upon her making no reply, as she was fearful of having her words misinterpreted, added, “Aye, I See by your Silence what “your thoughts are.” And when she leit the room laid, “Did you observe “how Sulky Mist Wallace looked,
y and
Mr. WALL ALL. 1*3
and that she would not Speak; she ‘‘ fancies, I suppose, that her brother “is always in the right, and was pro ‘‘ yoked at me for taking notice of his “behaviour.”
these, and a thousand other Speeches, of the same Sort, whofted Maria, already but too much inclined to feel dis pleasure at her hushandst manners, though she still loved his person, and animated her to oppose him perpetually. Vexed, however, as he was at the treatment which he received from her, he dropped not a Single word with wshich she could reasonably be offended : nay, when he Saw her in a capricious and wilful humour, he strove to Soothe her, and to Smile her into a better mood; and often would he certainly have made an agreeable alteration in her carriage to him, is miss Myers, who began to grow weary of the dull amusements of a village, had hot inspired Maria with a contempt for So stupid a place, by wondering that she was not tired of the Same thing over and over again, and that she would bury herself alive, when G 2 there
124 Ihe irlistory or
there were So many places of public diversion, as Southampton, bright helmstone, Tunbridge, cc. to make the Summer pass away with chearfulness and Spirit.
A tour of this kind was highly relished by Mrs. Wallace, who really led but an indolent and muzzy life. After having therefore yawned out approbation of miss myers’s lively hints, she told her that she would Speak to  about them. She did So, when he returned to her in the evening; and his answerwas, that he had “no objection to her going to any of the places which she mentioned.”
“But you must go with me, ” replied she.
“It will be imposhble for me, ” Said he, “to accompany you : for I “have So many papers to examine af“ “this term, in order to prepare them for the next, that I shall have ‘‘ no leisure for pleasijrable excur “Sions.”
Aye, ”
  125
“Aye, ” replied she, “this is the consequence of your following that “odious business. I really think, “that the fortune I brought, Mr. “Wallace, was Sufficient to hinder “you from being ever confined, like “a poor mechanic, who comes down “late on a Saturday night, and hur “ries away to town on the Monday “morning, almost as Soon as day “breaks. There is not, I am Sure, “the least necessity for your plod“ “on in this plebeian manner, ”
“Nay now, my dear Maria, ” Said he, endeavouring to Smile her into complacency, “you give one of the “most learned prosessions a very low “appellation indeed. Do you ima“ “that the Chancellor, the judges, ctc. look upon themselves “as plebeians, or that they appear to “anybody in So degrading a light? “Many of them have risen from lower “parts of their profession than I have yet practised.”
G 3 What
12
“What does that signify, ” Said she, “I hate all business : I would have you ‘‘ live like a gentleman upon your fortune.”
Everybody allows my profession, “to be genteel, ” replied he; “I would “willingly rise in that, my dear, and ‘‘ improve your fortune, instead of decreasing it by living entirely upon ic“
“if I am contented, ” Said she, “and want no addition to it, chooff ing rather to live quite independent— —
independent, ” interrupted he : “the man who Subsists by explaining “the laws of his country, who is ready to see that justice is done between “man and man, and who freely em“ “his powers for that purpose, must be, certainly, independent.’*
“Pshaw, ” cried she, ” how you de“ “in giving a wrong turn to my words : you know very well what I “mean.
“mean. I would have you give up business
entirely.”
“And why should you have Such an “aversion to business? If your father “had been of your way of thinking, “you would not have inherited Such a “fortune, nor have made me happy : “and should I deserve to be So, my “dear Maria, were I to neglect; my “duty in the Same profession? It is “my highest ambition to tread in his “steps, and to form my conduct by “his example; whose probity, honour, “and diligence, were his shining ac“ “The daughter of a “counsellor cannot, I hope, be hurt, “by being a counsellor’s wife.”
As he was just then called out of the room to a neighbour who waited for his opinion, Mrs. Wallace made no reply; but the moment he was gone. Mist Myers laughed, and Mrs, Wallace felt herself not at all pleased; she rather peevishly demanded the cause of her mirth.
g4
“I could
XZO I Ilk. XXIOIUKX kji.
“I could not help Smiling, ” Said she, “to hear how  reproach“ “you for being the daughter of a “man of business, that he might put “a stop to your teasing him to live “like a gentleman.”
“Did he So ?” Said Maria, firing at this innuendo; ‘‘ but he had better
“have kept his reproaches to himself.” “What say you, miss Wallace ?” added miss' Myers, turning to Eleonora, who Sat near them at work, from which she had not once lifted her eyes, lest any of her most irinocestt looks should be misconstrued.
“I say nothing, ” replied she, do “not understand these things.”
“Yon won’t understand them, ” Said Maria, haughtily. “You know well “enough that I am in the right, only “you must be on your brother’s Side, “to be Sure.”
As this was the Severest Speech which she had ever addressed to Eleonora, it
affected
affected her extremely; though she strove to suppress her feelings. She made no answer, but the change in her countenance Sufficiently discovered the sensations which maria’s Speech had occasioned. She went out of the room Soon afterwards; miss Myers then failed not to throw out Some ill natured remarks upon her Silence and departure.
Eleonora, upon her return, found not only a particular coolness in her Sister towards her, but a great propensity to thwart her husband in everything which he happened to offer, while increasing Smiles of triumph very disagreeably enlivened the features of miss Myers. By these observations, Eleonora was extremely chagrined; the more So, because, though she Saw through the little infernal arts of miss Myers, she was afraid to communicate her ob* servations to her brother, as she was So high in maria’s favour, lest She might, by So doing, create a difference between them. She more than ever wished to be removed from a house in G 5 which
i lie xjilstuky OI
which she was, she plainly perceived, every moment liable to a negligent and contemptuous, if not an absolute ill natured treatment. This wish she most earnestly wanted to impart to her brother, and began to give Several hints; but he did not receive them in the manner she desired: for as he clearly Saw the prodigious influence which Die had over his wife, and had no opinion of her principles, he chose to keep Eleonora with Mrs. Wallace, that she might be Some check upon her. these Sentiments, however, he carefully concealed from his Sister, only encouraging her by the kindest behaviour to her when he was at home, and by furnishing her with money more than Sufficient for her expenses, to bear her situation with patience; but all his affectionate attentions could not render her Situation tolerably easy; as both miss Myers and her sister continued to torment her by the most injurious methods they could think of.
During her persecutions, the elder brother of Mr. mqnsonst father died
without
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -.
without childen, by whose death a title and a considerable addition to his fortune devolved to him. Upon this acquisition, the young gentleman threw himself a Second time at his father’s feet, and entreated his permission to marry miss Wallace, hoping that he could now Spare him an allowance adequate to the Support of a family.
“And do you imagine, ” replied the new baronet, with an haughty air, “that * “I shall now consent to your marrying “the daughter of an obscure country “physician, whom I before thought “beneath your notice. No, I have “much higher views for you : yet if “you behave in a manner to please “me, I will make a Settlement on you Suitable to your fortune and expec “rations. But be assured, at the Same time, that if you dare to entertain the most distant hope of marrying “So much below your rank, I will “prevent your receiving a shilling of that fortune which you are entitled ‘‘ to by inheritance at my death/’
G 6 mr
Mr. monson, shocked and intimidated with this Severe answer, made no reply; but waited with Submishve patience, till Sir Robert had performed his promise; after the performance of which he wrote the following letter to Eleonora.
To miss W A I. L A C E.
“Madam,
“AFTER having in vain tried every “method to Soften my father’s flinty “heart, and to induce him to give me “new life, by consenting to let me offer my hand and fortune, together “with my heart, to you; I shall be driven to despair if you persist in “refusing me the earnest request I am “going to propose to you; a request, “by the proposal of which I am “however pained, because I wish ar“ “to act in a far different man ner. I tremble while I write. So “fearful am I of being repulsed; but “as the felicity of my life depends “upon a favourable answer front you,
!! cancan
you blame me for trying to “move you in my behalf?
“My father, though he will not hear “of my marrying the woman for whom “my soul languishes, has Settled a “thousand pounds a year upon me. I “hope, therefore, that it is in miy power “to make you happy, madam, as you “must be Sensible that you are that love ly womian, in making you mine for “ever by a private marriage; private “only with regard to my family; for “your brother, and any other relation “of yours, whom you choose, shall be “present at the ceremony; and they “shall also be trustees for five thou“ “pounds, which I will immedl “ately deposit in their hands, for your “use, if any accident should happen before 1 am able to do more for you. “The place of your residence shall be “your own choice, and you shall live “in the manner most agreeable to your “inclination; for your own sake, as “well as for mine, keeping our union “Secret, till it may be prudently avowed.
y I am
“I am but too Sensible, miss Wall“ “how infinitely this proposal is “beneath your merit, while I make “it; but you will, I hope, do me the justice to believe, that next to the “poffessing you, I wish for nothing ‘‘ more fervently than to have it in my “power to acknowledge you “every “where for my dear, my beloved “wife; and to raise you to that rank in the world, to which you will, from “the charms of your person, and the “number of your amiable qualities, be “a distinguished ornament. I entreat ‘‘ you also to consider that, by thus ‘‘ yielding to my tenderest wishes, you “put yourself in the way to inherit “everything to which I have any pre tensions though were everything ‘‘ of which my family is possessed at ‘‘ this moment, laid at your feet, it “would bear no proportion to the fe“ “which you would confer upon “me, by giving me a right to call you “mine for ever.
‘‘ You may perhaps be Surprised at, you may perhaps be offended “with
ivir. yy XX xj jrx ^ n.. 135
'‘ with what I have written; but reflect ‘‘ upon the misery which I shall certainly “feel, if my request is not complied “with; and let compassion, which must Surely inhabit a bosom So gen tie as yours, prevail on you to give “me every opportunity to endea “your to increase the felicity of .your “life.
‘‘ I need not, I trust, add, that I wait with the utmost impatience, and not without Some discouraging “apprehensions, for the receipt of “your answer. Could I but make you perfectly acquainted with the “agitation of my mind, I flatter myself, miss Wallace, that pity would, for once, urge you to a decision in “favour of
Your ever devoted “humble Servant,
« T. M O N S O
'P. Sj
P, S. If my wishes should not meet with success, I will neverthe less reserve myself for you. I leave “you quite free.”
Eleonora received and read this letter with sensations not eassiy to be described. She could by no means bring herself to comply with the contents of it; but she found, by the Situation of her heart, that the refusal would be attended with many painful emotions. She gave it to her brother, and desired his free opinion of it. He read it, and, having returned it with a Smile, Said, “You, my dear Eleonora, are the “best judge how far Such a proposal “is eligible or not: 1 cannot possibly “determine for you in a point wherein your future happiness is So nearly “concerned.”
“Then, ” Said she, after a moment’s pause, “I must reject: his proposal j for neither my honour nor my incli nation will permit me to accept of it!
My
ivir. vv jli JL. 1^7
“My dearest sister, ” replied Wallace, “I guessed at what you was go“ “to Say, and therefore had no oc“ “to be your prompter; you ‘‘ want no advice. Write, however, “your thoughts to your lover freely, “and I will take care to convey them “to him.”
She hesitated a little, and then wrote the following lines :
To r. MONSON, Esq“
“I R,
“THOUGH I cannot possibly approve
of your proposals; as I ima“ “that you intended by them to “confer happiness on me by making “them, as well as to procure what “will, you believe, contribute to your “own felicity, I must think myself “obliged to you; but if you had de“ “ever So little time to reflection “before you wrote your letter, you “would have certainly entertained no y advantageous opinion of a woman,
y who
‘‘ who could prevail on herself to join “cordially with you in deceiving a fa there who has just behaved to you “with So much generosity. Consider, “Sir, that a woman of this disposition “will be capable of treating you in the Same manner, when you have married her, upon the siighest pro vocation; perhaps only from ca“ “No, Sir, I abhor all deceit; “and that I may have no inducements “to act in opposition to the principles “from which I shall, I hope, never Swerve, I insist upon the cessation of ‘‘ all correspondence for the future b.c.“ “you and
“Eleonora Wallace
This letter she gave to her brother, who returned it with an approving Smile, and dispatched it to Mr. monson.
monson, though he expected no favourable reply, was, almost plunged into despair at the demolition of his designs; and as she had, from the day
on
  139
on which he flew to her assistance in the garden, avoided that Spot, he had no opportunity to Speak to her.
During these transactions, Mrs. Wallace and miss Myers prepared to go to Tunbridge; to which place, as the former could not well leave her by her self’, Eleonora, much against her own inclinations and those of her companions, was of the party.
As Soon as they departed from the village, monson, who had informed himself of all their motions, followed them on the wings of love, and had the transporting pleasure to See his dear Eleonora the object of universal admiration; yet he Saw her neither elated with her conquests, nor disposed to turn any of them to her own advantage. As she always appeared Serious, however, nay, rather melancholy, he could not be Sure that Some happy man had not found the way to her heart, or that the pensiveness in her air had not been already occasioned, by
love.
140 The fiistory of
love. He knew not, in short, what to think: he even grew almost wild with thinking too miuch. He followed her everywhere; she could not stir unobserved by him; and he always fixed his eyes upon her in a manner which plainly discovered his anxiety and his tenderness. He became negligent of everything but her; he neither ate nor drank, nor Slept: in his languid looks and pallid complexion was strongly painted the torment which he endured. Yet dying as he was with desire to accost her to alk her to dance, and to treat her with all the polite freedoms usual at Such places, he checked himself;; in So doing, he felt the most uneasy sensations. The fear of displeasing her, to promote whose happiness he would have Sacrificed his life, frequently kept him at a distance from her; and the uncertainty he was in, concerning her attachment to another man, as he wished to be the Sole poiielsor of her heart, half distracted him.
He
  141
He was the most alarmed by Mr. Bladen, a young man of fashion, with an Independent fortune, and next heir to an old uncle, who was a baronet.
This gentleman had been one of the warmest admirers of miss Wallace, from the first day of her appearance at Tunbridge; but as he had been guilty of none of those freedoms which are Sometimes taken by a man of Superior rank and forune in life to the woman wdiom he admires, and had behaved with great respect, she had never treated him differently from the resc of her general acquaintance.
This behaviour of herst, however, though it was no encouragement, was a proof, at least, in his opinion, that she had no aversion to him; 'and as he really was in love with her, he resolved to improve the acquaintance which he ' had made in the family, that he might have more opportunities to endeavour to render himself agreeable to her.
His
14-
His assiduities, in consequence of the force of his passion for her, brought on, by imperceptible gradations, a familiarity between them, which though perfectly innocent on her fide, gave him a Satisfaction which he hardly knew how to conceal. But tho’ he began to flatter himself that a man of his fortune, family, and figure, could not possibly be refused by her, his notions about happiness were too delicate to Suffer him to think of owing it merely to their influence upon the woman of his choice; and he wished too ardently to be personally loved, to hazard an abrupt declaration before he had made Some encouraging discove • ries.
With these views he was perpetually near her; and as his proximity was never troublesome, as he was officious without being impertinent, she was not offended by his behaviour. He was possessed of every conversible talent; and often amuscd her mind when her thoughts were too intensely employed about monson, whose looks alone proclaimed
  143
claimed the passion which he felt for her to everybody but Bladen, who did not imagine, as he neither Ipoke to her, nor danced with her, as he might have done, with no impropriety, in So public a place, that they were at all acquainted, or that he viewed her in a different manner from the gentlemen down there, whose admiration her pleasing person, and the amiable modesty of her manners, naturally excited.
Bladen, thus Situated, was quite inattentive to monson, and quite easy about him. Not So inattentive was monsoh to the motions of his rival, nor So easy concerning him. His continual and permitted, though innocently permitted assiduities about miss Wallace, roused a suspicion in his love pierced breast, that he was the man for whom she heaved So many sighs; that all her melancholy had been occasioned by the inclination which she felt for him; and that the discovery of a returned passion had removed it. The
cheer
14  chearfulness he perceived was not as fumed, for the continual proofs of his constancy for her, made her more Satisfied than Site had ever been; as she began to hope that she should one day be happy with him, if his father died, or changed his Sentiments. If monson had known the true Source of the alteration which he perceived in Eleonora, he would have been highly delighted; but by mistaking the cause of it, he was deeply pained. Nay, he was So immoderately jealous and discontented, that he forgot his generous promise to leave her free to accept of the first advantageous offer which proved agreeable to her; and from a caprice not uncommon in lovers, even in those who love with the greatest Sincerity, instead of viewing her with glances Submissively tender, he looked at her with a coldness and indifference which stabbed her to the Soul.
When they both appeared in the rooms, or on the walks, instead of fixing his eyes upon her with his usual ardour, devouring her with the gaze of
fondness,
mr. vv IV ^ JL. 145
fondness, he turned hastily from her, as if she had filled him with horror; and at a ball, one evening, when she was taken out by Bladen to dance a mintiet, he immediately quitted the place.
Flis departure was not unmarked by Eleonora, who, discreet as ssie was in the management of her looks in particular, and her whole conduct in general, towards him, might properly have been Said to live on his Smiles; she therefore sighed at his precipitate retreat; and as she was at first far from divining the cause of it, a thousand apprehensions concerning his health crowded thick upon her; which were confirmed by his not returning; for though he died with impatience to behold her again, he determined to conquer his inclination for that evening, at least; and on the next morning, upon the walks, just as he was coming up to her, he crossed over to the other fide, purposely to avoid her.
vol. I. H This
This behaviour was too cutting to te Supported. She had passed the night in racking anxiety about his health; and, at the sight of him at a distance,, prepared to receive him with a Smile of satissaction, while her bosom glowed with pleasure to See him well enough to come abroad. But this frigid neglect, this apparent contempt, hurt her So much, that fearing a public detection of her Sentiments, she pleaded a Sudden indisposition, and went home, accompanied by Mr. Bladen, who would attend her to the door.
When she found herself alone in her own apartment, she gave a free vent to her affliction; and after having, with a flood of tears, lamented the cruel change in Mr. monson, began to take herself most Severely to tash, for having ever given way to an inclination which she could not hope to gratify under the Sanction of discretion, and which she, therefore, should have op posed with all her fortitude. “Yet “why, ” Said she, in a Soliloquy,
‘‘ Why
ivir. w A A ^ II 147
“Why did he pretend to love me? “Why did he Hatter me with a belief “that I was dear to him? Had he ‘i been silent, I never should have en couraged Such a hope. I should “undoubtedly have discerned his ami“ “attractions; but I should not “have been So much affected by ‘‘ them. Yet let mo not blame him : “all men will do So. They employ “their talents to impose upon our credulity, and they find us but too “ready to listen to their enticing “language.”
With these reflections, and a thousand firm resolves did Eleonora endea * your to fortify her tender heart against monson; but to no purpose : the soft ness of his former behaviour rose to her memory, and the Sound of his tuneful voice still vibrated in her charmed ear.
In the afternoon of that day, Mr. Bladen came again to inquire after her health. She was alone, pale, dejected, unhappy. Her Situation increasing the H 2 pre
14-0 inc mstory or
prejudices which he had before in her favour, raised his passion to Such a height, that he was no longer master of himself. In a few, but very explicit words, he declared his love, and made proposals which not many women would have rejected.
miss Wallace, though extremely Surprised at So unexpected a declaration, as her pride was not dazzled, nor her heart moved by it, calmly thanked him for the good opinion he had conceived of her; but told him, “that it was really not in her power “to accept of his genteel and gene“ “offers.”
He was at first startled at her chilling refusal; but as Soon as he was able to Speak, made use of all his elocution to prevail on her to repeal So Severe a Sentence, and to pronounce a more gentle one, assuring her, “that he would wait her own time, and that he should think no concession too “great for the acquisition of Such a “heart as hers.”
Her
  149
Her answer was decisive against him : she positively declared, “that nothing “could disiodge the Sentiments which were rooted in her mind, ” and uttered her definitive reply with So peremptory an accent, that he at last quitted her, without being able to learn from her the true cause of his re pulse.
In his way home to his lodgings he met an intimate acquaintance, and immediately told him what had passed between him and iviifs Wallace, expressing all the discontent of a discarded lover; and expressing it with So little circumspection, that it was Soon circulated in every corner of the town; and consequently Soon reached the ears of monson, who was on the walks; and was So much transported with joy to find that he had been mistaken, that he became very angry with himself for entertaining Suspicions injurious to miss Wallace; and accused himself for having been the cause of her abrupt departure from the walks.
H 3 Whil^
j5
While he was thus busied in thought, and walking hastily with his arms folded, and his eyes on the ground, he ran against miss Myers, who bursting into a ridiculous laugh, alked him, “if he had lost his eyes.” He just lifted them up, at So pert an interrogation, and feeing only her and Mrs. Wallace, alked them, “where they had “left miss Wallace, and how she “did.”
“Oh!” Said Die, thinking to vex him, “she is at home, very “ill.”
She was going to add Some farcasi tical reflections upon his conduct, which would not have been very agreeable to him; but he did not stay to hear them.
He ran, he rather flew, to their lodgings, and though he never presumed to visit there, instantly demand jpd to be admitted to miss Wallace.
The
  151
The Servant of the house did not know him; but as he had the appearance of a gentleman, opened the parlour door, without even ashing his name.
Eleonora, who was sitting at a table, in a melancholy attitude, her head leaning on her hand, as Soon as she cast her eyes on him, not being able to express the Several struggling passions which too powerfully agitated her mind, Sunk back in her chair, and fainted away.
monson, alarmed, distracted at her Situation, was going to call for help; when she opened her eyes. Seeing him stand before her, pale, motionless, and Scarce able to Speak, her tenderness for him got the better of the resolution which she had made to give up all thoughts of him for ever; and recollecting only that part of his behaviour which had So deeply disquieted her, she looked at him with eyes suffused with tears, and in tremulous accents, cried, “What did I Say or do, Mr.
H 4 Mon
1^
“monson, to make you shun me “this morning; and why, after “Such cruel neglect, do I See you ‘‘ here?”
‘'‘to implore your forgiveness, ” replied he, falling on his knees, “for “a foolish jealousy, which I shall al“ “reproach myself for, though I shall Spend the remainder of my life “in making atonement for my con“ “want of penetration. Yet “let me Say, my dearest miss Wall“ “that since I have had the hap“ “of being acquainted with you, “I never felt a joy equal to the hear ‘‘ ing, that you esteem me enough to 'Vbe concerned at my folly; though, “at the Same time, I feel the greatest “uneafiness that you should endure “the least anxiety on my ac count.”
She Smiled on him through her tears, while he Spoke, and gave him her hand to raise him; but could not utter a Syllable. Her heart was too full.
He
Mr. WALL ACE. 153 He drew a chair close to her; he held her hands in his; he begged her only to tell him whether she pardoned him : he thanked her for having reserved herself for him; declared, “that “he should be the happiest of men, if “her health and Spirits had not Suffered “too much on his account.”
She listened to him, she looked at him with a transporting emotion, which she had never felt before, to find him still true to her, still fond of her, to an unexpected degree (for his looks were infinitely more expressive than his words); and to find also, that he had never been displea ed with her, but thro’ excess oi love, gave her ioy unut terabie. ^ •.
The joy which she could not articulate, he read with rapture in her languishing eyes: he kilsed the Soft white hands which he held in his, and which she had not power to, withdraw from him."'; •
■ L. ^ HK ■ His
His passion then rising beyond the bounds which he had prescribed to himself, and as he Saw her appear still faint and languid, he ventured to throw one arm round her neck, that she might gently recline on his shoulder. He was just going to take advantage of this love inspiring attitude, by Seizing a tender kiss, when she at once recovering her strength and Speech, cried, rising with her face covered with blushes, “Hold, Mr. monson; I have pardoned what is already past, “but do not presume upon that par don. If all that you ever told me is true; if you still love me with ‘‘ your pretended Sincerity, you must be content to love in the manner “which I choose : you must not offer “to See me but in the way you have “hitherto done; nor must you at“ “to take any liberties, if chance “should produce private meetings be tween us.”
“I will conform, my dear, my be“ “angel, ” Said he, to every. thing which you desire 5 only let me
‘‘ entreat
‘‘ entreat you to continue the goodness which you have already shown to me; still, my Mils Wallace, reserve “yourself for me. I knew not how “much I loved, when I fancied that I “could bear to see you in the arms of “another. Besides, when I thought So, I pre supposed that you would ** be happier with another than with “me. And may I not now fiattet “myself with being the person necessary to your happiness
She Smiled on him; but d«fired him to leave her; assuring him, “that “while he continued to behave as he “had done till he grew jealous, he “should have nothing to fear on her « part.”
He left her In a state of mind easily to be conceived; and his tenderness had So entirely restored her tranquillity, that when her Sister and Die came home, they found no traces of her indisposition remaining,
H 6 thh
This event, and the honourable addresses which she had received from Mr. Bladen, blew the Sparks of envy in miss myers’s bosom, into Such a flame, that she treated her in a manner which would have been absolutely insupportable, if fly had not been just rendered So easy with regard to Mon.. that everything else was of no consequence to her.
When Eleonora and Mr. monson appeared again in public together, their looks had quite a new expression in them : their confidence in each other was now So much increased, that he watched every motion cf her eyes with the niost pleasing attention, while fly, delighted with the agreeable change in him, cast on him, when she thought that she was unobserved, the most bewitching Smiles. Animated by them, he Sometimes ventured, under the favour of, a crowd, to get near her, and whisper a few tender words in her ear, as she passed to steal her hand, and ta, press it, under pretence of assisting her to move from place to place; though
the
the Spiteful Die always endeavoured to discover the little affectionate proofs of their tenderness, and repeat her observations upon them, full of malignity and acrimony, to Maria. She went still farther; she contrived to have Sir Robert informed of the continuance of his son’s attachment to the amiable Eleonora.
When Wallace came down to escort his family to London, his sister gave a minute detail to him of everything which had pasted between her and her two lovers. He only replied, “’tis “pity, my dear, that you cannot approve
of So unexceptionable an of“ “as bladen’s. But I well know,
“that we cannot always make our “inclinations subservient to our in“ “
He Said no more to her; but Mrs, • Wallace mentioned the affair, when they were all together, and Said, “that ‘‘ Eleonora had, in her opinion, acted “very weakly, in refusing Such a pro“ “offer; an offer which a woman
“man with nothing must not expect “to receive every day : but that she “really thought both she and her bro“ “might be called fortunate peo pie, and had it in their power to “make themselves very happy if they V knew how to be So.”
“I am very fortunate, my dear Maria, ” replied Wallace with a Smile, “in possessing your love; and “do I not, by returning that af“ “promote our mutual hap“ “?”
“You have always an answer ready, ” Said she; “but what I Said was more particularly addressed to “Eleonora, who has, I think, acted “very foolishly in neglecting to take “Bladen when he was in the hii * “mour; but, possibly, she may be “glad of him, or of any body by “and bye.”
Eleonora coloured at this reprobf of her sister’s; but Said nothing: white Wallace, who Saw and who pitied her confusion
confusion, replied, “We are not com“ “judges of the motives by “which others are actuated, my dear;
it is therefore hard to condemn her y with So much Severity.”
“Oh! her motives are mighty well known, ” cried she, with a taunting air; “her partiality for that im “pertinent fellow monson, is no Southeast“ “I assfure you.”
miss Wallace was here strongly provoked to reply in a manner that would have occasioned a Scene of altercation between her brother and his wife; but her love for that brother, and her contempt for that wise, only prompted her to turn the conversation, by asking a question quite foreign to the Subject on which they were talking, and to leave the room Soon afterwards.
Wallace, who perceived every day V the ill treatment which his Sister met with, wished from his heart that she could have liked Bladen, while he at the Same time admired her for her sincerity.
censty, in refusing him, when she found that she could nor. He Wished alio to place her in a Situation more agreeable to her, in a family whose behaviour to her would be more Suitable to her merit..,
Wallace kept up a regular correspondence with his father and mother; and as he found that the practice of the former daily decreased, and that his younger sister’s continued bad state of health made their expenses run higher than ever, he caresully remitted to them a very handsome addition to their income; informing them, that he would entirely take his sister Eleonora under his protection; but never made the least mention of the unkindness with which she was treated by Maria and her companion, nor Said a single word of either of her lovers, though there had always Subsisted the strictest intimacy between him and his sister Nancy.
Sir Edward russly wrote frequently CO Wallace, and in all his letters Spake
XVXI. vv j!tl JUJU jtv V JC>. lol
of his Cecilia with a degree of adoration for the charms of her person, and the sweetness of her temper; but never told him that the passion which still glowed in his breast for her, was returned with equal ardour.
As to Lady russly, she Seldom wrote to Maria; and when she did write, her letters were only upon general Subjects; in which, however, she never forgot to mention Eleonora with great esteem.
As the contents of Lady rufsly’s letters relating to Eleonora, were always communicated to her by her brother, for Mrs. Wallace never desired to give her any agreeable information, she heard them with great pleasure; but Sometimes wondered, that as her ladyship had always professed So warm a friendship for her, she had not once invited her to stay with her in the country, But the Same objection to her company remained; her likeness to Wallace; of which objection she wast totally ignorant,
Soon
Soon after the beginning of the winter, Wallace and his wife, at her request, Settled in an elegant house in town; and So infatuated was she still with miss Myers, that she insisted on her being with her as often as she could come to her. Die wanted, indeed, very little preshng; but as she could not procure the removal of miss Wallace, she determined to make her time pafs in the most disagreeable manner.
Sir Robert monson having been told that his Son was more than ever attached to Mlfs Wallace, Sent for him; informed him, that it was, in his opinion; high time for him to marry; and recommended a young lady to whom, had not his affections been engaged, he could not have well made any objection. “Her father and I, ” continued Sir Robert, “have talked over the “matter; and if you hope for my “future favour, you must immediately
make your addrelses to her.”
monson
ivlr. W A L JL A L L 1 bg
monson, whose love for Eleonora every hour encreased, entreated his father once more to pity him, to See the object of his passion, and to consent to his happiness; but, upon receiving an answer totally opposite to his wishes, he rose up and Said, “I have done all, “sir, in not marrying contrary to your inclination, that can be reason“ “required from a Son; and no“ “upon earth shall oblige me to martyr against my own.”
Before this determination of mon son’s, however, was known, miss Myers, ever ready to tease Eleonora, circulated a report in a very positive way, that monson was actually under the most Solemn engagements to the lady whom his father had chosen for him.
Eleonora, though she did not absh lutely give credit to the report which miss Myers circulated with So much confidence, was not unaffected by it. As she shad not permitted him to write to her, and as she had not lately Seen him
acci
10
accidentally, it threw a gloom over her features, which she was not able to conceal. Unluckily too, it happened ' that she Saw him, for the first: time afterwards, at the play, in a box fronting her, in conversation with a very fine young woman, whom busy fancy as fured her to be the lady designed for him by his father.
As her appearance at the play that night was quite unpremeditated, both she and Mrs. Wallace being in company with a lady whose Servant kept places, monson did not in the least expect to See her; and therefore continued chatting to the young lady by his fide, during the greater part of the night; and whenever he turned his eyes towards the box in which Eleonora Sat, she was hid from his sight by being placed behind a very tall woman. But as the singularity of her situation never once entered into her head, she gave him over, and her Spirits were So Sunk by the disappointment, that she could hardly keep her seat.
In
Mr. WALL. A CL i
In getting out, there was a dispute in the passage among Some young fellows who were ripe for a frolic, and obstructed their progress to their carriage.
monson passing by Eleonora, in the midst of this bustle, with the lady to whom he had been attached all the evening, and Seeing her, unexpectedly, as pale as death, and just ready to saint, was excessively alarmed.
Begging the lady’s pardon wshom he was leading out, he darted through the crowd, ssew to Elepnora, and catching hold of' her hand. Said Softly, “My “dear miss Wallace, I did not.. “imagine that I should have had the, “happiness of feeing you this even“ “
He was going to make a tender inquiry after her health; but she stopped him by replying, in a far different tone from that in which she had been accustomed to Speak to him; “No, sir;
“I
i6
“I can very readily believe, that I was neither expected nor desired“
“Heaven! my dearest miss “Wallace, ” cried he, “Why do you “talk in this manner? What has oc“ “the paleness in your disor “dered countenance? Lean on me; let me Support you.”
Perceiving that Ihe could hardly stand, he made an effort to Save her from falling, when She hastily striving to avoid him, Sunk absolutely lifeless into his arms.
This incident distressed him extremely, and increased the bustle; Mrs. Wallace and her company, in the mean time, who were before Eleonora, and who had been divided from her by the crowd, gained their coach. As Soon as they were Seated in it, they dispatched a Servant to look for Eleonora; and Soon afterwards were more Surprised than they had been upon having missed her, to See her feebly advancing.
ivxi. vv J.J jctu V LI luy
advancing. Supported by monson, who half distracted, both at her illness and at her behaviour, alked her tenderly, while he led her along, why she was ib offended with him, and what had So much stuttered her Ipirits.
She only replied with a deep sigh; and he was obliged to leave her in the coach, without receiving any answer to his fond inquiries.
When they came home, Maria, as Wallace staid out late upon business, reprimanded Eleonora for having made her wait, and for having loitered behind with monson, when she knew that he was going to be married to another woiiian.
Poor Eleonora, half dead before, was now quite over powered by the variety of passions which agitated her mind, and retired immediately to her chamber, where she Spent the night in sighs and tears.
In
isii
In the morning, as Soon as ssie thought that her brother was stirring,, she went down to the parlour; and luckily finding him there alone, in treated him to let her go home, telling him, that she was far from well, and that nothing would ever restore her to health.
, Wallace, who was loth to part with her, as he loved, her affectionately, endeavoured to persuade her to remain with shim, at least, till the return of Spring, and not to go and bury herself in the country, in the worst part cf the winter; but she begged So ’ earnestly for her removal, that he, conscious that his house was not So agreeable to her as he wished it to be, at last consented to it, and procured a post-chaise for her, desiring Maria to let her maid go down with * her to attend her upon the road.
As Soon as Eleonora had taken leave of her brother, monson, who had not closed his eyes all night, Sent
up
Vp his name, and entreated to See her; but an absolute denial on her part obliged shim to return home, where he wrote a very tender and Submishve letter, and Sent it by his own Servant, charging him to wait for an answer;; it came shack to his sharids unopened.
i Wild at her proceedings, she made his man watch her every motion; and when he heard of her Setting ost ordered a post-chaise immediately. Before he lest London, however, he called upon Wallace at his chambers; and insisted upon his telling him tha cause of his sister’s abrupt departure, and of her unusual coldness to ^ him.
Wallace Very frankly replied, that she had not even mentioned shis “name, and that she was gone into “the country for the shenesit of the « air.”
“She is ill then, poor girl!” Said monson with a melancholy sigh, which You I. I he
i j\j JL liw j.x10 J. J JX X Jl.
he strove to suppress, ‘V she is, HI; but her mind also is affected. Pray Heaven she may fistd relief by “change of place and air! Oh! ‘‘ Wallace, ” continued he, “my “life is wrapped up in your dear sis“ “
Eleonora, Mr. monson, ” replied he, “is a good girl, and I sincerely “wish, that she was not So much dis “approved of by your family; or at “least, that she had never Seen “you I am afraid that her disap ‘‘ pointment there sits heavy on her “hciart.”
Do you believe that she really es“ “me? Oh my dear Wallace, “could I be Sure of that! — But she “parted from me in anger; and I “shall not have a moment’s rest till “she is reconciled to me. Indeed, “indeed, my friend, I have done “nothing to deserve her anger: it “touches me too Sensibly. I cannot bear it.”
The
  lyr
The alteration in his voice while he uttered the Sew concluding words, convinced Wallace more than a thousand Speeches, that they had been dictated by Sincerity; as he stepped into the chaise, therefore, he wrung his hand, at parting, with all the affection of a brother, and with all the warmth of a friend.
The carriage which he occupied, by the velocity of its motion. Soon came in sight of eleonora’s; but he would not overtake it, because he was afraid of adding to the offence which he had unknowingly committed; however, he followed her to her father’s, who, with her mother and sister, received her with open arms.
monson alighted at the distance of a few yards, at a farmhouse, in which he had ordered a Servant to hire an apartment for him; and indeed Such a step was perfectly necessary to be taken; for the rapidity of the carriage, and the agitation of his mind, I 2 had
X X lie XU 1 S i 'J KY ‘JA
had thrown him into a violent fever. He was carried, to bed immediately, : and in a short time afterwards Dr. Wallace, of whom the good people of the house were very fond, attended. him. His appearance was quite unexpected by monson; for he had not sheen consulted upon the occasion.
Doctor Wallace found his patient extremely ill, though not in the least delirious. As the farmer’s wise, Mrs. dobson, who conducted the doctor into the room, called him by his name, monson started iip in his bed; and when he approached to feel his pulse, Seized him eagerly by the arm, and asked him earnestly after his daughter. '
The doctor, who had been accus tomed to that question from the long indisposition of miss Nancy Wallace, replied, “that she was very ill indeed, and that he had very Small hopes of her recovery.”
Gracious
;
  173^
Gracious God !” cried monson,, in an agony, “is my Eleonora in So “dreadful a situation? What, good “Heaven! what can have causedsuch “a Sudden, change in her
elebnorat’ replied the good old man : “No, Sir, she is well, I thank heaven, only fatigued with her “journey. Are you acquainted with my eldest daughter,, Sir B: ” ' continued he.
“Acquainted, Sir, ” answered monson, eagerly :. “Are you then quite a stranger to my connexions with that dear amiable girl? But “I will inform you of them immediately“
“Sir, *” Said the doctor, laying his hand on him, You are not yet “in a condition to talk; what you have already mentioned has Sufficiently ^ excited my curiosity as a father; but ‘‘ I have too great a regard for you as a patient, to Suffer you to injure I. 3 “yotur
174 Ihe tlistory or
your health in order to gratify it: “on the contrary, I miust insist upon “your not Speaking at all; quiet and “rest being at present more necessary“ “you than physic.”
“But I cannot have a moment’s ease, ” replied the impatient monson, “till I know the cause of my “dear eleonora’s anger; till I hear “that she is reconciled to me. Talk “not, therefore, of rest and quiet 5 rest and quiet are only for the S'' happy.”
"But you will consent, I hope, ” laid the worthy doctor, “to compose ‘‘ yourself 'till I procure the wished information from my daughter.”
‘‘ Yes, yes, ” Said monson, ‘‘ I will “Submit to anything upon those“ “only tell her that I am not in the least conscious of having of“ “her; tell her, that I love her “more than life; tell her, that I wish “to live for her alone. Tell her all
“this.
Mr. vv A XI jli A C n. 175
“this, and if you have really a re“ “for me, bring me an answer“ “ph! remember what I Say; un less you bring me an answer full of cohfolation from your amiable, your “excellent daughter, your pre“ “will be of no Service to me.”
The good old man, amazed to hear his patient run on in this manner, was at first ihclined to think that he vas lightheaded;; upon reflection, nothing was uttered by him to Support that opinion. He therefore ordered Something to promote perspiration, and left hiih do go do Eleonora; but before he quitted the room, monson repeatedly entreated him to return as Soon as he had Spoken to her.
As to Elepnora, she was not in better Spirits than her lover. Appearances were, in her opinion. So strongly against him, that she was rriiserable beyond expression, in believing him I 4 false.
3^
faise. Pained exceedingly by this belief, as she could not stifle her affection for him, thoroughly ashamed of her weakness, and dreading the taunts and jests of miss Myers upon a Subject which she wished to blot from her memory, she could not bear her Situation; the insolence likewise of' that girl, and the unkindness of her sister Wallace, conspired to strengthen the resolution which she had formed to return to her father. But as shon as she began to eicecute her designs, she repented of her precipitate retreat. The fwiftness with which the chaise was. conveyed, instead of raffing her Spirits, depressed' them; because the distance between her and monson was, she thought, by that swiftness increased; and she was, on her arrival at her father’s, taken out of the carriage more dead than alive. Imputing, however, the extreme languor which she felt, entirely to the fatigue which she endured from the journey, he was not alarmed; and as he was immediately Sent for to the sick gesttleman at Mr. pobson’s, he had.
nofi:
not time to observe her real dejection; but when he returned, he was, shocked at it, and began his interrogations, by asking her, if she knew a Mr. monson.
e
Poor Eleonora, though she thought of nothing else, was yet quite astonished at her father’s question, and from a deadly pale, her face became red as Scarlet.
Do not be terrified, ” Said the good old man; “but tell me everything that you know about him; with “which, indeed, I should have been acquainted before.”
She then begged her father and mother to forgive her for having concealed from them an affair of Such importance to her future peace; but told them, “that as she could not “expect to have any advantageous ** connexions with Mr. monson, she was not willing to flatter them with falfo hopes, and wished that she I 5 ‘‘ had
“had strength of mind enough to “prevent her from dwelling upon “Such uncertain expectations herself.”
She then related every circumstance which had pasted between her and her lover, and concluded with Saying, “that her return into the country was “determined on her being assured“ “she had for ever lost him, that “she might try to drive him from her “thoughts.”
As her father and mother found nothing blameable in her conduct, they strove to cheer and encourage her as much as possible, especially the former; though he deemed it more prudent not to Say a great deal in praise of k, till he had heard monson’s account of the matter. He, therefore, rose to ga back to him.
“Will not my dear father, ” Said Rleonora, stopping him, “tell me ** how he came to know anything;
y con
concerning Mr. monson, before he “leaves me?”
“When I come horn again, my ** dear child, ” replied he, “you “shall be acquainted with every “thing; till then, make yourself “easy.”
When the doctor entered Mr. mon son’s apartment, he found him much more composed than he shdught lie would have been: that composure was partly owing to the pleasure which he felt at having met with the father df his Eleonora in Jhis physician, in whose favour fie was at first sight prejudiceel, and partly frorn his expecting to her from’her.
He raised shiniself up in his bed, as Soon as the doctor appeared, and 'cried, ‘vwell, Sir, do you bring “rie any comfort from my dear ‘‘eleonora?”
I am certain, ” replied the doctor, smiling, that were she to lee you in ' ^ I 6
^ this condition, she would be ihca* pable of receiving any consolatiom, Lie down, therefore,, in your bed,, ** and keep yourself warm : when you? “are a little better, I will hear from your own mouth, what pre tenftons you have to my daugst ter.”
monson, as eager to Speak as the doctor was to hear, promised to Siibmit to his regimen, and promote perspiration, if he would but listeja to his story.,.
He then related what passed Betweem him and Eleonora, from his first interview With her, to his leaving her ih the coach. When he mentioned his proposal for a private marriage,, he lamenteddn the most pathetic terms, his inability to db.raore for her diiriiig the life of his father,, and cried out, in the warmth ofshis affedubn, “Hadjt ** been in my power, sir, I would have, made her a queen, ”
J.YJ.A* YY XX jui J # XX V Xli lo Jt
The good old gentleman, was sh snoved with the narrative which he had heard, and with the fervency with which his patient entreated to be assured of his daughter*‘s pardon for the unknown fault which he had committed, that he replied, the tears glistening in his eyes, “My daughter, ** sir, believing you to be faithless,
“and not being able to bear a place “in which everything reminded her of your infidelity, came down in or -- “der to endeavour to drive you from ** memory.” *
“You amaze me, ” Said Monfon j, : ** but will she, dear sir, persist in thusv “trying to forget me, when she is asi ** Sured that I am as firmly attached to“ “as ever? nay a thousand times “more So;. since I find" that she has lamented the ibss of'me. Will you ‘‘ not tell her this, sir? Will you not' “tell her that I can only be happy in “this world, by studying to make here
y sh
Monte
monson had exerted himself in the delivery of his narrative, and his disorder had been So much increased by his agitation about Eleonora, that the doctor was alarmed; but imagining that his disorder had been occasioned only by the uneafiness of his mind, he believed, that the sight of Eleonora would be the Surest remedy. he, therefore, hastened home, and in a few words acquainted her with the cause of monfbn’s illness, and ddiredsher to go back with him, just to convince him, that he was no longer the object of her resentment.
Eleonora, terrified at the intelligence concerning his health, but delighted to find that he came after her, and that, he still loved her So tenderly, mpst willingly accompanied her father, who leading her to the bedside, told him, “that he had brought him the best “rcttorative which he had in his pof “Session; but on condition that he northeast ver attempted to think on her, without his father’s consent. Yoii both,
I See“
“See, ” continued the old gentleman, “love each other; but though 1 am “pleased to find that my daughter ‘‘ has gained the heart of So amiable a “man, who can place her above the “frowns of fortune; the pleasure“ “I receive merely as a father, ‘‘ will not Suffer me to let any part pf “my family disturb the peace of an“ “Gain but Sir robert’s ap probation, Mr. monson, and Eleo “nora shall be yours; on no account “will I consent to the Seducing of any “child’s affections from his parents “nor will my girl, I am Sure, ever become your wife upon Such “terms.”
Eleonora having wept both from joy and grief; joy, to see her lover again, grief, to see him So very much: indisposed; Sat down by him, and giving him her hand, begged him to take care of his health..
“If you are no longer offend ed with me, miss Wallace, ” replied.
J J J. 41w JL J. 4
CD he, “but will promise to b ** I shall recover immediately“
“is very plain, ” Said the fathq*, that she is no longer angry; but as “I do not approve of her entering into any engagements of So Solemn a nature, without the consent of all “parties; she will not, I am certain, ^ “urge my compliance with your re quest, especially when she reflects upon the great impropriety, as well as injustice of an opposite conduct. You were both contented when in town to continue upon the present ** footing; you are now Satisfied witte each other, be persuaded, there“ “to remain So situated', till time ** has wrought a change in your fa vour.”
As Eleonora heartily assented to her father’s prudent Sentiments; monsom did not venture to oppose them at that juncture; but receiving great Satisfaction from the tender looks of Eleo
nerai^.
  185: Bora, and from her gentle persuasions: to attend to nothing but his recovery, he Saw her depart with her father with more composure than he expected to have felt upon the occasion..
While he was every day gaining new strength, both the doctor and Eleonora wrote to Wallace an account of ash that had pasted; who had himself just at that time received a piece of news of a very difagreeablfe nature, the death of Sir Edward Rufsly, who expired in a few days, after every remedy had been taken to Save his life.
Lady Rufsly, though she never felt that affection for her husband witsh which he would gladly have inspired' her,, sincerely lamented his decealc, as he had ever behaved to her in the most unexceptionable manner,, and had constantly endeavoured, by every Species of tenderncts and regard, to snake her happy. She regretted his
1065.
i The History. of
loss, however, not as he was a fond husband, but as a Sincere friend, who alone knew” every Secret of her heart: as Such a friend, therefore, his loss was considered by her as irreparable; and the remembrance of his extreme generosity, which was always alive, as he had left everything to her, gave her perpetual disquietude; she could not also help reproaching herself for not having been able to return his love in the manner he wished, though she had never failed to take every method in her power to drive Wallace from her memory.
Actuated by the most prudential motives. Lady russly had, while Sir Edward lived, offered great violence to her inclination, by not inviting miss Wallace to come and stay with her; but the death of her husband gave a new turn to her ideas; and as the days and hours became very irksome, as she had no Society near her, to exclude the intrusion of melancholy reflections, she thought that she might,
with
  187
without any impropriety, ash Eleonora to Spend a few months with her. S he, therefore, Sent a very obliging letter to her. Supposing that she was at her brother’s; which letter he directly forwarded to her, and which, as Soon as she received, Sne communicated to her father and mother.
‘‘ Nothing, my dear child, ” Said the doctor, “could have happened “more fortunate. Accept of this in ‘‘ vitation by all means. You will thereby have an opportunity to “be grateful to the daughter of a “man to whom your brother is in“ “for everything he is possessed “of, and of removing yourself from “Mr. monson for a time; the dearer he is to you, the more reason you ought to have to wish him well with his father. There can be no happiness on either side, Eleonora, “when parents and their children are “at variance. He is now recovered. “We will persuade him to return to ‘vtown. By being near Sir Robert,
“and
s8
“and by embracing every opportunity “to please him, he may increase his “natural affection for him, and make “him in time, if he has the least generosity of dispofrtion, desirous of show ing all possible tenderness to a Sort “who has never been deficient in his duty to him. There is more to be gained by mildness and patience, “my dear, than you imagine : it is “always, at least, worth while to try those methods, which often conci liate the most perverse tempers,, which force only renders more ob“ “and if, after all, nothing “should prove effectual, you will have “the eonsolation to know, that you were not accessary to a breach be“ “a father and his Son; that you, on the contrary, by quietly acqut escing with Sir robert’s inclination,, ^ and by resolutely refusing to become the wife of his fon, without his en“ “approbation, not only cement “their union, but raise yourself in Sir “robert’s opinion. By Ite doing you y will certainly deserve the honour
whkhi
ivir. vv iil jli jlj jl. i o,
« which he refuses to confer upon you;
“and if your lover is worthy of you,
‘‘ and the man of sense I take him to be, you must inevitably improve upon him also, and strengthen his “pashon for you by a discreet resist ance to it.”
Eleonora, who truly revered her father, listened to him with a dutiful attention, Subscribed to the justness of his Sentiments, and promised to obey him exactly,
. In consequence of that promise, she wrote immediately a respectful let.. to Lady Rufsly, and prepared for her journey.
Monlbn, who was now well enough to go to London, at his next visit at the doctor’s, became acquainted with all that had passed, and was strongly urged shoth by him and his daughter to return to town. It was Some time, however, before the latter, who, though she strove to conceal her inquietude from
her
igo ine nistorv or
her lover, and Spoke nobly concerning prudential reasons,, cc. trembled as she Spoke, could prevail upon him to be compliant; but on her expatiating upon the hopes which there might be of Softening Sir Robert, by a Seeming conformity to his will, she carried her point; and he promised to Set out for London, when she entered upon her journey to O -- -- -- —
shire.
He kept his word. But Eleonora, though she had Summoned all her fortitude upon the trysing occasion, was shaken when the moment of separation arrived. Reflecting upon the distance they should be at from each other, and upon the uncertainty concerning the continuance of his affection, as they were at present circumstanced, she Sighed, she wept. He Saw her distress, and could hardly, So loth was he to quit her, refrain from endeavouring to gain her permission to be near her, wherever she went. He ventured to drop a few hints of that kind; but
she
vir. vv A n. 1., A ^ jtl. igi
she would not listen to them. He bore, however, the Separation with more resolution thaii she did; though his love for her was rather increased, because he was So entirely convinced of her firm attachment to him.
Eleonora was received by Lady russly with an affection, mixed with a tender melancholy, So perfectly Suitable to her then state of mind, that no other place, without the company of monson, could have been So agreeable to her.
While these ladies were thus freely indulging their different Sorrows, Mrs. Wallace, not a little pleased with the absence of Eleonora, enjoyed the Society of her favourite miss Myers, without interruption; and as the expected time of her lying in drew near, she engaged Die to remain with her till she was up again; who, pleased with the removal of miss Wallace, accepted of the invitation with delight.
Her
Her company was not indeed at all agreeable to Wallace; but he restrained himself from making any objections, or discovering any distike to it, because his wife was in a particular Situation, and because he was deeply indebted to her for his appearance in life. He could not possibly feel that passionate tenderness for Mrs. Wallace which he certainly would have felt for Fanny Lessy, had it been in his power to have made her Sensible of his love j but he was always affectionately obliging in his behaviour to her; nay, apparently fond of her, and So perfectly Satisfied her by his behaviour, that it increased her fondness for him; which fondness excited in him apprehensions for her Safety; apprehensions not without foundation; for through a violent desire to be present at a new Opera, she occasioned the premature birth of a fon; and the disorders with which his birth was attended, put an end to her life in a fortnight afterwards. The child, by proper care, throve extremely.
Wallace,
  193
Wallace, who was possessed of more humanity and tenderness than is to be met with, perhaps, in the majority of his Sex, was both shocked and afflicted at her unexpected and untimely fate: and though she was not lamented by him in the manner she would have been if he had chosen her for his wise, he was too much dejected by her death, to stay in the place where she died. He, therefore. Set out for his father’s house. As he had lost Mrs. Wallace, he did not think himself obliged to follow bu liness. While she lived, a generous wish to improve what she had bestowed on him, for the advantage of herself and her children, prompted him, in Spite of her persua fions and remonstrances, to attend closely to his profession. Having nothing now to excite his industry, and being disgusted with all the objects about him, change of place would, he thought, contribute more than any You I. K thing
i
thing else to the removal of his unea linels.
After having Spent about six weelcs at his native village, with his little Son, he left him there under the in jpection of his mother; and returned to town. He had not quite given up the law; but he did not make himself a stave to it. Having been accustomed, however, to a domestic life, and finding that his Solitary meals, and the unsocial manner in which he Spent his time, had, by renewing a train of melancholy thoughts, brought on a slight indisposition; he took the advice of the physician whom he always consulted when he was out of order, who prescribed very little besides change of air and exercise.
As he had kept up a constant correspondence with Eleonora, he received frequent letters from her. On being informed of his indisposition,
she
  1^5
she expressed a great desire to see him : perfectly ignorant of Lady Rufsiys former attachment to him, and unwilling to leave her, she did not imagine there was any impropriety in the invitation; and he (not Supposing that any partiality for him remained in her ladyship, after the lapse of so many years) prepared to make her a visit.
miss Wallace, who sincerely loved her brother, flew to him with all the warmth of Sisterly affection.
Lady russly, both from Surprise' and from a joy which she probably thought should not be revealed, received him with fluttered Spirits, and down cast eyes. The reflections, however, on the unlooked-for death of Maria, Soon threw them both into a dejected state, in which, had it not been for the assistance of Eleonora, K 2 they
ig
they might have long continued. She first roused them by Speaking of her own affairs, by telling her brother that Mr. monson had wrote regularly to her every post since Ihe had been in Oxfordshire.
“And what replies have you “returned to him Said Wallace.
“None, I hope, ” answered she, blushing, of which any one can reasonably
disapprove; and as I have “kept copies of them, I will show ^ them to you, if you please, ”
Wallace replied, with a Smile, that he could trust to her discretion.
You may, indeed, ” Said Lady russly, colouring; “she has a very “large share of it, a much larger one ** than I could ever boast of in Such ** a fituationv, ”
After
  197
After Some time had elapsed, when i^ady russly had recovered from the Surprise which she felt at this unexpected visit, and expressed her pleasure at it; and when she had Sympathised with him in lamenting the loss of her fsster, they insensibly fell into an intimacy, which rendered them every hour more agreeable to each other; but that intimacy did not incite them to encroach upon the limits which were prescribed by consanguinity.
As Wallace had been the first, the only man whom Lady russly had ever loved, she felt a pleasure in his being continually near her, without Seeing any other object to attract his attention from her, beyond expression intoxicating; and as she more re seshbled Fanny Lessy, the only woman for whom his heart was ever in a palpitating condition, than any person he had Seen, he was charmed with her agremens, without once reflecting upon the consequences. But K 3 though
ig
though he felt many Symptoms of the tender pashon, they were far less disquieting than those which his beloved Fanny had inspired, whom he more than ever longed to behold.
By almost imperceptible degrees, notwithstanding. Lady russly and  became almost inseparable companions; they walked, they rode, they played, they Sung, they. read together; and her amiable unaffected iweetness and tenderness nearly conquered an heart which had never • yielded, from his friendship chiefiy for Sir Edward russly, to her beauties before. She appeared So amiable in his eyes, that though he came to Oxfordshire to Spend only a fortnight, a month at farthest, he deferred, his departure from time to time, till the season approached which calls most people to London; and to which there, was a necessity for his Speedy return, if he intended not to quit his profession entirely. In vain did he reflect upon that necessity; he could
not
  199
not prevail on himself to quit the agreeable Society which he enjoyed, to Spend the dull joyless hours in an house which would only revive ideas that he wished to bury in oblivion. In this wavering situation, the preshng - entreaties both of Lady R ussly and his sister to continue where he was, had half determined him to comply with them; when Eleonora, who imagined that she perceived a reluctance in him, and believed that she had guessed the occasion of it, gave him a hint to return Lady russly’s extreme poiiteness to him and to herself, by in fisting upon her ladyship’s making use of his house for a winter’s residence.
Whether Eleonora was really impelled out of mere friendship for her brother and Lady Rufsly, to make this proposal, or whether a distant hope of Seeing monson had not Some influence upon her, Fshall not pretend to determine; but her motion K 4 was
20
was certainly not disagreeable to either of them.
After a little hesitation, and much persuasion, Lady Rufsly consented, for the pleasure of being still near Eleonora, to return her visit at her brother’s; and they accordingly all three came to town, where no material alteration was made in their style of living.
Wallace, indeed, devoted the greatest part of the morning to business; but the rest of the day was entirely dedicated to the amiable Lady ^ russly, who received very few visits which could give any interruption to Such desirable Society.
monson, who was Soon informed of their arrival, stew with rapture to Eleonora; but his presence, far from being troublesome to the others, as he was deeply engaged with the mis tress of his heart, only gave them
more
  2ot
more frequent opportunities to entertain each other.
Sometimes, however, Wallace and Lady russly went together to the play, opera, and other public places of rational amusement; but they were generally better pleased to be at home. As they were both great admirers of reading and of music, the hours ssew Swiftly away; and as the Ipring returned, Wallace, who was a true lover of the country, proposed little excursions to the villa where he first became acquainted with the amiable Cecilia.
The sight of a Spot once So dearly beloved, drew So many sighs from the gentle bosom of Cecilia, that Wallace, touched with her melancholy, strove to administer all the consolation to her in his power.
When the mornings were fine, they strolled over the pleasant gardens, which had been So elegantly laid out K 5 by
20 2 The History ot
by Mr, Brereton, and when she looked fatigued, he kindly offered his friendly arm to Support her. When she chose to ride, he assisted her in mounting her shorse, and was ever ready to take her down in his arms.
These little marks of his tenderness often repeated, together with his anxiety about her health, and his assiduous endeavours to divert her gloomy thoughts, strengthened the impression which his engaging person, winning manners, and extensive understanding, had already made on her mind; nor did that understanding, which had So early enabled him to judge accurately concerning propriety in everything, check his attentions to her; he •deemed it in no way criminal to treat her with the respectful familiarity due to the Sister of his wife •, till she Saw her melted into tenderness by the alluring charms of his behaviour. Then, indeed, he began to reflect Serioufiy on the consequences of Such a behaviour.
viour, and wished to make an alteration in it; but an alteration in it was not easily to be made, as he was really very much pleased with her company; butas he found that it occasioned improper sensations in the heart of Lady Rufsly, he resolved to be more upon his guard. He, therefore, gradually changed his carriage to her; but even before that change, she, who had felt herself but too Sensibly touched, determined to return to Oxfordshire, though'she had hot yet communicated her resolves.
One night at the opera, while they were thus situated, Wallace was struck with the appearance of a young lady, who exactly resembled miss Lessy; but miss Lessy grown into a woman, with not only a person infinitely improved, but with all the outward embellishments which could Set it off to the greatest advantage; her dress was elegantly rich, and there was a remarkable brilliancy in her jewels. The prodigious improbability K 6
of her ever appearing in So Splendid a Situation, induced him at first to conclude that his eyes had misinformed ' him; yet, not being able to remove them from a beautiful object: So perfectly refestibling the idol of his heart, he indulged, his inclination by gazing freely at her while he was unobserved; he gazed with eagerness, till she accidentally directed her eyes towards him, and Surveyed him with a mixture of Surprise and pleasure. She continued to look at him like one who has just discovered a long lost friend, and as if she expected him, indeed, to recognise her; but finding that he still looked earnestly at her, without Seeming to recollect her face, her natural modesty, added to her regret on not being remembered by Jiim, drimsoned her cheeks to Such a degree, that Wallace, thinking that he had been much too free with his glances, threw his eyes down, and accused himself of having allowed them too much liberty; as he had disconcerted So lovely a woman, who appeared
xtxi* YY XX JLJ JLJ XX
peared to be possressed of as much delicacy as beauty. Yet her extreme likeness to the dear image which had never been forgotten by him, prompted him to renew his glances, and to alk Some gentlemen who sat near him, and who admired her no less than himself, if they could favour him with her name.
One of them replied, that she was
Lady Frances F -- -- -- -- -- only daughter
to Lord T -- -- -- -- --.
This intelligence, of which he had no reason to doubt the authenticity, did not quite destroy his first hopes, that she might possibly be his Mise Lessy; though he could no way account for the magnificence of her appearance, but by an advantageous turn in point of fortune.
Certain, therefore, at last, that he had been deceived by the clofeness of the resemblance, and not willing to encourage the flattering emotions of
hia
- his heart, he determined to look at her no more; but turned all his attention to Lady russly, which was Sufficient, from his natural poiiteness of disposition, and tenderness for her situation, to make people, who observed them, believe that she was far' from being an indifferent object to him. She had also taken notice of Lady Frances; and as she was, unlike the generality of women, very much inclined to admire beauties in her own Sex, and Spoke much in praise of her to Wallace; her panegyrics, as he was particularly charmed with' her, delighted him extremely, and made him rather redouble than siacken his assiduities about his very amiable sister-in-law.
Lady Frances, who had Scarce evey taken her eyes off them, alked, in her turn, the name of that lovely young kdy; and happening to ash a person who had heard much of the attachment between  and Lady russly, and who was one of those
peo
  207
people rather disposed to heighten than to lessfen an idle report, described their mutual affection in the strongest terms; and declared, that he thought they were perfectly at liberty to indulge it, as the Sister of a wife was by no means an improper person to Succeed her; adding, that if the Commons should pretend to be impertinently troublesome, Lady russ ly’s large fortune enabled her Sufficiently to purchase the Satisfaction of being united to a man So very agreeable, and So truly deserving. ^
Lady Frances was inexpressibly affected by this information; for tho’ she had no room to suppose that she should ever meet Wallace Single, or unengaged; yet, as she had formed but too many wishes that he might be So, she felt Severely the disappointment; striving, however, with all her address, to conceal her feelings.
A di
iiuo Xiic xtixstory or
A digreshon here, relating to this lady, will not be, perhaps, unneces sary. She was, indeed, the real Fanny Lessy, by which name Ihe was called while she was ignorant of her own. As her father had married privately a lady with a very Small fortune, and feared the resentment of his family, who had it in their power greatly to distress him, he left his little daughter under the care of Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, who were his particular friends, and desired that she might I pass for their niece, when he went to make the tour of Europe, having first concerted measures for his lady’s following him.
He implicitly conformed to the directions of his tutor, in the route; but when the time for their return to England approached, he contrived delays in order to retard his departure; and these delays were So frequently repeated, that his family, wearied with expectation, and not in the least imagining that he had any legal attachment
vtxl, VY jhl JU
tachmcnt abroad, left him to follow his own inclination. He accordingly fettled at Geneva, where his lady was contented to pass for his mistress, till he thought proper to own her, that is, till the death of his fatheri
Just at that period, however, my lord, as Ihe was in a bad state of health, hoping that the presence of her daughter might help to restore her, and being also very desirous to See her. Sent for her; but She did not arrive Soon enough to be of any Service to the now acknowledged
Lady T- -- -- -- -- -, died in a short
time after her daughter’s arrival. As they were both amiable, and both equally pleased with each other, this Sudden Separation was equally regretted by them; and it mixed a tender Sort of melancholy in the mind of Lady Frances, which her father’s most indulgent fondness could not remove.
After
After this heartfelt loss, he moved about from place to place, hoping by new Scenes to dissipate his own grief, and entirely to revive his daughter’s natural chearfulness: but his travelling was not attended with all the happy effects which he wished for.
In their Several routes, especially at Aix la Chapelie, Lady Frances charmed Some men of fashion, who were Serious in their designs, and with my lord’s approbation, paid their addresses to her; but the constant coldness which she discovered upon those occasions, joined to the reflections which my lord could not help making on his own infelicity in having been forced into a clandestine marriage, through the austerity of his father, made him resolve not to compel Lady Frances to marry a man who was not agreeable to her; he was, on the contrary, determined to do everything in his power to unite her to one for whom she had a particular prepossession,
and
  211
and therefore laid no restraint on her.
The remembrance of Wallace, ^ whom she had known from her infancy, still remained strong enough to exclude every other pretender; and when she Saw him So improved in person and address, So formed with every grace to win and keep the coldest heart, ssie wished to be recollected by him. She went farther; she wished to find him free from any engagement, and to renew the pleasing intercourse which had once made all the happiness of her life.
As she was no stranger, while she lived at Mrs. edwards’s, to his filial duty and affection, his tender regard for his lister, his generosity of temper, and his indefatigable application to study, in order to shine in the profession for which he was designed; and by following which as siduoussy, he hoped to reward the
kind
21
kind care which his parents had taken of him; these virtues had very early warmed her heart in his favour, and excited both her esteem and her love; and though she had since her removal from Mr. edwards’s, and the death of his wife, which happened Soon after, heard but little relating to him, yet, as Wallace was very young, and had not entered into business, which was to be, she knew, his only Support, she could have no reason to imagine that he should be married. Upon her retiirn to f ngland, however, the death of his wife, and his strong attachment to Lady russly, were the almost first pieces of intelligence which she heard. She would have written to the miss Wallaces, her young companions, upon her leaving Mrs. edwards’s; but she knew not whither, nor to whom she was going, as the earl had reserved the Secret of her birth to be discovered by himself. Besides, she was Sent for in Such a hurry, that she had Scarce time to bid them adieu.
Still,
  213
Still, however, Ihe intended to write, when she was fettled; but the affecting interview with her parents, the illness of her mother, the loss of her, with the death of Mrs. Edwards, and his removal to Bath, all combined to hinder her from beginning a correspondence which she had most Serioufiy intended,
END dp THE FIRST VOLUME.
*
THE
HISTORY
OF

*
THE
T R I U M P. H
^ 0 F
1., ONE AND B E A Uv T Y;
OR, THE
HISTORY
O F
Mr. W‘ A L L A C E
AND HIS FAMILY.
IN FOUR BOOKS.
V OL. ‘II.
L O N D o' N :
Printod foi Robinson & Roberts, in Pater nofter row,
THE '
HIST R Y
O t
Mr. WALL L A C E.
B O O K III
Lady Frances had been lb much engaged by the unexpected meeting with her father and mother, by the Sudden loss ' •of Mrs, Edwards, who had brought her up, and by the entire new way of life into which Ihe was thrown, that even Wallace had been almost driven from her thoughts; but the offers and addrelses of Several Englishmen of vol. II B fashion

fashion, whom she Saw abroad, awakened ail her former inclination for hint; and finding, or at least fancying, a great difference between them and the man who had So early made an impression upon her young and tender heart, all the sensations which his striking figure, agreeable address, cultivated understanding, and excellent heart, had on their first acquaintance excited, returned with elouble force, and would not Suffer her to listen to any of those who really Seemed to be formed by nature, rank, and fortune, to gain her affections. A cool poiiteness was all they could obtain for all the admiration with which they treated her So profusely;; indeed there were Several wshom the earl V old have liked for relations; but being absolutely determined to make his daughter happy, if possible, in her isiarriage. as he hacl been rendered otherwise in his. own, by those who had the Same right to chuse for him, he left lady Frances to act as Sne thought proper, in a
point
  B
point in which she was herself So much interested.
The grateful, the amiable daughter in return for Such uncommon tenderness, opened her whole heart to her indulgent father, and mentioned Wallace in terms which made the earl. conceive a very high opinion of him. But though she acknowledged her prepossessions in his favour; she at the Same time frankly confessed that she should be miserable even with him, if she was not assured that he married her entirely from choice, uninfluenced by her fortune or her rank.
Governed by these Sentiments, it is not Surprising that she was pleased at the sight of him, and that she vas allb hurt by his not recognising her; as well as by the attention which he paid to his sister-in-law.
She was also greatly astonished to find that her dear Eleonora had forgot her, not con sidering that the ad b 2 dition

dition of almost two years to a young person who had not done growing at the time of their Separation, together wkh the change in her dress and appearance (for the doctor’s family had always been told by Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, that miss Lessy had no very flattering expectations), must necessarily prevent miss Wallace from imagining that her young companion, whom site had been accustomed to behold in a state of innocent simplicity, could have So soon towered into a graceful figure, elegantly fashionable, and covered with the decorations of a woman in the first form of life. Now, there vas not So great a difference in the appearance of Eleonora : fly was older than Lady Frances; in her person, therefore, little or no alteration was perceptible; her dress was genteel, but not at all Splendid. She was with her brother, too, whose image was too deeply engraved in the memory of Lady Frances, to be eassly erased; So that she was immediately known to her.
Wallace,

Wallace, more than once during th evening, mentioned to his Sister the amazing likeness between that lady and Miss Lessy; but Eleonora, for the reasons already mentioned, and from the attention which she gave to Mr. monson, vsho was of their party. Seemed to think that there was a greater dissimilitude between, them than he discovered.
Two or three times after this every ing, Wallace, while he was conducting his sisters to the play, tec. c. siiw the Same lovely and perplexing figure again; but never happened to be very near her, and always strove to keep himself from gazing on what was, he believed, sofar above his hopes; for though his profession was genteel, and his fortune respectable, he could not reasonably imagine that the Earl of
Ti -- -- -- would think him a proper
match for his daughter (Supposing her to be really his Fanny).. Besides, as his inclination for miss Lessy was kindled by the charms of her manners and B ^ conver
6 Tiie History of conversation, as well as those of her person, and as he had only Seen the beauties of the latter in Lady Frances, he determined to entertain no thoughts about her; but to apply himself with fresh assiduity to his pro fdsion.'' He was the more bent to carry this design into execution, as he had formed a plan to facilitate the happiness of Eleonora; tho’ the generous conception of it, and the doubts which he harboured concerning the success of it, prompted him to bury it in the deepest recesses of his breast. Fie could not prevail on himself to communicate it even to Lady russly, though in the true Spirit of friendship he reposed the greatest confidence in her.
Yfhen he had thoroughly digested his plan, he went one morning to Sir Kobert monson’s in his own carriage, and desired to have half an hour’s conversation with him.
\ The
  ^
The Servant who came to him, ashed his name; but he replied, “that as he was not known to Sir ‘‘ Robert, the mention of his name would be of no consequence.”
The appearance, however, whidi he made in the eyes of the Servant, procured an admission to his master, who treated him, on account of his figure and behaviour, with great poiiteness, till he opened the business he came about in the following manner:
“I am the brother of that miss w’'allace, Sir Robert, whom your Son has long admired; and site well deserves, I am happy today, “though she is my sister, all the ‘‘ esteem and affection of So amiable a gentleman; but as there is a great “deficiency on her side, in point of “fortune, I am willing to repair in Some measure, that deficiency, by “paying down upon her marriage B 4, “with

with Mr. monson, ten thousand pounds.”
It is not very easy to describe the astonishment which this haughty baronet felt at the delivery of So generous a proposal, or the contempt with which he received it. He was like too many people of rank and fortune, exceedingly hurt to sind that a man So far beneath him in birth, as he looked on Wallace to be, was So far iuperior to him in nobleness of Spirit and tenderness of affection'. Hating him also for poffessing virtues so infinitely above ail the advantages which he vas master of; and envying even while he strove to defpise him, he replied with exquisite disdain, “And do you imagine, sir, that the offer of “your paltry ten thousand pounds, can make me forget that you and your sister are the offsprings of a “North country doctor? No, Mr. “Wallace, added he, ” with a con temptuous Sneer, as that is your name I think, V be assured, I shall ‘‘ never
  9
never listen to a proposal So truly ridiculous; and if my fon has' “possibly done your sister the honour “to think her person tolerable, as “without doubt the daughter of a “pedlar may be a pretty girl, I am “certain that monson has too much “regard for his birth and rank in “life, to have any Serious thoughts “about her; he may, perhaps, like “to trifle with her a little by way of “amusement; but I would disin “herit him, if I imagined that he “had the ssightest intention of being more intimately connected with “her.”
Wallace, whole Spirit and courage were equal to his honour and his generosity, felt himself extremely moved at Sir robert’s Sarcastic Speech; and darting a look at him, full of expression, Said, “For the eontempt, “Sir Robert, with which you have ** thought proper to treat me and niy family, you are only protected front my resentment by being in your own B 5 housh,.
l
‘‘ house. Thank heaven! I can with more reason boast of my family,
‘ than you, can of yours; because they never have been known by ‘‘ their conduct in life to disgrace ‘‘ their birth or their education, or "‘ to Swerve from the Sentiments of honour and virtue, which had been “early planted in their minds : “Sentiments with which neither rank “nor fortune can adorn the minds of those who foolishly plume them“ “on Such comparatively frivo ‘‘ lous acquisitions; and therefore ‘‘ jvstly appear thoroughly despicable “in the eyes of the nobly exalted, “who, undazzkd by titles riches, pay no respect: to people who lessen C themselves by deviating from the ‘‘ good manners which is due from, “one gentleman to another. I am
“not indeed, Sir Robert, your equal “in riches or in rank; but I am “your equal in Sentiment and education;; may, possibly, be as useful to my country, an, d to my friend, as the man who possesses “wealth
  ri
‘‘ wealth without having the power to use it, either in the Service of “the former or the latter. Fie but ill merits the favours of fortune, ^ “wsho, from a Sordidnefs of disposi “tion, has not an heart to employ “them but in self gratification; “and is far inferior, in the eye of V reason, to him, who, though but “in Scanty circumstances. Spares what little he can, with reaeliness and alacrity, for the benefit of his“ “relations, if they want his “ashstance. As to your Son Mr..
** monson, he has hitherto ap peared to be an amiable character,
“and worthy of my sister; worthy “of her L Say, Sir Robert, I repeat the word with an emphasis, because a prince should not marry her if “his merit was not equal to hers;
but neither a prince nor any other “man shall trifle with miss Wallace “Unchastized, while I am her pro tectof.”
B 6 At
1
At the conclusion of this Speech, the last words of which he uttered with uncommon energy, he turned his back upon the astonished baronet, and quitted the house directly.
Particular bnsinefs having kept him abroad the whole day, he had Seen none of his family; he would not inr deed have mentioned what had passed between him and Sir Robert, if he had gone home directly. Imagine,, therefore, his extreme Surprise, when upon his return, Eleonora and Mpn^ son ssew to him with open arms,, while Lady russly looked as if she was only prevented by the custom of the world from discovering her joy in the Same manner.
When miss Wallace had thanked her brother in terms Suitable to the occasion, for the unexpected step which he had taken in her favour, monson clasped him to his bosom,. and Said, “My dear, my generous
friend, let me but add brother, y and
Mr. w A H H A t.. e:. 13
and I shall be blessed indeed. How “much do I esteem, how highly do “I honour you for the noble effort “■ which you have made to move Sir “Robert in my favour! But his ioul is dead to all the tender affections; love and pity have not the least “infiuence over him. Be Satisfied, “therefore, my dear Wallace, in ** having exerted yourself with shch “uncommon generosity in your sif “ter’s behalf, and keep your for“ “unimpaired : I want it not: give me but my lovely Eleonora, “and I shall not murmur at my “lot; give but your consent to make “me happy with her; I ask na “more.”
And do you really believe that “Eleonora is So undeserving of so “much felicity, ” replied Waillace gravely, “as to purchase it So mean“ “to purchase it by coming into “a family who despise her No, my “dear monson, I shall never bring ^ myself to consent tosher being de“ “
i  ‘‘ graded in that manner; nor do I “believe that Eleonora will Submit to Such degradation on any terms.” ^
“i will never do anything, my dear brother, ” Said She, with her eyes full of tears, “that you difap “prove of. I esteem Mr. monson; ‘‘ I do not pretend to deny that I “feel for him more than I ever felt for any man; but I would not lessen him So much in the eyes of his, relations, as to become his “wife without their entire approba“ “
monson, half distracted at eleonora’s resolute reply, made use of every argument which his ardent love for her Suggested to him; but to no pur poscji The contempt with which her brother’s generous proposal had been received by his father, with whose injurious behaviour, glowing wish resentment against it, he had acquainted her, rendered her immoveable; for Sir Robert had absolutely declared to
his
Mr. VA L L A C E. 15
his Son, when he informed him of wallace’s visit, and of the cool re ^ cep tion which he gave him, that he would disinherit him if he persisted in making his.addresses to that lowborn girl.
monson, finding that nothirig was able to make Eleonora recede from the resolution which she had taken, became wretched to the greatest degree; and complained of her unkind hess in stich pathetic terms to her, that in order to render him tolerably easy, she promised not to entertain any other lover while he was living, and unmarried, and still retained the same Sentiments for her. She agreed also, with her brother’s consent, to See him now and then among the rest of their acquaintance.
As this was her final answer, he was obliged to appear contented with it, lest he should be altogether rejected; but though he promised to ’ make less frequent visits to her at her brother’s.
t  brother’s, this compliance was but of a short duration; for he Soon made his appearance there as often as ever. Eleonora was Sometimes angry, but never violently So, and her anger was only momentary.
Lady russly, who had by this time brought herself to think seri onssy of returning home, mentioned her design one evening to Wallace as they were sitting alone, Eleonora being in her own apartment, writing to her mother.
He started at the thoughts of parting with her, though he was convinced of the propriety of her departure; but the intelligence came upon him so Suddenly, and was so unwelcome to his ears, that he sighed before he was aware, and Said, “How melan^ “choly will be my hours when “I am deprived of your agreeable company!”
If
\
  37 “If it is really agreeable to you,
“  ” Said she, with ^ tenderness in her voice which she • could not stifle, “there is an abso “lute necessity for my immediate de“ “
“There is, I fear, indeed, my “lady, ” replied he, rising, and walking from her, to hide his emotions, which he could not otherwise conceal; but the transport which she felt at finding herself really necessary to the happiness of a man whom she had long loved in vain, was So great, that she could not, in Spite of all her discretion, refrain from exclaiming, ■ “Then I shall at last be happy, “since I am esteemed by Mr. “Wallace, and since my departure “will be regretted by him.”
^ “Good Heaven !” cried Wallace,
wholly Softened, “Could Lady “russly possibly imagine that my “heart was not filled with the most “affectionate, the most tender es
teent
i8 History of
teem for her; and that I should not lament the absence of so dear, “so amiable a friend ?■ — Oh! that I “dared to Say more !”
Stop, stop, there, ” cried she, with her eyes drowned in tears : • “There is now an eternal bar be“ “us; but if you ever wisned, if you ever once wished, Wallace, “that it could be removed, I am overpaid for all my Sufferings on “your account.’*
“Have you then Suffered for me, “my dear Lady russly ?” cried he, going up to her, as she Sat overwhelmed with a tender confusion“ “I known it before it was “too late! But my friend’s passion “for you; the choice which your “father made of your sister for me; “my ignorance of your Sentiments y in my favour.” —
“All, all, replied she, ” interrupting him, “conspired against us;
“but
  19 ‘‘ but let us quit this affecting fub ‘‘ ject,  3 I am now Sa ‘‘ tisfied that you could have been ‘‘ happy with me, if so many ‘‘ concurring incidents had not op“ “our union. I am easier than “I should have been without this discovery, cruel as it is; as I shall now always sind in you an inesti “mable friend. I deserved not to be “happy in love, as I could not, tho’ “I strove to do it, return, as he “wished, the affection of a most a“ “and tender husband. Yet “he knew no rest till I consented to “marry him; and I hope that he did not, from my behaviour, be lieve me to be So averse from “him, as I, with Sorrow I Speak it, ‘S ever was. I could ndt divest, my“ “of an inclination for you, “which I could not help feeling, “from our first intimacy at my fa“ “; but after my marriage, I “determined never to see you; nor would I ever allow myself the com y pany of Eleonora, because she So
y much,
\
The History of
much resembled you, while Sir “Edward lived, lest I should indulge “thoughts fatal to my peace. I trust, therefore, that I have by continually striving to discourage a partiality “for you, Mr.wallace, which you but “too well deserved, made Some expia “tion for my weakness in having entertained it; and that I may not “relapse into my folly, I will imme diately return to Oxfordshire, cheer“ “with the enlivening Satisfaction“ “if there was a possibility of my “being yours, you would, with joy, “receive me, ”
. “I would, by all that is dear to
** rne, ” replied Wallace; “by your “lov^ Self, my too amiable Lady “russiy, ^ It would.” He was here quite melted to tenderness, and prefix ing her hands in his, which, while she strove to withdraw them from him, he first respectfully kissed, and then moistened with the tears of manly affection. Fearing, however, that he should move her too much, and not
being.
  21
being able himself to endure so Softening a Scene, he turned from her with emotions which he had never felt before, and covered his face with his handkerchief.
They both remained for Some time over powered with the different Sen sations which oppressed them. Lady russly then, first recovering, rose, and endeavouring to recall her Scattered Spirits, Said, “Let us, Mr. “Wallace, strive to think no more of “what ought to be for ever buried, in oblivion. I am unexpectedly happy in finding that I am So truly “esteemed by you; but I must, you “know, merit your esteem, ” continued she, ‘‘ by persevering in the re“ “which I have taken to “leave you tomorrow.
Wallace sighed, while he told her, that she raised herself every mo ‘‘ ment higher in his esteem, by that very resolution; but that he was afraid there was a necessity for her V keeping
2  “keeping it, as the more she charm ed him by her conduct, the more re quisite it would be for her to re move herself from him; adding, that though her departure would ‘‘ give him inexpressible uneafiness, the propriety of it was for that reason doubly striking. But, my dearest sister, ” concluded he, newer had he called her So before, “Let ‘‘'me entreat you to take Eleonora down with you : I cannot bear to “think of your being alone just at ‘‘ this time.”
/
“How will you Spare her?” Said she. “Had I not been fearful of distressing you, I should most “gladly have desired her company“
“not of me, ” answered Wallace; “Let me but know that ‘‘ peace is once again returned to that gentle bosom, and I shall, be V happier than I have been for Some
Upon
  23
. Upon eleonora’s entrance into the room, he directly told her that Lady russly being resolved to go into Ox -- fordshire the next day, he had promised in her name, that she should accompany her.
miss Wallace, though she would probably, for Some reasons, have chosen to remain with her brother, was yet too fond both of him and of Lady russly to refuse them what they desired.
Lady russly, though she had long intended to leave Wallace, intended not to have left him so absolutely; but after that evening’s interview no delay was to be made. She, therefore, with uncommon discretion, hastened everything for her departure early in the morning. When she wished him a good night, she added, with a sigh, “It will be better for us,   to Spare each “other the paimof taking leave; do not, therefore, let my rising early, disturb
2,
disturb you. I will acquaint you with my arrival at Woodby; and you will, I hope, inform me of your health in town.”
She then rose in order to retire to her apartment; shut stopped at the door, and looking back Said, May all happiness attend you! ” May “every blessing follow my dearest sister’s wish !” replied Wallace.
Eleonora then bade him adieu! while Lady russly, not daring to mist herself a moment longer with him, hurried upstairs, where, throwing herself into a chair, a shower of tears relieved her full heart.
miss Wallace, Surprised at this unusual Sorrow, Said, “Why, my “dear friend, do you leave my “brother, if the removal from him makes you so uneasy V
“Oh Eleonora I” replied my Lady, Have I been So very prudent
“that
  25
that you have not found out the
necessity of it.’*
She then related to her all the sen fations which had passed in her mind„ from her first ac(!juaintance with Wallace, to their last conversation. Eleonora admired her fortitude, while she pitied her disappointment.
When they were to Set out, Wallace, though desired not to rise, could not, as he had passed a very fieepless night, hinder himself from taking a look at her from the window. Sic compassionated her disquietude too much to increase it by a foriual farewell. But as he was not visible, she concluded that he was not stirring, and lost the pleasure which his last attention would have given her; tho’ her distress would have been rendered more poignant by it.
As Soon as they were gone, monson, coming as usual, was shocked at the unexpected intelligence which he
vol. IL C received;
s
received; but as the feason approached when people of fashion leave the, town, he determined to pass the Summer near, if not vfith, his Eleonora.
After the departure of Lady Hulsly, Wallace endeavoured to a muse his thoughts in his hours of leisure, by mixing Sometimes among the gay crowd at the public entertainments, at which he frequently Saw the lovely Lady Frances; but as the sight of her always filled him with disquieting emotions, he as constantly endeavoured to avoid her, and rather in So abrupt a manner, that she, ever watchful of his behaviour was shocked at it. She had heard, from her informant, that Lady Rufsly was gone to reside in Oxfordshire, and that Wallace had no other attachment. What then could make him so re gardless of her. So apparently determined to avoid her, but an entire dis gult, a Settled aversion?
As
Mr. W A L L A C E. 27
As she was certain that she had never Seen him unobserved by him, though he from the first appeared quite indifferent to her; this neglect, from the only man in the world for whom she ever felt a fond inclination, piqued her pride, and touched at the Same time a tender pashon. It affected her, indeed, in Such a manner that she became melancholy, and disgusted with everything in a little, wshile. The tineasmess of her mind disordered her body; a languor Seized her whole frame; she lost all her chearfulness; and began to decline going to public places wshen she could decently avoid them: and as she was thoroughly vexed with herself fo4’ still liking the only man breathing, who Seemed to shun her, she confined her griefs entirely to her own breast; fearing even to trust her father with the cause of the alteration in her, wshich he could not but perceive, lest he might take Some measures with regard to Wale 2 lace.

lace, which would lessen her still more in her own eyes.
While Lady Frances was thus wretched about a man who Secretly admired her, he was not much more happy. Deprived of all the Social comforts of domestic life, and meeting with few of his own Sex who were as Serioufiy disposed as himseff, he had nothing to do but apply with more diligence than ever to the law.
While he was employed in this manner, a first cousin of his, of the Same name, only dignified with the title of baronet, arrived from abroad, where he had been above three years for improvement. He had a very agreeable person; it could not indeed be deemed otherwise; for he was as like Wallace as two people could pos sibly resemble each other; and many mistakes had been occasioned by the similitude between them before he left England. He was also young, lively. Sensible, and polite; and totally
  29
tally free from the vices by which young men of fashion and fortune, are too often distinguished. As he had always had a great esteem for Wallace, he sincerely rejoiced at his success in life, and Wallace was no less pleased at his return, that he might renew his friendship with him.
Just before his cousin’s arrival, Wallace received letters both from Lady lussly and Eleonora, and answered. them. He, therefore, dedicated all his leisure hours to Sir George, who could nor, at that time, make any long stay in town, having promised to rheet a gentleman in Northamptonshire, with whom he had contracted an intimacy while he was in Italy.
After having Spent about a fortnight whth Wallace, Sir George Set out on his English tour.
Within ten miles of his friend’s es tate, in a green lane, he came up to C 3 a lady
The history of
a lady who had been thrown from her, horse, and lay on the ground. Her fall had rendered her seriseless; her Servant was trying to raise her.
Sir George hastily dismounting,, lent his assistance, at first;, merely from humanity; but when by coming nearer he Saw the sv/eet face and delicate form of her whom he Supported, he became immediately interested in her recovery.
As there was no carriage to be procured, ami as the Servant Said that his lady was far from home, Sir George, assisted by the two men, carried her to a farmhouse at a little distance, in which she was laid on a couch,
, while his man vas dispatched with all possible expedition to the next town, for a Surgeon; during whose absence the mistress of the farm applied Several remedies to bring her to her Senses; Sir George doing everything in his power to be Serviceable upost the occasiop, and expressing thc
greatest;
  31
greatest concern at her accident; ashing her Servant if no gentleman belonged to her, and declaring his Surprise that So sine a creature should ride out only So attended.
“My Lady, Sir, is a v/idovr, ” replied the fellow : My master has
“been dead about a year.
“She is a lovely one, ” Said Sir George. /
Just as he had pronounced those. words, she opened her eyes, and having stared wildly round her, for a few moments, fixed them at last earnestly on him, as he vas kneeling by the side of the couch, and Said, with a faint voice, “Oh! I remember that “my horse threw me; but how ■ came you here, Wallace? Was “you destined to Save my life a Southeast
yond time V added she, with a sigh.
C 4 No
3
No words can describe Sir george ’s astonishment at this address. He was certain that he had never Seen an human figure before, half So full of beausties; nor did he, notwithstanding his fenchant., recollect that he had ever been fortunate enough to Save the life of any lady. He Scarce knew, therefore, what reply to make. His Spirits were little less stuttered than: the lady’s, who in confused and broken Sentences expressed her obligations to him; still called him Wallace; and poured out her gratitude and esteem, not without wondering that he of all men should be So providentially instrumental tor; her preservation.
Sir George, who would have been transported to have been the real person for whom Such warm expressions were designed, began to believe tlmt she was under a; mistake, and that she certainly imagined him to be Ms cousin, recollecting the resemblance between them; but at the Same time
reiblv^
Mr. w A n, n.. resblving to humour the deception, he declared how exquisitely happy he was to be near her when she was in distressful a condition, and how delighted he was to think that he hadi been of any Service to her; hoping, that she was not much hurt, and begging her to let him know if he could' do anything farther towards her relief.
“Nothing, ” replied she, “on ly let me be carried home,, “where. I shall find, your Sister, my " dear Eleonora, who will be as “Sorry for my accident as you; “are.’’
This answer confirmed all his coir jectures about his. cousin, and convinced him that Her fright, and the pain she probably felt, prevented her from attending very closely to. the: personal difference' between: them. Their voices, also, happened not to’ be easily distinguished. He stilly, therefore, continued to talk with a.
C 5, more;
34 rne itistgrt oi
more tender kind of freedom, tham he would have ventured to do So Soon with an entire stranger, had he been more charmed than he actually was. But all his little assiduities about her, were accompanied with so much respect, that if she had not been at first mistaken, she could not well have been offended. She was, however, in a short time, undeceived; for as soon as she came a little to herself, she desired the woman of the house to assist her in rising from the, coiich, that she might try to walk.
Sir George, then, gently raising her in his arms. Set her on her feet. A closer view of him, and a point of light in which she had not Seen him before, discovered her error. Striving to disengage herself from him,. f while she blushed extremely for what she had been, though very innocently, Saying to a stranger, she cried out at the same time, 1 beg your
par,
,  . 35
pardon, sir, I took you for Mr. y George Wallace.”
‘‘ My name is George Wallace,, madam, ” replied he; “and whem “you are informed how very nearly “related I am to that happy man,, for whom, front the great resem“ “between us, I have been “mistaken; you will not, I hope, be:
“less inclined to permit me to give “you every kind of assistance in my “power.”
She only could sigh a reply, through" weakness, and through disappointment. The effort to rise,. had convinced her that she was still unable: to move. She Sunk down again upon the couch, and pointing to her head, which had received an ugly s blow, Said, I cannot talk now, sir; but I wish to See miss Wallace, whoi' y is at Woodby, ”
Sir George immediately called' im her Servant, and directed him before:
C sii hera,
^6 rne luistory or
her, to desire miss Wallace to conif* to her with all possible haste; adding“ “her, that Sir George Wallace,,. “• lately arrived from Italy,, will be“ “glad to meet her here.”
Lady russly faintly lifted up her eyes, and directed them to Sir George, upon his ceasing to Speak,,, as she just then recollected that, she had heard Wallace mention Such a relation, who was making the tour of Europe, and attempted to afkhim Some questions; but he, perceiving that it would hurti. her to talk, entreated her to be quiet and sitting down by her side, gave her • a very Succinct account of himself; which, he concluded with begging, that she would Suffer him to endear your to gain a share of that friendship * which she felt for the rest of his family. She was too ill to Say much in return. She did not agree to hi staying by her, and assisting her; nor did she discourage his stay or his as fistaace.
Mr..  . z7
At this juncture the Surgeon arrived, v^ho discovered a slight con -- tusion in her head, which would not: permit her to be removed, as stillness and tranquillity were necessary. for the. promotion of her recovery. Wheni he had finished the requisite applica r tions, he desired the mistress of the' house, therefore, to get a bed prepared for the lady; and proceeded to business > wshile. Sir George sup f ported her in his arms with all the tenderness and anxiety of a man who had long known, and long esteemed her;; making use of every argument, he could think of to keep up, her Ipirits,, and to enforce the necessity of her Submitting to a little present un easiness, in order to Secure her from a.. future one..
When the applications to her head were over, and when the Surgeon had assured Sir George that the lady was in no danger, if she was kept quiet, and followed his directions; Eleonora arrived, and was filled with the greatest
Sorrow
ft  Sorrow at her friend’s accident, and with inexpressible Surprise at the sight of Sir George; declaring hov/ much she was astonished at not having been informed by her brother that he was in England; but upon Sir george’s as suiing her that he had promised to give her Such information when he left him, and that most likely there was then a letter upon the road to her for that purpose; and upon his desiring her to bestow all her attention upon her friend, who extremely wanted it, she assisted him in helping her upstairs. He then took his leave, begging her to eome dowm 2s Soon as Lady russly could Spare her.
When Lady russly was rendered as easy as a woman could possibly be in her situation, Eleonora returned to Sir George, whom she found bursting with impatience to be informed of everything relating to her companion; and would Scarce give her time to ask the cqiiestions which she deemed but absolutely
Mr. WALL ACE. ■ 39'. iutely necessary, after So long an absence
; So eager was he to hear every circumstance concerning Lady russly.
When Eleonora had finished her tale, which was short, for she mentioned nothing about her ladyship’s inclination for her brother, he cried out, What a lovely creature! I “never Saw an object so perfectly ‘‘ amiable. Oh! my dearest cuz,, could I but make an impression “on Such an heart! — Do you think it impossible 1. But I have a “thousand fears : yet methinks, wshile: “she took me for your brother, she appeared so kind. So grateful — ^ ' “Oh! miss Wallace, there is Such a ‘S tumult in my bosom, do, for, pity’s Sake, do. assist me in'
gaining So angelic a being, I am Seisiouscontinued he, perceiving a Smile upon her face; “I Solemnly “Swear that I never was in love till “this hour. Do not laligh at me„ Fieonora; I must gain her or f' died!!
!!
4.0 Ihe History of
“To be Sure, ” replied Eleonoraj,., gravely, “Lady russly’s fortune is immensest“
“not of fortune, ” eriedshe;
“it is not worthy of a thought,
“when Such a Sweet creature is in question; who, according to your “account of her, must be as good “as she is beautiful: but go to her,
“and do thy best, cuz; and say a few civil things about me : site “thinks me like George, and she “cannot hate him. I will, every ^ “hour, more and more resemble ‘‘ the man whom she deems, at least, deserving of her esteem.. Oh“
“I were So.”
miss Wallace immediately went up to her friend; and while she Sat in her mom, wrote every particular that she could learn about her accident, and the unexpected meeting with Sir George, and his violent passion for her,, to.hershrother, as Lady russly was not
very.
  41
very able ta talk to her for Several’ hours.
When evening approached, Eleonora found that Sir George had procured a lodging for himself in a little village about half a. mile from the farm, at which he left the ladies; but returned early the next morning to inquire after Lady rufsly’s health; and with great pleasure heard that file was better than she could have been expected to be. In a few days she began to sit up, and was pronounced by her Surgeon in a fair way of doing well; but he advised that she should not be carried home too Soon, lest the motion of a carriage for Several miles might fatigue her too much.
However, as Soon as Sir George heard that she had quitted her bed, he So earnestly entreated to See her, that at the desire Of Eleonora,, who had told Lady russly how nearly he and. her brother were related, sire con
fentedi
4  fentedto his admission; but she blushed whenever he was mentioned. Saying, ‘‘ she was afraid, from the extreme “resemblance between them, that “she had, in her flutter, dropped“ “expressions which would give “a strange opinion of her.”
“So far from having a strange ‘‘ opinion of you, my dear Lady“ “” Said miss Wallace, “he is “almost distradted about you. I northeast“ “heard a man utter So magy “handsome things concerning any “woman.”
This answer increased her ladyship’s confusion, and consequently heightened the colour which started into her face vipon Sir george’s entrance, making it appear more beautiful.
He approached her with, a kind ' of timiclity, as if he was awestruck at her presence, and fearfulof displeasing

Mr. W A L L A C E. 43: ing her; his whole behaviour, indeed,, was respectfully tender.
She endeavoured to make a little apology for the mistake which she had committed; and Said, “that the true esteem sne had for Mr. Wall“ “on account of his merit and his “relationship to her, had made herper “haps, by discovering it in an impro “per manner, appear in an odd light;
but that she hoped he would be can did “enough to impute her behaviour to“ “fiurry into which her Spirits were ‘‘ thrown by her fall, and the hurt “which she had received by it: ‘‘ concluding with sincere thanks to “him for his timely assistance, and “assuring hint that she was glad to “find he was of a family for whom, she, “had so unfeigned a regard.”
Sir George, transported at this pp liteness, in which he could not be mistaken, as it vas directed to him alone, expressed the utmost contentment at his reception, and begged her
ta
4  to believe that he should think himself the happiest of men, when she was perfectly recovered, and would permit him to endeavour to deserve the regard with which she had honoured the rest of his family.
She only replied with a modest boy, as she Sat in her chair • but from that time, whenever he desired to See her, and to See her he wished as often as decency would favour his admishon, he was admitted.
Frequent interviews, and the gentle ^ resignation with which Lady russly bore the uneasiness which her accident must have necesiarily occasioned, quite transported him. He never Saw her but with rapture; he never left her but with regret. By every polite and obliging endeavour to please, to amuse her, he tried to lessen the irksomeness of her confinement: he Sent to London for every new and entertaining publication in the literary and musical way; and read to her whenever
she.
  4^
she Was disposed to listen to him. those orders to the metropolis were always accompanied with letters to Wallace, wherein he informed him how, beyond expression, he was charmed with Lady russly : telling him, that the happiness of his future life depended upon his pleasing her; and entreating him to mention him when he wrote to her, in the most favourable terms.
Walkce was at first exceedingly grieved at the hurt which Lady Rulsly had received; but when he found that she was out of danger, and that Sir George was so much enamoured with her, so well received by her too, as a man who had rendered himself Serviceable to her, he began to think that nothing would be more fortunate for her, than to view him in an agreeable light. Unhappy as she had been in her first marriage, and still prepossrelsed in favour of him whom she could not marry with prudence, no man was, in
his
■46
his opinion, more likely to make her happy in the marriage state than he who So nearly resembled him, who was passionately fond of her, who had a general good character, and who was extremely good-natured. When he wrote, therefore, to congratulate her on her recovery, he mingled Some encomiums upon Sir George with his gratulations; and strongly hinted that an alliance between them would be ■ both prudent and desirable, if her compliance with Such a proposal was solli cited. This hint being also communicated at the Same time to Sir George, paved the way for him to mention what he longed, but dreaded, to propose. He waited, however, discreetly till he was thoroughly well received as the relation of Wallace and Eleonora, and with all the easy freedom allovvtst by friendship; Such a reception his likeness to Wallace the ashstance which he had given her, and his rei|iectful ashduity. Soon procured.
Lady
  47
Lady russly, at her return home, could not well refrain from inviting Sir George to Woodby on eleonora’s account, at which place monson also, who had wrote constantly to his friend in, London, was a frequent visiter, having hired a Small houle for the Summer at a little distance, on purpose to be near miss Wallace; who, tho’she would not make any promises in his Savour, could not bring herself to drive him to absolute despair, by forbidding him. lo See her.
As these two lovers were very much engaged with each other. Sir George was unavoidably left much alone with Lady Rufsly; and had, therefore, a thousand opportunities to observe the sweetness of her disposition, and the extreme amiableness of her manners; which increased his pashon for her to Such a degree, that he could Icarce, keep it within bounds; but the fear of being banished from her sight, .if his proposal should not prove acceptable to her, prevented him from
de
4  declaring his Sentiments, till he really became, without being conscious of his felicity, very agreeable to her. The uncommon resemblance between his person and that of the only man whom she had only loved; the natural easy cheerful poiiteness of his carriage; the respectable attention to please her alone, mixed with a tenderness, which, while it was too delicate to be offensive, could not be well disregarded; all conspired to touch her heart, and made her unwilling to part with him as an amiable friend, though she had not once thought of receiving him upon the footing of a lover. He had, indeed, made so gradual. So imperceptible a progress in ner affections, that she was nor aware of it; and, therefore, altogether unprepared to oppose it with the ssightest resistance. Sometimes, presuming upon the excessive complaisance with which she treated him, and on the many hours which she devoted to him, he flattered himself that she was not totally averse to him; but the dread of
being
Mr. w A n, Ti II Jih. 49
being rejected, of being removed fn m the light of her, filled him with the most disquieting emotions, even when he found, as he thought, a favourable moment, and chained up his tongue. In this manner they went on, till they become almost inseparable.
One day, after much hesitation, he, with a faulteising voice and imploring eyes, and with a tremor which shook his whole frame, ventured to Speajc : he Spoke, and was rejected. But rejected as he was, he had the happiness to sind, that she did not Seem to wish for his absence; for she told him, “that after the assistance which he
had afforded her, she should always ‘‘ look upon him as a friend, and as “nearly related to Mr. and Mils « Wallace.”
He bowed; but made no replyj He had not much reason to expect a more favourable answer from her; but he was, nevertheless, hurt by her refusal.
vol.il D After
5
After the lapse of two or three days, during which he came to Woodby in his usual way, as he found that he was not ill received, he ventured to entreat her to let him still See her as a friend, to let him still endeavour to please her S hoping that in time he might be happy enough to make an impression upon ah heart so very much to be desired.
She blushed, and Said, that she should be always glad to See him as a friend; and then left him abruptly, as if she chose to discourage all farther application.
Sir George wrote immediately to Wallace, informed him of all that had passed, and urged him more strongly than ever to plead for him; he also applied to Eleonora, and in So Serious, So earnest a manner, that she very sincerely promised to do her utmost to persuade Lady russly to accept of him.
Eleonora
  51
Eleonora kept her word; but could not prevail on her ladyship to receive his addresses, nor even, for a considerable time, to give her reasons for refusing a man so every way agreeable.
She communicated her ill success to Sir George, upon his begging to be told the truth; but knowing that her intelligence would be disagreeable, Softened it. He would not, however, let her be quiet till she had delivered Lady russly’s actual answer, and men ‘ tioned her very great reserve upon the occasion.
This communication, which he extorted from her by the repeated earnestness of his entreaties, made him excessively uneasy. He never had before loved any woman;; continued poiiteness, therefore, of Lady russly, even after having refused him on the tenderestoccafion, surprised him greatly : but it also shocked him; he fancied, by the coolness of her behaviour, that he was now absolutely her D 2 averfijn,
5
aversion, or So very indifferent to her, that she was not in the least afraid to trust herself with him; for she never avoided private interviews with him, when Eleonora was otherwise engaged.
The vexation which this mortifying poiiteness in Lady russly’s carriage occasioned, affected him in Such a manner, that it impaired his health: it produced a striking change in his looks. The fresh bloom of masculine beauty no longer animated his countenance; it had a pale, languid appearance; his appetite gradually declined; and he lost his Spirits. This change in himself he strove to conceal from her; but his altered looks Spoke in •very intelligible language.
miss Wallace, who was truly his friend, Saw and pitied his Situation. His obliging behaviour to her, the •resemblance between him and her brother, whom she So dearly loved, together with the anxiety which she
herself
  5^ herself Suffered on monson’s account, railed in her breast a kind of concern for him; and she was pained to See him so miserable, tho’ she strove to hide her anxiety about him, and still endeavoured to be Serviceable to him; besides, from a regard forl^ady russly. who had not yet, she vrell knew, been happy, and who, she nov thought, had a fair opportunity to be So with a man, to whom, notwithstanding her behaviour to him, she had, in her opinion, no distike; she determined to be his advocate. She therefore, one day, as they were sitting alone together, introduced a con ver' station on happiness;; very freely declared, that two people every way Suitable, with a tender esteem for each other, inseparably united, stood, she believed, the best chance to obtain it.
When Eleonora found that her friend without any hesitation Subscribed to her opinion, she then added, “And why, my dear ladyrussly, do you sit “still, and refuse a man who is general“ “allowed to have every requisite to please f a man whom you must think D 3 “more
54 The htstorv of more agreeable than any other, from “your prepossession in my brother’s “favour.” ladyrussly blushed at this home question, for which she was quite unprepared; but, after a moment’s pause, laid, “He is not your brother, Eleonora.”
Very true, replied miss, Wallace; “but he is as agreeable, nay, rather “more So, I should imagine, as my “brother never behaved to you with “the tenderness of Sir George; and since you cannot have the former, why Should you still reject the latter, “with whom you might enjoy the most perfect telicity How can you bear to. See him hourly pine away, “and lose his health and youth in a “pursuit which shall be, you are resolved, unsuccessful? If you really “can never love him, why don’t “you prohibit his visits, that he may ‘‘ either by absence, or by fixing up *‘"on a woman less cruel, be happy without you
Lady
  55
Lady russly coloured like Scarlet, at the conclusion of this Speech; and, with her eyes thrown to the ground, replied, “Does Sir George, “then, wish to leave Woodby
** I don’t know, indeed, ” answered miss Wallace; “but he certainly “would be happier, if he was not here, unless you were disposed to “treat him more favourably.”
“Do I treat him ill, Eleonora P Am I obliged to marry every man “who loves me? I refused Several “offers before I Saw Sir George, “from men who told me So; and I “desired them not to repeat their “visits, because I did not chuse to “keep up any acquaintance with “them; but I am now in a very “particular Situation : Sir George is “related to you, and to your brother; “he has been of Service to me; I esteem his family, and am not dis pleased with his conversation.”
D 4 y Why
g
« Why then, my dear, cannot you “bring yourself to love and to marry “him
“because, Eleonora, I do not like to marry any man. I could northeast“ “prevail on myself to love Sir Edward russly, as he ought to have been loved. No man was ever more deserving; he left every “thing to me; and shall I, so early “too, think of enjoying in this “very house, in which he passed So “many unhappy hours, a felicity “with another which 1 could not “give to him
«« Why not, ” Said Eleonora? "‘you “did all that was in your power to “please him; you could do no more; “and he was, undoubtedly, thoroughly “Satisfied with you, by leaving every “thing to you, that you might have “an opportunity to please yourself. “But, ” continued she. Seeing her ladyship look Serious, “if you. cannot, or even if you do not think it right.
“to,.
x7jl1. ry J.X J.. Qy
"to encourage the addresses of Sir “George, dismiss him; let him go “in Search of that peace Somewhere else, which you will not allow him to enjoy here.”
Lady russly made no reply to this last piece of advice given by Eleonora, who left her in order to inform Sir George of the conversation which had just passed about him, and to persuade him to leave Woodby for Some time. “A short absence, ” continued she, would, I dare Say, be attendedwith desirable consequences; for she has owned that she likes your “company. And. I firmly believe that she has Said the truth.. If you “can once bring her to pity you, your business will be, in my opinion, more than half done; you may be “then pretty easy.”
“But I shall not be even easy, ” replied he, “ardently as I wish to call her mine, upon the terms on “which Sir Edward russly possessed her; I must gain her heart, as well D 5 ‘‘ as
5o me jriistory or
“asher person, or I can never br \ happy.”
And I have great reason to think, ” " Said miss Wallace, • “that you have “more interest in her heart than you “imagine.”
Sir George sincerely thanked Eleonora for the pains which she had taken to Serve him, but was too much in love to See with her eyes; however, his. anxiety grew too poignant to be much longer endured with patience; and he determined, as he found that his endeavours to touch Lady rufsly’s heart were ineffectual, to leave Oxfordshire, and to try what absence would do for him.
He made the experiment at first, by staying away two or three days; but not having enjoyed any ease during his retreat, he returned to Woodby, Secretly resolving to quit England, and to go back to Italy, wishing to forget that he had ever left it
During
During the few days of Sir george’s absence from Woodby, Lady russly received a very kind and Sensible letter from Wallace, in which he warmly persuaded her to accept of Sir George, if she felt the Smallest inclination for him, and approved of his conduct. She was re perusing this letter when he returned, and accosted her in the garden.
As he came with an intention to take his leave of her, he advanced towards her with an aspect unusually melancholy. She was struck at the mourn fullness of his appearance, and asked him if he was not well.
“So far, my lady, ” Said he, am I ‘‘ from being well, that I have Some “thoughts of returning to Italy for
the restoration of my health.”
She changed colour at this reply; it Surprised her, and she was hurt by it. “Must Italy be the place, ” laid .she, with a plaintive voice, “fixed D 6 y upon
DU X lig JLJ. IS 1 UK. V Ui
upon for that purpose? Can yom ‘‘ not find restoratives in your native “istand?”
“I am afraid not, madam, ” Said he.
“I am Sorry to hear you Say So, Sir George, ” replied she, with a visible concern in her air; and after a little hesitation, “I shall be grieved, ” continued she, with a gentle sigh, “to part with so agreeable a friend.”
She stopped here, and threw her eyes on the ground; while Sir George, who watched every variation of her features. Said, but with much anxiety, “Do you then wish me to stay. Lady “russly? If you do, you shall be “obeyed, tho’ I pine away my life “in fruitless expectation. But what is “lifei can with pleasure Sacrifice it to make you happy.
Gracious Heaven 1” cried Lady kussly, lifting up her tearful eyes,
“can
can you believe me so inhuman as ^ to be pleased with the death of any man; with yours, of all men ?”
“And why this exception in my “favour ?” Said he, taking hold of her hand, and looking tenderly at hen; Why this amiable Sorrow?
because you will not believe, ” " Said she, ‘‘ that I wish you to be well and happy.”
As it is in your power alone, ” replied he, ‘‘ to make me So, your “wishes may be this moment gratified. ‘‘ Why then will you delay to pro“ “my felicity? and why will you not give yourself to me for “ever r” continued, he, urging her with all the eloquence he was master of, till, overpowered by his per fuasions, and more affected by Something which pleaded strongly for him in her bosom, she gave him her hand. He pressed it ardently to his lips; he threw his. arm round
her 5
02 inc iiistory or
her; ' and, pulling her gently to him, she let her face fall on his breast:, on which she hid her blushes.
When she had a little recovered herself, she proposed their returning towards the house; and he, ever ready to oblige her, wrapped her arm in his, and conducted her to it. Upon her arrival, she ran to Eleonora; while he informed monson of his approaching happiness.
Sir George, it maybe supposed, was very much delighted with this change in his favour. He behaved, indeed, for a few days, with all the raptures of a man intoxicated with his happiness; nor did Lady russly Seem to be less transported, tho’ her extreme delicacy prevented her from giving a loose to the joy of her heart. Sir George, being naturally of a very warm " constitution, with difficulty curbed his joyous sensations; but, as he both respected and esteemed Lady russly to a very great degree, he kept them within the bounds of decorum. When
her
mr. \\ x j i j il. o ^ her good nature, however, and the progress which he really had made in her affections, prompted her to irnile at his flights of pashon, and Sallies of Satisfaction, he could hardly check his vivacities; and nothing but the fear of incurring her displeasure,, prevented him from catching her frequently in his arms, and almost devouring her with kisses.
He one day threw himself by her fide, as she Sat upon a piece of turf, a little raised from the ground. While his eyes, glowing with love, were fixed upon her face, he held one of her hands in his, and pressed her to reply to all his fond protestations; to tell him how long she had loved him, and why she kept him in Such a cruel suspence; why she almost killed him, by letting him remain so long upon the rack of uncertainty.
Between jest and earnestshewas thus toying away the happy hours, when ihe, who began to grow more and
more
j ^ UU JL J. i o 1 vy XV X \jx
more attached to him every moment desired him to rise, to sit by her, and to be Serious; assuring him, that she would discover all the foldings of her heart to him.
He obeyed her with alacrity, and she, with the greatest truth and exact ness, began to relate everything that had passed in her mind, after her first acquaintance with Wallace; the impression which he very early mads on her, and the reluctance with which she coiisented to become Lady russly: she also told him how many ft'uitlels endeavours she had used to. return Sir edward’s affection, and what a conquest she had gained over herself by quitting. Wallace, when she was convinced that he could have been happy withher. She then paused awhile, without having observed the alterationwhich this discovery of her love for his cousin had occasioned in Sir George, and with which he had, till that instant, been entirely unacquainted; and thus went on; “I Spent my clays and hours
‘‘ in
  6$ in the most tender melancholy “be imagined. Charmed to find myself beloved by the man whom “I had So long fondly esteemed in “vain, and yet grieved to be certain that we could never meet upon “the only terms which could make “us desi^'otis of living; Heaven, at “that juncture, pitying my un “happy and dejected state. Sent you. Sir George, to my assistance. Ishje “similitude between you and Mr. “Wallace, at first, you know, de“ “me; the timely Succour which you afforded me, together ‘‘ with the agreeable softness in your ‘‘ manner. Soon, filled my bosom with a stuttering kind, of pleasure, which, “since my absence from your cousin, ‘‘ I had never felt. Yet, as you “were not the man for whom I had “been So cruel to Sir Edward, who “deserved far different treatment from me, I could not, for Some time, bring myself to agree to your ‘‘ wishes. I deemed it, I must con fess, an injury to his memory; but “miss.
66 ithe History of “mifswallace, her excellent brother,
your own merit, and the alteration “in your health on my refusal, de“ “me to consent to be yours.”
She Stopped here, and, doubtless, expected a very ecstatic answer, not without reason, from a man of Sir george’s turn, who had been almost dying for her; but the very unexpectr ed discovery of his being loved,, chiefly, and indeed in his opinion wholly, for being like his cousin,., added to the affectionate esteem which, she strongly expressed for that cousin,, shocked him So prodigiousty, that all his fortitude was necessary to prevent her from observing the emotions, with which sh had disturbed his, breast. The unhappy fate of Sir Edward russly redoubled hihiisqui etude, and he Soon grew asfured, that: compassion, not love, had produced her compliance with his desires; and that his cousin would always be the favourite of her heart. He could not,,, however, make an handsome retreat,
and
  67
and refuse to accept of a favour which he had with So much ardour Solicited; nor could he but be unhappy, while he was fully convinced, from appearances, that he was not the object of Lady rufsly’s love.
Struck with a sort of horror at his. situation, he let her hand drop from his, and made no answer to what the charming openness of her temper had obliged her to declare to him. Fie said nothing: he only Sighed..
Astonished at So strange a behaviour, tho’ totally unable to conceive the cause of it, she became immediately alarmed, and cried, “what’s the mat“ “Sir George; are you not well ’
“Not well at all, my Lady, ” replied he, faintly, glad to conceal the disorder of his mind, by encouraging; her to suppose that ill health had occasioned the alteration in him.
His
€S The fiistqry of
His Sudden indisposition, and the" coolness of his reply, furprised her; for though he had treated her with all possible respect before company, yet, when they were by themselves, after her having consented to be his, he had laid aside ail that formality, and indulging the violence of his passion, had frequently called her his dearest, loveliest Cecilia, his charrn ing angel, cc. She, therefore, concluded that he was very m'lich disordered, and pressed him to go in, little dreaming that the most raging jealousy had taken possession of him,, which he knew not how to cure; hardly to conceal.
He walked about, when She was not present, with folded arms, discontented and wretched. when she was with him, and from the. concern which she felt for his want of health, discovered unusual tenderness in her behaviour to him, he strove to return it; nay, Sometimes with Such irresistible naivete did She express her affection
  6g
tion for him, that, inspiteof his tormenting fuspicicns, he could not withstand the magic of her manners; but gave himself up to the flattery of being apparently beloved. At those times he clasped her to his bosom with the raptures of a man quite delirious with joy; but his raptures were momentaneous;; Soon flung her from him with looks of the most frigid indifference; and if she ashed why he behaved with So much cruelty, either declared his doubts concerning the reality of her affection for him, or imputed the irregularity of his carriage to the fluctuation of his spirits.
Continued complaints of illness, as she accused herself of having laid the foundation of them, disturbed Lady russly, at length, exceedingly. She became restless and unquiet, and, by a thousand marks of fond attention, endeavoured to repair the mischief which she had innocently occasioned; but Sir George, still prepof fesscd with a belief that she loved no
man
y  man exceptwalldce, and that she con tidered him only as another Sir Edward, grew absolutely half distracted.
The unaccountable carriage of Sir 'George affected Lady Rufsly so much, that, after having uttered a thousand unavailing complaints to Eleonora (to whom Sir George, to conceal the true ‘cause had given the same reasons for the iinsteadinefsof his conduct), she resolv '€d to write to Wallace, and to open her, whole heart to him upon a Subject which filled her with the greatest uneafiness, as she knew that he was most Sincerely her friend, and would administer all the consolation to her in his power.
In this letter, which was written in the height of her inquietude, she mentioned Sir George in the tenderest manner, whom she loved with the strongest and sincerest affection, she repeatedly declared; but added, that she late change in his humour Seemingly
jlvir. VY n. ju x i n. XL 71
ly proceeding from illness, had given her the moss: aching concern; because she very much feared the anxiety he endured before she had consented to his wishes, had brought it upon him; and that she would willingly do everything under the Sanction of honour to remove it, as her life was actually rendered quite unhappy by the wretchedness of a man whom she so truly esteemed. She concluded with entreating him to advise her how to act upon so delicate an occasion.
Sir George, whose vexation filled him with emotions beyond expreshon tormenting, happened to be coming up the avenue, when he met his own Servant with the above letter, walking to the post house.
As the fellow did not in the least imagine that he was doing anything wrong, he was going to pass his master relpectfully.
Sir
X UC mbtukvr oi
Sir George, perceiving the letter? which his Servant had not attempted to conceal, ashed him from whom he received it, and whither he was carrying it.
‘‘ I received it, ” Said Harry, “from ** Lady russly’s man, for whom, as “I was going to the post town, I “offered to put it in, as he had a “friend come to see him.”
Sir George, transported with all the fury of jealousy, Snatched the letter out of his hand, and read the superscription, which being to George wal lace, Esq; totally deprived him of patience. Without reflecting upon the dishonourable action which he was about to commit, or upon the consequences which might possibly re sult from it, he fiercely charged the Servant, as he valued his favour, not to let a single word drop from him relating to the letter, or to his having met him with it; then, darting from him, hurried into the most retired part
of
^ ^ yj
of the garden, tho’ from an eagerness to See the contents, he could Icarce refrain from breaking the seals, as he walked on hastily towards it.
When he had gained a retreat Secure from the eye of observation, and had rapidly perused the contents of the letter, the various passions which agitated his bosom are not to be described; at first the most violent raptures Seized him, upon finding that he was So dearly beloved; but they were very much lessened by the Shame which he felt at having with Such meanness acquired Such delightful intelligence. The dread too, of incurring Lady russly’s anger, for having acted in so indelicate a manner, for having behaved So unlike a gentleman, or to six in her an ill opinion of him for ever, the apprehensions of which were less Supportable, filled him with unspeakable anxiety, as a cool Settled aversion is infinitely more mortifying than a Sudden ebullition of resentment, which is Soon over; es
vol. II E pecially
: 74 jtlistory or
pecially if the object: which excited it, is beloved.
In this disturbed state of mind, he s ’lirst thought of not owning that he read the letter, as he could, he believed, venture to depend upon the Secrecy of his servant;; reflection, and his real esteem for Lady russly together, would not let him a Second time be guilty of so capital a weakness. No, ” Said he, “tho’ I have wronged her, I cannot repeat the injury : I love her, I adore her, and I will not deceive her. She has “acted openly and generoussy; I “hate myself but too much already “for having taken so indiscreet a step; and will, by the propriety “of my future conduct, endeavour to make atonement for it.”
With these ideas he flew in Search of Lady russly, and found her sitting in a melancholy attitude upon that very turf seat on which he had been So much shocked at her jaoble frankoess. Shame and remorse,
xhe
  75
the constant attendants on indiscretion, damped his spirits, while he advanced towards her. With down cast looks, with trembling steps, he advanced; nor did Ihe lift up her lovely eyes till he was near her.
Having thrown himself at her feet, with all the agitation of a man wavering between hope and Sear, “I come, “my charming, my amiable Lady “russly, ” cried he, ‘‘ to implore your pardon for a crime, for which, if I “am not forgiven, tho’ I have been in the highest degree gladdened by the commission of it, I shall be miserable to the last moment of my “life.”
She started; she was astonished at sh unexpected an address; while he tairiy confessed his fault, at the same time difclosed the real occasion of it, and in the most tender and Submissive terms entreated her forgiveness.
Lady russly was So much Surprised at what he had done, that she E 2 was
The history of
was at first deprived of the powers of Speech; ■ she was absolutely struck dumb; but wshen she reflected upon her being in the hands of a man So i capable of deceiving her, she was also struck with concern. Deeply concern «ed was she to find that Sir George vas the man who had been guilty of. Tuch disingenuous proceedings, as the giving him up would, she felt, be attended with pangs insupportable.
During her hesitation. Sir George scontinued to entreat, and to make use iiof every art he was master of, to move sher in his favour; attributing the (temerity of the action to the violence of his love. He concluded with Saying, that as love was the Sole occasion of the crime which he had committed, She would, if she really loved him with the sincerity declared in that letter, be candidly inclined to deem it a venial one.
This Speech alarmed all the little |dri, de she was poffeffedof. With a voice
and
 .. rv
and air which forcibly discovered' her feelings, “F never imagined, Sir George, ” Said she, “that I should“ “reproached with having shown too much affection for the man whom I “was going to marry; but you have “convinced me of my error; Lthank “you for the conviction which I feel; >
“and you may thank.yourselsi if my “future behaviour to you is different from what it might have been, if you had never induced me"
‘‘ by yours lo change it.”
As these Words, with the looks which added strength to them. Seemed to threaten all that he had dreaded, and which he but too well deserved, he despaired of regaining the place in her heart, which he was now certain of having possessed before he took So rash a step for the dissipation of his" doubts. Half wild, therefore, wsith shame and love, with rapture and remorse, he continued in a supplicating posture at her feet; and strove with" all the most humble Submissions, aided
E 3 by.v '
The histopv y of
by a numerous train of tender arguments, to make her relent; but his arguments were without weight, and his Submissions were disregarded. She. still remained inflexible. “I cannot, !* Said She, “with the least prudence, “place any trust in a man who has “once deceived me.”
Sir George Said, in his defence, that the torturing fear of being only the object of her pity, and the entire esteem which site had professed for his cousin, had made him half mad; and that the sight of her letter to a mam for whom ssie had frankly owned the truest esteem, had promptedshim to be guilty of an action for which he Should always condemn himself: he added, that if Ihe wauld pardon his first fault, inexcusable as it was, she should never have the ssightest reason to charge him with a Second of the Same nature; that he would' receive her pardon as a blessing from heaven; that she should be her own mistress more than she was even, with Sir Edward
Mr. W ALLA C E'. 79:
ward Rufsly; that though he dbatedi on her to madness, he would never approach her apartment, which ihoult be Sacred to her pleasure, without her' particular permission; that her fortune, house, Servants, cc. should be all totally at her command; and that he' would neither interrupt her in the su perintendance of her domestic affairs, -, nor even Solicit the pleasure of her company, when she chose to be alone.
these and a thousand other injunc -- tions he laid himself under; and Swore most religioussy to the observance of them; if she’ would but condescend to pardon him, and to restore him to her favour, upon the happy footing that he was before he had merited her resentment. But he pleaded, he protested, and he Swore in vain; she rejected all that he could offer in his behalf, and turned her head from him. Finding, at last, that what he Said had little or no effect, he Solemnly declared, still laying at her E 4 feet, :,
8  ' feet, that he would never part with the dear haind which he held in his; and that nothing upon earth should make him give up his claim to the dearest, loveliest of her sex, who had once, he was blessed enough to know, loved him, though he had forfeited that bleshng by his folly.
Lady russly, finding that Sir George made no effort to rise, but had actually laid his head on her hand, she cooly desired him to rise and leave her.
“Never, never, ” cried he, “will “I leave all that I" adore and dote “on, all that is dear to me in life.
I can part with life freely; but I “cannot part with my Cecilia. For“ “me. Lady russly, ” continued he, looking wilclly on her; “'but I “am almost diffracted; and if you “persist in driving me to de“ “-- -- --
The
  Bte The few last Sentences having been delivered in the most Sorrowing accents, and accompanied with looks ■ strongly expressive of frenzy, absolutely frighted her. She, therefore,, upon his repeated entreaties, and upon his eagerly grasping her hand in ’ his with a Suppliant attitude, and a >' dying tenderness in his eyes. Said at last, “Do pray rise, Sir (jeorge !”
Will you then, ” replied he, ' ‘‘ pronounce my pardon? Oh! Lady “russly, pity my feelings; they are beyond all conception.”
Well, then, ” Slid she, melted i at length, half melted by his apparent : distress“ “up.”
‘f Will you, will you then, ” cried i licj eagerly kissing her hand, ‘‘ be mine“
“yourself easy, ” Said she, turning her head aside, in order to conceal the emotion which she felt, E 5 and.
The Histgry of
“and study to deserve what you? “alk for.”
“Gh! my Cecilia, my angel!” cried he, “when I again offend Such “sweetness, may I never be forgiven. “I Hull not deserve to be for ‘‘ given, but to. be a, wretch indeed.”
He rose upon her looking mildly on him, and went madly to clasp her" in his arms; but she eluded his grasp, and with a look of dignified softness, jaid, Hold, Sir George, though I “have pardoned what is past, I can“ “So Soon forget it; .and you must “give me time to discover whether “you are deserving or not, of the “favour which you have So earnestly
pressed me to confer ’ upon you.
When I have once found myself “mistaken in a person, prudence na“
“Suggests the necessity of. “caution.”
At
Ur.  . 83 At the conclusion of this Ipeech, she walked towards the house, and he kept close by her side; but the re puise which le had met with, and the' distant respect which she required from him, prevented him from enjoying the Satisfaction, unallayed, whiclr arose from his having obtained her pardon. He made no complaints; but he Severely felt the change in her behaviour; for though she treated him with an easy politenels before company, for Some days afterwards, yet when they were together by themselves, and when he died with desire to be indulged with those innocent freedoms which are allowable between lovers when everything is adjusted, (for the writings were actually drawing up), and which she had not before discouraged in him; the cool reserve in her carriage, and the Serious air which llie asiumed, whenever he but offered to touch her hand, not only extremely chagrined him, but convinced him, that she would be in lio hurry to rci e d store
ss4 The fiistory of
store hi.tn to the favour which he had before enjoyed; and that much more time than he had at first imagined, would be thought necessary to try the sincerity of his repentance. She would not, indeed, have pronounced his pardon So readily, had he not by the violence of his complaints, and the distraction of his behaviour, almost dragged it from her by compulsion. As she really loved him, she could not bear to See him So distressed : compassion and love are very nearly related, and are rarely asiinder.
Sir George being very apprehensive, from the coolness of Lady russly’s carriage to him, that she was grown quite indifferent about him, became extremely dejected, more So than he had ever yet been. He complained to miss Wallace, and pressed her to stand his friend : but he complained to no purpose; she freely told him that as he had brought all the grievances under which he fniarted, upon
himself.

himself, he deserved all the Sufferings which he endured; adding, that if Mr. monson had acted the Same part in a similar Situation, Ihe never would have Seen him again. He was, therefore, once more obliged to have recourse to his cousin George, for the exertion of his friendship, who had innocently occasioned all the mischief which had happened. But Wallace, whose honest; heart abhorred all deceit, and would sooner have lost: the woman on whom he doted to dis tradlion, than have taken any improper steps to gain her; and who had, besides, a very great esteem for Lady russly; plainly answered, that he could not with honour interpose in Such an affair; and that the lady, who had really been, in his opinion, injured, must Solely determine a point of which she was the only competent judge, as her happiness was So nearly concerned in it. “Leave it, there“ “my dear Sir George, ” added he, ‘‘ to the goodness of Lady “russly’s disposition. If she should “happen
%  “happen to make a decision contr^y “to your wishes, arm yourself with patience, and bear your disap “pointment like a man. If you - “are really beloved, and that you “are So I firmly believe, notwith ‘‘ standing what has passed, she will “certainly relent; and you will at ** length be blessed with a woman who has affection enough for you, “and lenity of temper Sufficient to make all due allowances for the er rors to which the very best of us are “but too liable. Do not, however“ “to poffess her, without her “own free consent. I never think of “the loss of my dear friend Sir Ed “ward russly, but I most patheti “cally lamsent the only weakness of “which I ever knevr him guilty, his “marrying a woman, who, though “extremely agreeable and amiable, did not love, most probably never “would have loved, him; but though “I Sincerely Sorrowed at his death,. “because 1 truly esteemed him, I
“have
Mt..  .?, 7 ** have since thought, that he was r e “leasecl from a great deal of un “happiness, as he never could enjoy “perfect felicity with his wife. How“ “as his virtues were numerous, “and as he, by the whole tenor cf “shis conduct, deserved to be happy “in this world; Providence, who “kindly Snatched him from the anxi“ “which embittered his peace “in it, will, 1 doubt not, reward him in a better. To ensure h^pi “ness here, is not in the power ofany “human being. All v/e have to do is to endeavour to deserve it, “and enjoy the completion of our “wishes with, thankfulness, or to “bear the frustration of them with “fortitude. I have said everything “in my power to induce my sister to ‘‘ comply with all your, reasonable “desires; but I dare not press her to “act against her will. As you “are thoroughly assured that I have no hopes of the Same na r ture as yours, you may believe
“me
8  “me sincere, when I tell you, that I “cordially wish to See you happily “united to a woman, who is certainly “formed to ive felicity to the man on whom she confers her affections : and as you have reason to be satis“ “that you have been that man, conduct yourself in Such a manner as to regain her heart, and to “preserve it.”
This letter, tho’sensible and friendly, did not afford the consolation which Sir George expected to receive from his cousin: Some passages in it, indeed, tho’ intended to convey comfort, rather Served to increase his uneafiness; So certain is it, that people who merely Seek the gratification of theirpassions at the expense of probity and truth, frequently turn things designed for their benefit and relief, to their disturbance and discompolure. However, tho’ he was not So well pleased with his friend as he ought to have been, he followed his advice with great punctuality; neglecting nothing which might, he thought,
Mr. W A LD A C E. Bg thought, restore him to Lady russly’s good opinion, without teasing her to give him the proofs of it which he wished, but which he feared to ask. But his anxiety had thrown a melancholy air over his whole person, which touched her more than all he could have said.
One evening, when Sir George, Lady Rufsly, monson, and Eleonora, were walking by the side of a piece of water in the gardens at Woodby, Sir George appeared to be So entirely buried in reflection, that Mr. monson, clapping him on the shoulder, while they stopped to look at Some fish which were Sporting upon the Surface of the canal, said, ‘‘you are quite lost “in thought. Sir George.”
Sir George started at his touch, and, with a deep sigh, casting his eyes again upon the water, replied, “Would I could never think again!”
These
go The Histort of
These few words, the manner In' which they were pronounced, and the continuance of his fixed posture, while they were walking on, struck Lady Rufsly with a concern which she had not felt for him before.
Finding that he did not follow them, but remained in his pensive attitude, she turned back, and pacing fiowly towards him, said, with an unusual tenderness of voice; “What “so feriousiy engages your attention, “Sir George
The late unfortunate error in my “conduct, my lady, ” replied he sighing, “which, as it will not, in all “probability, be effaced from your memory, will ever be deeply im printed on mine. Recollection fills “my mind with perpetual uneasiness“ “renders my life so entirely in“ “that if remorse does not soon put a period to it, I shall be “strongly tempted to find Some “other means to drive myself from a y world:
Mr. wallaee. 91
** world in which I cannot hope to be “happy.”
As this Speech was delivered' with an air of the most fettled and gloomy discontent, Lady russly was truly alarmed, yet undertook to calm his disturbed mind, by urging the Solid advantages of patience and moderation; assuring him, that when he had brought himself to curb the violence of his passions, she would look upon him in the light in which he had appeared to her, before he had induced her to change her opinion about him.
“And what objection have you “to my present behaviour said he; “have I committed any new offence ^ “On the contrary, have I not stur ‘‘ dioussy endeavoured to obey you; “by keeping the cruel: distance “which you required? Oh! Lady “russly, ” continued he, with great emotion, “I also was extremely de“ “when! flattered myself that ^ you loved me. If your heart had
‘‘ been
g2
‘‘ been Softened to love, could you “have Seen my Sufferings So long without vfishing to relieve them ?”
Lady russly, hurt to find her tenderness suspected, replied, “that the “letter which he So freely opened, had, she thought, contained the strongest “and the Sincerest proofs of her love, “and that he would be the most un reasonable of men to desire more.”
“I never did; I do not now, ” interrupted he, eagerly, “desire more;
'treat me but as you did when I
“was guilty of that fault, and I shall be the happiest of human beings.”
“How do I know, ” Said she. Softening her voice, “that you will not presume upon my indulgence, and ‘‘ take still greater liberties with me? “How can I be Safe with a man So “disposed to be fuspicious? If you “loved me as you ought to love me, “you would not harbour a fear, bordering

"
dering upon jealousy. The can“ “which 1 discovered by con“ “that I once felt for your; cousin what I now feel for you,
“but in a higher degree, has been
but ill returned. Sir George.”
She was too much affected to proceed : the real anxiety which she endured to see him So uneasy; her tenderness for him, which she scarce knew how to conceal any longer; and her apprehensions lest; he should be still ■jealous of Wallace, almost over powered her. Sitting down, therefore, upon a bench by the side of the canal, she leaned her head on her hand, and hid her face with that and her handkerchief.
Sir George, who had eagerly fastened upon those expressions which convinced him that she still preferred him to Wallace, in spite of all which he had done, though undesignedly, o offend her, sat down by her, and .gently removing her handkerchief.
Saw
The History of
Saw her eyes Swimming in tears. He was melted at the sight, and accused himself in Such reproachful terms of having been the cause of her uneafiness, and entreated her with So much tender assiduity, to be composed, to forgive him, and to try him once more; that turning her Sweet eyes towards him full of tears, she gave him that hand which she shad lately So often withheld from him, and said. There, Sir George, once more take “my hand, and may you never re“ “me again for having thus “yielded to .the force of my affecti “onate feelings in your favour. Your “eontinual complaints will not “permit me any longer to resist them.”
With difficulty she breathed out these few words. Sir George, enraptured with what he had heard, gave her indeed no time to make an addition to them. He strained her to his beating bosom; and notwith .standing all her struggles, and blushing
  95
ing ■confusion, kissed her with inexpressible transport; though he trem shled at the Same time, lest she should resent So great a freedom; a freedom which he never ventured at before. She chid him; but he plainly perceived that she loved him too well to snake another quarrel with him; and that the tender awe with wshich he approached her. Soon disarmed her rising anger.
They now grew more pleased with each other than they had ever been, and consequently more happy in themselves. Sir George found out in a short time, with new transports, that if he doted on his Cecilia, she was no less attached to him. This discovery animated him to employ all his powers of pleasing; and the modest Satisfaction with which they were received and returned, increased his passion for her. He wrote an ecstatic letter to Wallace, and with the per iisission of his dear Cecilia, hastened
every
g  'everything to complete his happiness.
Vfhile they only waited till the writings were finished, Wallace, on his return one evening from Some bu iiness in which he had been engaged near Ranelagh, stepped in there, for a little relaxation. It happened to be at the end of the season;; as it was soon to be shut up, almost all the people left in town who were fond of the entertainments there, were assfembled; consequently it was a crowded night.
In his circular walk he Several times met Lady Frances, accompanied by a gentleman and two ladies. He always Saw her with pleasure; but he never Saw her without emotion; he, therefore, constantly averted his eyes from an object which silled him with many disquieting sensations. •quick, however, as he was with the movement of his eyes, he perceived a ■kind of languor andmelancholy in her,
which
Mr. W A L I. A C E. 97 ^ which he had not till then observed. This discovery insensibly made him dwell longer upon her; he fancied that he Saw her ready to saint; he actually heard the gentleman who was with her say, that he had applied to Several waiters, and could not get a box.
Wallace, tho’never less inclined to ■gallantry than at that instant, felt himself strongly desirous to contribute to the accommodation of this amiable creature; and as he had been Serviceable to one of the waiters, who had lived, in Mr. brereton’s family, she soon, by his means, gained a vacant shox, and, with the most respectful poiiteness, offered it to the gentleman for the ladies of his party, who Seemed to be fatigued.
He was so near Lady Frances at that moment, that she heard what he had mentioned, and, Sweetly Smiling,
vol, II F Said,
\
^3 The History, c.
Said, with her face crimsoned with blushes, I am, in particular, much obliged to   though. I See tlitit he does not recolkcl me.”
END OF THE THIRD BOOK.
T H E
THE -
II I S T OR Y
O F
Mr. W A L L A C E.
BOOK IV
WALLACE started at the well remembered voice; but not yet knowing how to persuade himself that Lady Frances and Miss lessly could be the Same person, and not chusing to ash for an explanation there, nor, indeed, caring to indulge himself with a longer interview, as he found that all the F 2 ' sentl
fioo '
Tentiments which he had entertained for his beloved Fanny, retcirned vfith double force to his mind; he prepar .ed to leave her with a bow Suitable, to sher rank.
Shocked at his appearing So willing : to decline all conversation with her, and fco averse even to remain a moment with shpr. She only shid^with an emotion which gave a very Serious air to her counter, nance, “I hope, sir, the miss wall laces are well; I shall be extremely glad to see them in Berkley square.”
‘‘ My eldest sister, madam, ” replied he, “is well, and is in ox fordshire; my youngest still labours “under a disorder which attacked her Some years ago.”
Here he bowed again, and as he iturned from her, heard her Say in a low voice, “Poor dear Nancy!”
these three words, and the manner fill which they were uttered, astonished
shins
Mr, WALL late:
him exceedingly; he knew not' whac to make of the person who clelivered * them : but as he had never felt him felfilb much moved, he did not wish ■ to behold her again; he,. therefore, ■ ^iiitted the place immediately.
His conduct also had no less astonished and disconcerted Lady Frances, She was prodigiousty hurt by it, and appeared with Such altered looks, when she returned home to her father, that, by" repeated questionshe at length led her to the discovery of what had So greatly affected her during the latter part of the evening
When she had opened her heart to her father, she fell on her knees before him, begged him to pardon her weakness, and to conceal it, if he had the least affection for her.:
Lady Frances was the more'earnest ' about the concealment of herweakness, because there was nothing she So much » dreaded,. from the earl's' e^ceshve F 3. fondness, -..
102   fondness, as a propensity to inform Wallace of her regard for him.
Lord T. -- -- -- -- -- - raised her from the
floor, and desired her to be assured, that he would do everything to make her happy, without offending her delicacy, which very much exalted her, he said, in his eyes.
When she was a little composed, he left her, and made several inquiries after Wallace and his family, and found that Lady russly, to whom everybody believed him tenderly attached, was on the point of being married to Sir George : nor could he by all his inquiries learn that Wallace had made his addresses to (he could not, indeed, hear that he visited, or that he confessed a partiality for) any woman.
pleased with this intelligence, concerning the truth of which he was troubled with no doubts, he returned home, and in a few days afterwards,
that
  log that Lady Frances might not suppose what he had mentioned to have been occasioned by the observation which he had made upon her prepoitessioii in favour of Wallace, said, in a careless way, “I have no mind to go down “to Cornwall this Summer.”
The family Seat was in that county.
“You have always, ” continued his lordship, “Spoken So much in praise of the pleasant village in “which you vere brought up, my“ “that I long to See it. Let us make a tour northward.”
Lady Frances blushed at the mention of a place which had been So interesting to her; but as she expressed no repugnance to his proposal, he prepared to Set out immediately, before she had time to reflect upon his mo' lives : she was too penetrating, however, to be deceived by his preparations; and could not be persuaded to f 4 approve
104
approve of the journey, till he had Solemnly protested that he would never discover the Secrets of her heart.
Lord Ti -- -- -- -•, knowing that it
was vacation time, and having heard that Wallace intended to go down to Spend his leisure weeks with his father and mother, contrived to be at the end of his journey, before Wallace departed from London. he had previoufiy Sent his gentleman down to hire a house for him, and to procure intelligence about Doctor Wallace and his family, with orders, however, not to proclaim his title in the neighbourhood; but to take the house in his own name.
Mr. Stevens, the person thus employed, executed his lord’s commands with the most exact punctuality, and returned to London with a very Satisfactory account of the doctor, who was beloved by the whole village.
When
ivir. vv n. n A C 105^
When Lord T' • -- -- -- -- -- -- and Lady'
Frances were almost at the end of their journey, the sight of a place in which she had Spent her mfancy, and the recollection of the many happy hours which she had enjoyed in the company of Wallace (when from the ' innocence of her heart she Scarce knew ' the Source of the pleasure which she felt in being near ^ him) drew sighs > from her gentle bosom. Her fond father, observing her emotion, diverted " her attention, by asking a number af questions relating to a village So well > known to her. Every creature she Saw, as she passed, was gladly remembered by her, while the rank she now appeared in, prevented them from • recognising her, and kept them at an humble distance.
The death of Mr. and mfs..dct wards (for he did not long Survive his wife) drew also so many tears from her r eyes, thatythe earl, more than ohce,. repented of having brought her to a F 5 place,,
I.UJW JLIJV. xxl.jx\^xs.i
place, which only Seemed to increase her melancholy.
However, after a day’s rest and refreshment, when he thought that She could bear the sight of her old friends, without being too much affected, he Sent for the doctor, by way of asking his advice about her health.
The good old man was struck at the sight of a person once so well known to him; tho’ she was consider'
'grown and improved in beauty : paleness, indeed, had of late over ifjread her countenance; but at the sight of the doctor, a rosy red animated it.
When the first compliments were exchanged. Dr. Wallace said, A few
years ago, my lord, I was acquaint“ “with a face So exactly like this “lovely young lady, that I could al ‘vip^cst believe her and your daugh “ter to be the Same person, did not y their very different situations in life y forbid
evil. VY ^ ^ ^ XX ^ 1^,. XU/
forbid me to encourage Such a wild conjecture : I am ignorant, indeed, ‘‘ of Fanny lefiy’s Situation, but ‘‘ she was always a Sweet amiable - girl.”
Fanny Lessy is here, my good “doctor, ” hastily replied Lady Frances, with the tears glistening in her; eyes, “and happy to find ‘‘ that you have retained So favour able an opinion of her. But let me See my excellent Mrs. Wallace, and my dear Nancy, and Eleonora.”
She would have added Something also about his Son, but tender emotions tied up her tongue, and obstructed her utterance.
This discovery naturally introduced an eclairciffement concerning her concealed birth; which my lord dis closed in a few words; but Said, that he would descend to more minute particulars when they Saw Mrs, Wallace F 6 and
loq ine idlstory ot
and her daughters, who were Immediately invited.
The coach was ordered to fetch them to dinner, as miss Nancy was in a very indifferent state of health but Lady Frances, thinking that the Surprise might come too Suddenly upon her, on a first visit in a strange house, desired her father’s leave to go with the doctor, and to make herself known to her by degrees.
The earl very warmly applauded this good-natured proposal. The good doctor, transported with joy, on observing So much friendship in her for his family, and charmed with the affable manner in which she had expressed it, cried out, “that he had “known her from her childhood; that “she was always looked upon as a littlecherub; that she was now grown up into an angel; and was come a“ “them to make them happy.’*
A ten
ivir. w A Lj C ty. 109
A tender sigh, arising from an ap prehension that Wallace might not be of the same opinion with regard to her, was the only reply which she made.
The conversation in the coach turned chiefly upon the death of Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, till they arrived at the door of the doctor’s house, where they were accosted by Mrs. Wallace, who instantly recognising her ladyship, cried out, “miss Lessy, do I See you; “once again ?” and went to Salute her.
“You do indeed, my dear, ” Said the doctor; “but she is no longer Fanny Lessy with whom you may. take these liberties; she is now “Lady Frances, and the only daughter of Lord T -- -- -- -- -- -- .”
Mrs. Wallace, upon this information, respectfully drew back. Lady Frances then taking her round the neck, cried, “Were it possible for ‘‘ me in this change in mv Situation ‘ to
iio Ihe jriistory or
“to alter my behaviour to my oh, “my first friend, I Should very justly “despise myself, and wish to be only that Fanny Lessy whom you once favoured with your friendship, ‘‘ and who now earnestly begs fpr a “renewal and continuance of it.”
 was no less pleased than' the doctor had been; withi the amiable carriage of their newfound acquaintance; and the meeting between her and Miss Nancy Wallace, wa still more affecting. That young lady, though not strikingly like her brother, resembled him enough to interest Lady Frances very much in her favour..
, i While they were in this Situation, Mrs. Wallace all at once exclaimed“
“miy dear George was
“come, my Lady, that he might ‘V partake bf the pleasure which w’e receive from the honour you f: od us !”
Ainr" The
The Sudden mention of the man whom she so miich wished to See, made the roses get the better of the lilies in the cheeks of Lady Frances, who, with a faltering voice, said, that she hoped  was “well: that she had accidentally Seen “him in town; but that he did net, “she believed, recollect her.”
This reply gave the fond mother, who doted on her fon, (and indeed with reason, for since the death of his wife, he had fettled an handsome annuity on his family) an opportunity to expatiate very largely in his praise. What she advanced in his favour did not at all tend to lessen the emotions which Lady Frances felt at the first sound of his name.
Mrs. wallace’s encomiums having concluded with the introduction of their little grandson to her ladyship’s notice, young George, one of the finest boys in the world of his age, and the very picture pf his father,
upon
rhyme nistorv or
upon being ordered by his grandfa ither to make his compliments to that lady, ssew up into her lap, and without any ceremony threw his innocent arms round her neck, and put his little mouth to hers. Having been accustomed to behave in that way to his; grand mother, he knew no other way of showing his regard.
This behaviour of the child’s, however, innocent and bewitching as it was, ingreafed the confusion of Lady Frances, which the doctor perceiving, made a number of apologies for his grandfon’s vivacities; though she repeatedly alshred him, that she was quite pleased with the pretty boy, and returned his caresses in the most affectionate manner, insisting upon taking him home to dinner with them..
From that moment she took So much pleasure in the child, and invented so many amusements for him, that when she was in the room, he would never stay Sear any other person; and, in a
short:
  113= short time, when he was alked whom he loved best, he answered, Lady Frances.
By the most innocent and amiable methods did this charming girl Secure the esteem of the doctor’s family, before the darling of it made his appearance, whom they did not acquaint with the agreeable change in their neighbourhood by the post, because they hourly expected him in person.
The change in the neighbourhood was indeed particularly agreeable to the Wallaces, in every respect; as
Lord T — -- -- -- -- perpetually Sent for,
or called upon, the doctor; and Lady Frances as frequently made the ladies happy, either by going to them herseff, or by sending the coach for miss Nancy to air in, which was often accompanied by fine fresh ve nisoo, and. the richest fruits in seasom.
Luckily
I
Luckily for both these young people, Wallace arrived at his father’s one evening, when the earl and his daughter were engaged; he was, therefore, previousiy acquainted with the Story of the latter, and, in Some measure, prepared to meet her whom he had never ceased to admire, tho’ be had now no hopes of gaining her, as he believed her to entirely above him, and to have quite forgotten her former Situation. To be assured that Lady Frances was indeed his Fanny, was only an addition to his disquietude. He was disconcerted at finding that he must be perpetually obliged to See, and to converse with, a woman So peculiarly agreeable to him; a woman, for whom he had ever felt the tenderest Sensations; a woman who had thrown such a lustre upon her personal improvements, and intellectual charms, by the winning affability of her manners, and her renewed attachment to the family with whom she was first acquainted; but though he imputed that renewed attachment
  tachment entirely to the pleasure which she felt at the sight of those with whom she had Spent the earliest part of life upon the intimate footing of'a relation, he knew that he should be most Sensibly affected whenever he was introduced to her. A thousand times did he repent of having made his annual visit, just when
the earl of T -- -- -- -- and his daughter
happened to be in the neighbourhood; and as many times did he wish that he gould have formed any reasonable excuse for his immediate return to town, or, indeed, to any other place not visited by the formidable Lady Frances. He prevailed on himself, however, to remain, where he was, from a conscioufness that he should, by flying from his family, who almost adored him, just at a time too when they appeared so overjoyed at having it in their power to give him pleasure in the acquaintance of this new friend of theirs, make them very uneasy. Fie thought too, that it would be doubly
cruel
i
cruel to disappoint them, as they had for a long while expected him, and as he had been longer than usual detained by particular business. He felt like a good Son, and a good brother, and acted accordingly.
The doctor and Mrs. Wallace, upon their son’s arrival, promised themselves a great deal of Satisfaction,, in gratefully endeavouring to return, in Some measure, the civilities which
they had received from lordt -- - — —
and Lady Frances, by the entertainment arising from the Society of that fon, whom they looked upon, and very justly with all their partiality, to be a fit companion for any gentleman. Theoblique communication, therefore, of their feelings, upon his arrival,. prevented his hasty departure; but he appeared to be much disconcerted,, much mortified, when they all eagerly launched outin praise of Lady Frances, of his once loved Fanny; and So often said, Why did you not write to me to
let me^know whom I was to expect “to
Mr. w A n n. A e n. i ly to see/sthat his careful mother feared he was Suddenly taken ill. His repeated questions, to the Same purpose,. to Nancy, obliged shem at length to tell, him the truth; to tell him that, as he was hourly expected, he would, they thought, be agreeably surprised : but they were mistaken. He, on the contrary, absolutely dreaded the sight of that amiable creature.
Wallace never once imagined that
she earl of T- -- -- -- -- - his only,
his lovely daughter, who was heiress to his very large estate, could condescend to let her become the wife of the Son of a country doctor, as Sir Robert monson had styled Isis father, and that Son in business too. The haughty Treatment, indeed, which he received from Sir Robert, had rather given him a disgust to an alliance with people of rank; it had also made him resolve not to put himself in the way of a Second refusal, at least, of that kind; and to think of Seducing; the .affections of So amiable a child as f' Lady
n
Lady Frances, from So excellent a father as the earl was, with reason, reputed (Supposing a possibility of success), was, in his opinion, a crime of the deepest die. So high were his notions of honour, that he would rather have voluntarily sacrificed his life, than have made the most indirect attempts towards Seduction.
With these noble Sentiments, and a heart glowing with admiration, esteem, and love, did  first meet Lady Frances in that village where they had formerly Spent So many in nocently happy hours; and it would be hard to Say, whether he or she felt the strongest emotions, as they were both determined to conceal them; the latter, from her never enough to be commended delicacy; and the other, from his exalted principles. Nor could their fathers, though both of them the kindsh of parents, be of any service to them; for the extreme fear of i^ady Frances, lest she should be offered to a man who did not love
her
*1. iej. 11^
her well enough to make his addresses. to her first, had impelled her to entreat the earl in the strongest terms to wait till his consent had been demanded. On the other side, the good doctor would have thought it the highest presumption to think of offering his Son to a lady far superior in rank and fortune. Nor did he, indeed, in the least believe that his fon looked upon her but on as a woman of uncommon accomplishments, both personal and intellectual; so carefully had he concealed his sensations, concealed them even from his mother and Sister; in doing which he had no very easy tash, as women are generally more curious about, and more penetrating in, love matters than men. However, as it was the earl’s business to forward an affair upon which the felicity of his daughter so much depended, and as he was not the less eager to forward it, on a nearer acquaintance with young Wallace, he gave, nay, procured his daughter
every
12
every opportunity to discover the beauties of her person and mind to him, in a proper manner; and acted with So much address upon the occasion, that everything Said or done, either by him or her. Seemed to be So easy and natural, and to proceed from Such excellent intentions, that 'everybody admired them, without siispecting their designs.
As Lady Frances and Wallace were both musical, my lord contrived little concerts, in which they displayed their taste and execution to each other’s admiration.
Sometimes my lord invited the other young inhabitants of the village to form rural dances, at which, as Wallace happened to be the highest in rank among his neighbours, he was of course destined to be the partner of Lady Frances; yet, amidst all the intimacy to which he was now admitted, he never took the ssightest freedoms,
■and
  ir and though a little gallantry is upon such occasions everywhere allowable, nothing of that kind was attempted by him: he always behaved, in those' situations, with the politest respect, and with the most attentive assiduity; and by So doing, probably made a deeper impression upon the heart of Lady Frances, than if he had adopted the carriage common among young people of different sexes in Such dr cumftances.
As Lady Frances had, from the first, admired and esteemed Wallace for his virtues, and those virtues had been So much strengthened by the steadiness of his adherence to the practice of them, and by the trials which he had met with in life; and as the modest circumspection of his behaviour had encreased her former good opinion of him; nay, so entirely captivated her, that she admired, she esteemed him a thousand times more than ever, and strove by
vol. II G every
s, 2  every word, every look, and every action, to make herself agreeable to him, though she would rather have died than have declared what she felt on his account, till he had first discovered a pashon for her; her feelings, indeed, on his account, were almost too powerful to be concealed; but she confined them within her own bosom, for reasons already mentioned.
Had Wallace really imagined that Lady Frances loved him, he would have been still more backward in taking notice of her pashon for him, till it had either received her father’s approbation, or till that father had used her with unkindness; but as he attributed all her amiable and winning carriage towards him and his family, to an excessive generosity of disposition, and to the overflowings of the most benevolent heart in the world, he was, through gratitude, silent, and adored those charming virtues in Secret, which he, at the Same
time
  123
time dying with desire, longed openly to applaud.
While each of them, however, was actuated by such Sentiments, they imperceptibly became more intimately acquainted, and were, of course, upon a freer footing together, than they had ever been before.
Lady Frances consulted his taste in music and in reading; and having communicated it to her father, whio always approved, formed her own exactly upon it. Her father, indeed, was so much pleased with her choice, that he frequently endeavoured to prevail on her to let him make a proposal to Wallace, which would certainly, he told her, be received with transport.
“Never, never, my dear father, ” Said she, embracing him with her eyes full of tears, and with her bi east heaving with sighs, ‘‘ never shall you lose your daughter upon Such O 2 termsi
12
“terms. Your fortune and your rank in life will naturally make the ‘‘ doctor and his family rejoice at “your alliance with them. Their amiable and worthy Son is too no“ “too good, to wish to aggrandise ‘‘ himself by a wife, whom he might “not be ever able to love. No, my “lord, do not lessen yourself and your “daughter so much as to offer her to “any man. Could I gain the heart “of   I would give “mine in return to him, were 1 a “queen; but till then, let me remain as I am; and let me always remain with the dearest, the most indul gent of fathers, if I should fail to “please this deserving man; and I “cannot flatter myself with any hopes, “that I Snail be the object of his ‘‘ choice.”
A shower of tears followed the few last words, which affected the earl most Sensibly, though he at the same time approved of her Spirit.
Just
  ir, C
Just at that juncture, the Sudden entrance of Wallace, who had been Sent to Lady Frances V ith a message from his mother, not a little disconcerted her. She had Scarce time to wipe away the tears from her eyes, the remains of which on her Sweet face, toge,, with the dejection Spread over it, touched him to the Soul.
The earl, ever observant of his looks, fancied that he Saw a tender concern painted in them, and, taking advantage of his supposed discovery, Said, “You come most opportunely,
  my Fanny is quite ‘‘ in the vapours; you must, there“ “stay, and endeavour to divert “her.”
Wallace bovred, and the earl left them together.
As Wallace truly felt for Lady Frances, he respectfully strove to open a gonversationthe most amusing he could think of; but she, who was but too G 3 well
cy; 12
well convinced that he was the cause of her Sorrow, and fearing also that he might discover his own power over her by her dejected appearance. Said with a Smile, which increased her personal attractions, “You are surprised to See me in tears,   “but they have been occasioned by “the extreme indulgence of the most “excellent of fathers: gratitude and “affection frequently excite tender, “sensations.”
“The tenderest of all, ” replied he, wiping his own eyes, which sympha thized with hers; “and may you “never. Lady Frances, weep frorh “any other cause; you never will, if my most fervent wisnes and prayer“ “your felicity are heard.”
She thanked him with the same sincerity; but could not get the better of her dejection. When the earl returned, he found her not much more cheerful than he left her. As to Wallace, he became every day more transported
  if ported with her; he drank large draughts of love from her eyes; and from the continued proofs which She exhibited of a fine understanding, a benevolent disposition, and an amiable heart, his esteem for her was continually increasing. He knew no joy but in her presence, yet, dreading to trust himself with her, and always leaving her with additional regret, his life actually became burthenibme to him.
Thus inflamed by a passion which grew more and more violent every hour, the tormenting sensations which he endured at length injured his health : he was, seized with a feverish disorder, and he was obliged to confine himself to the house.
Lady Frances was extremely alarmed when she heard of it, and the eaid was not less affected by the intelligence, on his account, and because he pitied his daughter.
G 4 They
3 2
They Sent every hour to inquire after him, and offered every service in their power to procure ease and relief for him.
Lady Frances Sent her woman to sit up with him, who, though ignorarit of the force of her lady’s sentiments in his favour, could not but know that he was very much esteemed by her; and not being of a retentive disposition, though otherv/ise a good kind of girl, she communicated a number of little trifles which she had taken notice of in her lady’s behaviour, which were imputed by the doctor’s family merely to the excess of her compashon and good nature; but Wallace, who could not be deaf to her communications, was touched in a particular manner by them, and considered all the humane and astectionate expressions which Lady Frances had dropped about his indisposition, as So many evident proofs of her regard for him. They had, indeed, an .amazing effect upon his health: as he was fully af
hired.
Mr. VV A n n A e n. 129
'Sured, that if he was not beloved, he was, at least, not hated by her, they contributed to the restoration of it; though from the remains of his illness, and from the keenness of his Sensibility, he was oppressed with So melancholy a languor, that his father and mother, not being acquainted with the real cause of it, wtre apprehensive of a decline.
This apprehension exceedingly alarmed them, andtheirfears about his entire recovery were, for sometime, rather increased than diminished.
When he began to sit up, the earl made frequent visits to him, nay frequently brought his daughterwith him,, who, with all the kindness and innocent familiarity of a Sister, strove to amuse and divert him; though the paleness of his fine face, once So remarkably blooming, and the heavy, but half suppressed sighs which her charming osheiousnefs drew from him, perpetually brought tears into G 5 her
1^0 Ine wistory of her lovely eyes. In these melting moments she turned aside to wipe them off, and then Smiled on as if nothing had interrupted her cheer fullness.
As Soon as he was able to go abroad, the earl insisted upon his airing in his coach; made himself often. Lady Frances always, of the party; who watched the looks of her dear invalid with the most anxious Solicitude : and whenever she thought that he was faint or weary, ordered the coach to stop, while he took Some refreshment, or to drive gently homeward, just as he chose.
The continued, the unwearied proofs of her attention made her almost adored in the village for her good nature; but those proofs absolutely destroyed wallace’s peace; he could not exist, he could not breathe any longer near her, and confine his hourly incteasing passion within his own bosom; he, therefore, resolved
m
mr. vv ju ii e.. r. 111
take the only step which vas left for him, that is, to fly for ever from her, and to strive, by absence and by reason, to conquer an inclination, which now made him at once both happy and wretched : he only wished that he had quitted the village before.
Thus determined, he came into his mother’s apartment one morning, in which he unexpectedly found Lady Frances sitting with his little boy in her lap; his head lay on her neck, and she was kissing him with the greatest fondness.
She'started at the sight of Wallace; her face and neck were covered with a crimson colour; and she has tily Set down the child.
Wallace,, affected beyond expression at this Scene, was not master enough of himself to check the transport which he felt upon the oc easion. ‘‘ Oh! do not, ” Said he, G 6 “do
132 ine riistory ot
“do not let me drive him from that ‘‘ heavenly bosom.”
As he had never thrown out so animated an exclamation before, she was pleasingly confused; and hope flattered her all the rest of the day. But, - how cruelly was she disap vpointed next morning, when the doctor informed her father, that his. dear fon was determined to leave them, imagining that he should be better in another air; that his intention had made his mother, and, indeed, the whole family, very uneasy; and that he had taken the liberty to entreat his lordship to join with them in persuading him to remain where he was; declaring at the Same time,, he should not have troubled his lord ship, had he not known how infinitely his fon respected him, and how much influence his lordships commands had over him.
These
iyh. YY XV ^ XV. i:..
These, and many other stronger reasons were given by the good old man, to add weight to his entreaties for he could not bear to think of being deprived of his son’s company, while he was in So bad a state of health.
The earl, full as Unwilling to be deprived of wallace’s company, promised to make use of all his eloquence upon the occasion.
When the doctor returned, he, Mrs. Wallace, and Nancy, all united to dissuade Wallace from the execution of his designs, and availed themselves of the most aogent arguments: they could think of to fix his continuance with them; but he opposed all their arguments and their perfua^ Sions, though in the genteelest manner; for he most affectionately loved and esteemed the whole family.
While Wallace, however, was preparing for his departure, he knew not
how
ig4 Mis TOR y ot
how to bear the thoughts of bidding Lady Frances adieu. To go off abruptly, without taking leave, after having received so many marks of, her poiiteness, shocked his gratitude : he, therefore, called up all his fortitude, and, towards evening, went to. the earl.
My lord, when the doctor had left him in the morning, related to his daughter all that he had communicated to him; and tried to comfort her, as she had been almost in an agony of despair; being now assured, she Said, that she had made no impression upon him, as he was So desirous to leave her.
“I am not So certain, ” replied her father, “that you have made no impression
upon Wallace; but your “fear and your anxiety have pre“ “you from taking notice of “many things. Seemingly trivial,
“which have not escaped my obser y ration. I only wish, my dear, that
‘‘ you
“you would give me leave to put an “end to your doubts concerning him directly.”
Lady Frances, tho’ she loved and revered her father to an uncommon degree, had Such refined notions about delicacy, that she could not bring herself to consent to his request.
Wallace found the earl and his daughter in a tite a titeupon his entrance, the former urged everything which he deemed likely to move him to stay in the village, and then quitted the room, after having said“ “I leave my daughter to insist upon your remaining with us : “Sure, Wallace, you cannot refuse « her.”
A deep sigh was the only answei which he returned.
After a mournful silence between them, which continued for Some moments, Lady Frances, with the most
tender
130 T northeast History of
tender air imaginable, in the most winning accents, and with the most''melting expressions, endeavoured to pre “vail on him to comply with the united entreaties of his friends; and, in order to enforce her endeavours, and in some measure to apologise for the part she had undertaken, added, “Your fa“ “your mother, your Sister, and the earl,   have all “insisted upon my trying to persuade “you to stay here; my own fears and wishes for the reestablishment of your health, have possibly urged “me to join their requests more “strongly than may have been a“ “to you; but I hope, ” continued she, throwing down her eyes with a sweet humility, “that you will pardon me for interesting “myself so much about your hap piness and health.”
Wallace, not able to Support his firmness against So powerful a pleader, and still less able to leave her, knowing that the Separation would be painful
  137 full to her, felt himself torn to pieces by the various sensations which love, honour, and duty, thwarting each other, had kindled in his breast.
He turned from her Several times, to hide the emotions of his heart, which flew into his face. At length, resolving to make one grand effort, he Said, with a faltering voice, “My obligations to the earl, my “particular obligations to Lady “Frances, can never, by the ser vices of my whole life, were those“ “worthy of their acceptance, “be repaid; but if they are sincere” ” he, in a tone wholly Softened, “and I am well assured“ “they are so, will not Lady “Frances, allow me to go? as the “restoration of my health can only “be effected by my departure from “hence.”
these words, though with the greatest difficulty and reluctance pronounced, were decisive. She misconstrued
1^8 The History oi
strued them entirely, and, believing that he never liked her, that he wished to be somewhere else, and that he should never see her again, was quite overpowered by her tenderness. The shock was too Severe to be shs tained by her, and she fainted away upon the Sofa on which she Sat.
To describe the, feelings of Wallace at that alarming moment, is utterly imposhble. He stood awhile motionless; ' but, looking on her with the most affecting concern, love, at last, prompted him to assist her.
He Sat down by her; he took her in. his arms, and strove, by tenderly calling on her, to bring her to herself; till half distracted with the condition she was in, and with his own feelings, and not knowing certainly the real cause of her Sudden Swoon, though he partly guessed at it, he threw out the most pathetic exclamations, offered up the most fervent prayers to heaven for her recovery,
and
  139
and lamented the difference in their Situations, which obliged him to keep up Such a distance with her, “Oh! that I might but discover” ” he, ‘‘ what my bursting heart ‘‘ at this instant feels! Oh 1 that “it were in my power, that I dared “but to endeavour to drive away every painful fensation, even the “least uneafiness, from that dear, “lovely bosom, in which all my hap“ “is Seated.”
Lady Frances, whose senses wer just returning as he uttered the last Sentence, lost not a single Syllable of it, tho’ she had not strength Sufficient to Speak. The words which he had delivered. So necessary to her peace,, were far more efficacious than the contents of an eau de luce bottle, which, having found in his pocket, he held to her nose.
rising, at length, gently, and withdrawing herself from his arms, she modestly thanked him for the
assistance
14
assistance wdiich he had afforded her, while her face glowed with blushes.
“And novr,   ” continued she, with the Sweetest voice, “I have but one request to make, “with which, 1 hope, you will be “indulgent enough to me to comply, “not to leave us till tomorrow is “over: after that day, I give you
my word, you shall be entirely at “your liberty.”
Wallace, full of love, confusion, and amazement, bowed — hoped that she was recovered — wished to have been able to relieve — feared that she was not yet well — ‘and left her, ina manner that gave her more pleasure than she had ever received from him..
Wallace, when he retired from her presence, went to ruminate upon the luddenness or her indisposition, and on her final request.
When the earl returned to See how his daughter’s rhetoric had operated upon
the
  141 ' the passions of her lover, she related to him everything that had passed between them, and rendered him So pleased with her intelligence, that he hurried away in search of him.
Just as he was going out of the room, she stopped him, and, with a supplicating look, cried, “Oh, Spare “your daughter, my lord !”
My beloved child, my amiable
Fanny, ” replied the fond Sather,
“is not thy honour dearer to me “than my own V
The earl was so transported with the unintended discovery of wallace’s inclinations, that he waited for no reply, but ssew to search for him.
Having found him, walking with agitated steps, in a grove near the doctor’s, in which were placed some benches at proper distances, he sat down; and, making a motion for
him
14
him to sit also, Said, when he had looked steadfastly at him for a few moments, “Wallace, do you love
my daughter ^
Wallace, struck with the abrupt h€!fs of the question, a question in which his heart was so much interested, w’as unable to make an imme mediate answer; while the blood starting into his cheeks, and a tremor, which shook his whole frame, evidently ascertained the justncss of the earl’s conjectures, and silled the measure of his wishes.
Upon the repetition of the question, Wallace, still trembling, replied,
“Love Lady Frances, my lord !”
“Aye.” Said the earl with the most complacent Smile, “is she not “formed to be loved ?”
“Certainly, my lord, ” replied the still confused Wallace, to be adored
‘‘ by
  145 “by those who are by rank and for tune rendered deserving of her.”
Say rather, my friend, ” answered the earl, “who are rendered wor. “thy of her by true tenderness and “intrinsic merit; and as I firmly believe that no young man is poffcssed ** of more tenderness or more merit “than yourseff, you have my free leave to make your addresses to my “daughter, and to try to gain her “affections.”
A bullet directed to the breast of Wallace, would not have filled him with more astonishment than he felt at the latter part of his lordship’s Speech; he stood aghasti confounded before him. At last, quite overwhelmed with a soft confusion, with emotions too exquisitely thrilling to be expressed, he turned his head, and, with tremulous accents, cried, “Oh! my lord, this is too: too much — it comes so suddenly upon me“ “you are, I know, too noble ‘‘ minded
14
minded to trifle with me. Yes, “my lord, from my first acquaint“ “with Lady Frances, my Soul has doted on her; on her lovely “person, and on her uncommon vir“ “I doted long before I knew “that she was your daughter; but I want words to thank you as I ought.”
“My dear Wallace, ” replied the delighted earl“ “have been too “abrupt; I beg your pardon, com pose yourself; recall your Scattered “Spirits; and when you sind your self, able to arrange your thoughts, “tell me, why you thus concealed a “passion from me, the discovery of “which would have given me, long “ago, the sincerest Satisfaction. You “have no other attachment?”
None, none, my lord, ” said the enraptured Wallace; “but, far as I “was beneath your daughter, how “could I lift up my eyes to so much excellence? pd had I been vain “enough
“enough to hope for success, could “1, without the most: unpardonable “presumption, have endeavoured to “Seduce the heart of such a daughter ‘‘ from such a father? Should I then, rhy lord, have merited the ho nourable title of your Son ?”
“Admirable young man 1” replied his lordship, touched with his elevated and refined Sentiments; ‘‘ tho’ few “deserve my girl, you more than “merit her; and yet, when you are “better acquainted with the present “which I am going to confer upon “you, you will say with me, that “few are like my darling Fanny.”
The earl then desired him to relate, with the most minute exactness, every particular which had passed in his mind relating to his daughter, from the first sight of her; and, when he had finished his narration, said, Go, Wallace, I will keep you no longer “from your love; go, and let her vol. II H “share
140 inc jtiiii t uky, uj
‘‘ share my satisfaction, which is more “than I can well describe.”
Wallace wanted not the Spur of a Second bidding to do what was So infinitely agreeable to him; yet, as fear is always inseparable from real love, he felt himself under a thousand apprehensions, lest all the civilities which he had received from her, and which had Sprung, he Sometimes fondly fancied, from a particular partiality for him, might have proceeded only from the exuberance of her good nature. He dreaded, tho’ he died with impatience, to hear how she would receive his tender address.
When he entered the room with trembling steps, and with a beating bosom, which throbbed at once with hope and fear, she was sitting with her head leaning on her hand; an affecting languor appeared in her eyes, occasioned by what she had heard him say, during her gradual recovery
from
  147
from her Swoon; her thoughts, indeed, from that time, had been wholly employed about him.
As soon as he had Seated himself by her fide, he with accents, and with looks, full o: f humility and love, said,
I come. Lady Frances, by his lord“ “permission, earnestly hoping to find your health restored, and to offer ray tenderest and most re spectful Services.”
Fie paused here— —
“must not then leave us,   ” replied she, with a Sweet rosy Smile.
Never, my adorable Lady frances” ” he, taking her trembling hand; “Never, unless you wish for my absence, unless you desire “me to go; my future happy hours ‘‘ shall be all dedicated to your plea * Sure; Supremely blessed shall I think, H 2 “my
14
myseff, if you will but Suffer me ‘‘ to be ever near you.”
He stopped, waiting for her reply; but her full heart would not permit her to Speak : to have every wish of that heart gratified, when she was almost driven to despair, was a pleasure hardly to be Supported : she sighed; she blushed; she threw down her charming eyes; then raising them all at once, and looking tenderly on him, inough with a bashful timidity, ‘‘ Do you thus address me,   ” Said she, “in consequence of your own ‘‘ genuine feelings, or merely in com“ “with my father’s inclina tion r
Her face glowed at the conclusion of these queries, and she paused for his answer with down cast eyes, fearing that she had Said too much, and that, from the flutter of her spirits, she had made too indelicate a discovery.
Why,
Mr. W AHL ACE. r
Why, my dear,, my lovely Lady ^ Frances, ” Said he, with an impassioned air, do you doubt my feelings for you? Yes, my angel,
‘‘ I have, ever since 1 knew the meaning of the word Love, regarded you “with the most ardent, the most re“ “tenderness; and though I was u n avoid ably engaged, w h lie you ** was absent from me, at the united ‘‘ entreaties of my own and of the “lady’s father, my heart did not one moment forget the amiable Miss“ “; but when the dear object of my first, my only real passion was “restored to. my longing eyes, in So “brilliant a light, in a Situation So “far Superior to my humble hopes,
“how could I presume to raise my thoughts to her, all dear as she “still was to my fond heart, without ‘‘ her father’s app’^oval ^ But, believe me. Lady Frances, neither the for“ “nor the high birth, nor even the excellent qualities of my lord, could have induced me to tell him H 3 that
150 The histcry of
‘‘ that I loved his charming daughter,. “if I did not. Unequal as I am in “fortune to the honour and happi ness designed for me, as I have fnshcient to make myself and my “own family easy, not all the power “on earth should a Second time “oblige me to give my hand without “my heart. You, madam, have long “possessed the last; and if I can “possibly gain So valuable an heart “as yours is in return, I shall be “indeed Supremely happy; my only “wish will be to render your felicity ‘‘ perfect and permanent.”
Lady Frances, overcome with plea ’ Sure at this declaration, the Sincerity of whidi she had not the least reason to question, Said, with a chearfulness which had not, for a long time, brightened her features; “by look ‘‘ ing upon you,   in the. “light you wish to appear in to me, “I hope I shall make you happy, while I act in obedience to the dearest and best of fathers.”
And
  151
And must I to that worthiest of parents, as I cannot but allow his “lordship to be; must I owe entirely “to him. Lady Frances, ” Said Wallace, with a plaintive voice, ‘‘ this enchanting hand? I would Sooner “have died, than have made the “ssightest attempt to obtain your con“ “without his approbation. I “was almost deprived of health and peace of mind, by controlling a “passion which I could not with pro“ “avow without his permission; “yet. Lady Frances, I cannot help “wisning, that your inclination may accompany your father’s will. If “duty only prompts you to honour ^ me with your lovely hand, I must still sigh, still be wretched.”
He delivered these words with So dejected an air, and appeared with So disconcerted a countenance, that a strong desire to render him truly happy, conquered all her most delicate Scruples : with a voice, therefore, / H 4. quite
15
quite Softened by the force of the most affecting tenderness, she opened her heart to him without any reserve, and informed him of all the uneafiness which she had endured on his account, and of every step which her father and herself had taken in consequence of it.
Words are wanting to describe the transports which he felt at her information; he clasped her to his bosom, and, while he gazed enraptured on her charming face, glowing with becoming blushes. Said everything which the most ardent passion could shctate.
On the entrance of her father, while they were in this delighting and delighted situation, she Vvithdrew herself from his arms, and Said, with a bashful air,, don’t think amiss of “me,   I vas won en“ “by your virtues, though you “are, I will frankly allow, the most
agreeable of men.”
She
  153
She then advanced towards her father, and thanked him in the most grateful and affectionate terms, for all his kindness and indulgence to her.
Wallace, during her filial effusions, hung over her enamoured; and the earl, first joining their hands, embraced them both, with a paternal pressure in his arms, calling them his dear, his amiable, his invaluable children,.
It may easily be supposed that the doctor’s family were soon apprized of the happiness of a Son and brother, so truly. So deservedly beloved by them; and that their joy was not lest than his upon the animating occasion.
Letters were immediately dispatched to Eleonora, Lady Wallace, and Sir George, the last of whom was sincerely pleased; in the first place, because he was very glad to hear of his gousm george’s good fortune; in the H 5 Second,,
154 History of
Second, because his cousin would, by his union with Lady Frances, be entirely removed out of the way of his Cecilia, tho’ he had not the ssightest reason to imagine, that he was not the Sole possessor of her heart.
Lady Wallace also expressed much pleasure at  t approaching happiness, as she had ever Very highly esteemed him, and was early in her congratulations upon the completion of it.
As Soon as everything could be got ready, Wallace and his beloved Fanny were united.
Before his marriage,, he presented to each of his Sisters five thousand pounds, and confirmed the annuity, already allowed for his father’s and his mother’s life : but as neither Lady Frances nor her father would Suffer little George to be deprived of any part of his mother’s fortune, the earl gave, with his daughter, So large
a Sum
  155
a Sum down, that Wallace could well afford to exert his generosity in So noble a manner; and to quit, likewise, all thoughts of business, from which he withdrew, at my lord’s particular desire.
The approach of winter brought these now happy pairs, Sir George and Lady Wallace,  and Lady Frances, to London.
They were accompanied by the earl and Eleonora, for whom Lady Frances renewed all her former friendship, adding to it all the affection of a Sister.
As they Sometimes frequented the' places of public diversion, to which they commonly went in a party by themselves, Sir Robert monson, who was a gay man for his age, often met them accidentally; and being known to
the Earl of T --, was a Surprised
witness to the esteem and affection with which he treated his amiable.
h6 Son

son-in-law, the very man to whom he had So haughtily behaved.
Upon the kindness of Lord T -- -- -- -
to Wallace, and upon finding that he was really related to Sir George, and that he was of an ancient and honourable family, who had met with mis fortunes, and had been consequently neglected by the world; but who had by their integrity and indefatigable diligence, raised themselves again. Sir Robert began to be Sorry for having been so. rough : finding also, that nothing could wean his fon from his attachment to Eleonora, he strove to repair all that was pash He, therefore, now sought every opportunity to join them, and of paying commonplace compliments to Miss Wallace; panegyrics upon her person, and encomiums upon her agre mens; to which she always replied with a modest and becoming dignity.
As to Wallace, he was only cooly civil to Sir Robert; but the propriety
  157 ty of his conduct, soon prompted the old baronet to come to amicable terms. Numerous were the traps which he laid to engage Wallace to Speak a Second time upon a Subject to which he was now willing to listen; but they were not attended with the vrished for success and the whole family, were piqued at his pride to so great a degree, that he was, at length, tempted to make advantageous propohs himself; pretending, however, thatxhe made them entirely to promote his son’s happiness; fearful, from the littleness of his mind, that his consequence should be lessened by his condescension.
Young monson, having earnestly desired that the proposals of his father might be asiented to, Wallace, who loved his sister, began to listen to them.
At that juncture, miss Myers, who had by Some means insinuated herself among the females of Sir kobert’s
family,
t5 8' The H's story of family, and who died with envy to see Eleonora in a probable way of Surpassing her both in Splendour and felicity, while she herself could persuade no man to take such a serpent to his bosom, strove, by every art she was mistress of, to inflame the lady and daughter of Sir Robert against the innocent Eleonora.
In order to render Eleonora completely obnoxious, she scrupled not, in the malevolence of her heart, to de -- clare, thatsherbrother, finding that she caused So many disputes between him and his wife, from the turbulence of her temper, had been obliged to send her home to her father; adding, that “to be sure she must be of a very •‘‘'strange disposition, indeed, who“ “not live quiet with the late. « Mrs. Wallace.”
these malicious stories being circulated in Sir robert’s hearing, he was so irritated against his Son for liking such a woman, that he loudly related
all.
  159.
all the abuse which he had heard; .: and, by so doing, gave him a very fair opportunity to contradict all which the envious miss Myers had,, with a matchless malignity, roundly asserted.
monson, having brought over Lady Wallace and Sir George to his party, easily convinced Sir Robert that he had. been grossly imposed upon; and he immediately drove away ivjiss Myers from his house; who, having playedi the Same .infernal game in almost every family into which she had been admitted, found, at length, that no creature would have any connexions with her.
miss Myers was left by her relations without a Sufficient Subsistence; and as she was both too proud and too lazy to increase her little by industry, would ^shave been destitute of the necessaries of life, when she had, by the vileness of her behaviour, forfeited the protection of her friends, if the humane
Eleonora,
t6  Eleonora, who, soon after her removal from Sir robert’s.shouse, became Mrs. monson, had not, on hearing of her distress, Settled, though without her knowledge to whom she was obliged, an annuity upon her; to which the amiable Lady Wallace, who was ever Supremely happy with Sir George, generoussy contributed.
Lady Wallace and Lady Frances soon contracted a friendship, in which their dear Eleonora had a considerable share.
The three gentlemen were no less attached to each other, and, by agreement, spent the summer at their respective houses by turns, and at the Seat of the earl.. They would have gladly engaged Dr. Wallace and miss Nancy; but the ill health of the latter would not permit them to accompany them, in their pleasurable parties.
The continued illness of Nancy Wallace.
  ii 
Wallace gave So much concern to Lady Frances, who had always a particular affection for her, that she urged  to persuade her father to try what effect the air and waters of the German Spa would have upon her, as she had herself found them very Salutary.
Wallace accordingly availed himself of the hint which Lady Frances had dropped, and endeavoured to make his father Sensible of the propriety of his wifest proposal.
The doctor heard him with patience; but neither he, nor Mrs. Wallace, nor Nancy, could be persuaded to leave people So extremely dear to them.
Lady Frances, from her great affection for the family of her amiable Mr. Vf alsace, in order to remove their objections. Said, that if he would accompany them, and if her father would
be
i6
be of the party, she should like Sucim a tour extremely.
The ever obliging, and so greatly obliged Wallace instantly declared his compliance, and the earl readily gave his assent.
Sir George also, and Lady Walkce, expressed a desire to be of the party.
Leaving, therefore, Mrs. monson and little George Wallace under the care of her and her affectionate husband,, Set off for the continent.
As Soon as they arrived at the Spa„ they met with a Mr. and Mrs. Murden, with their Son, who made their appearance there with the Same views
Mrs. Murcten, having been a near neighbour to Dr. Wallace, had been accustomed to Send for him when any of the family were ill; but, upon the
setting;

Setting up of the new practitioner in physic, mentioned in the beginning of this history, near them, she had been drawn in, by his plausible behaviour, and appearance ot extraordinary sagacity, though he was a man of very superficial parts, to discard Dr. Wallace, and to take his prescriptions; which had So bad an effect upon her constitution, that she was obliged to come to London for better advice, being ashamed to return to her old physician, after having used him in so unhandsome a manner.
The medicines which her new doctor had poured in upon her, according to his constant practice, in order to promote the interest of the apothecaries wherever he came, that they might in return constantly recommend him, had So distempered her whole frame, that, after having consulted the most eminent of the faculty in town, and found herselt rather worse than better, she was told
by
16
by the last physician whose advice si e Solicited, that she had no chance for a perfect recovery, but by a tour to the Spa. As her spirits, therefore, began to decrease, as well as her health, her husband and Son prevailed on her to comply with the last prescription; which was,, they Said, a more agreeable one, at least, and more likely to raise her Spirits, than any which she had followed
Mrs. Murden, however, though she had punctually pursued the regimen recommended do her there, for the restoration of her health, had gained but little ground, when she met with her old neighbour, Dr. Wallace, at one of the fountains.,
. She advanced towards himtold him that she was glad to See him, though she knew not well how to look on him, after the undeserved treatment which he had received from her and, in the most friendly, mannery
congra^
  l
congratulated him on the marriage of his fon.
This overture brought on, by degrees, a more intimate conversation. The doctor, who did not now Subsist by the practice of physic, thought that he might, without being guilty of an impertinent ossiciousness, take the liberty to inquire into the state of her health, as she Seemed to be full of complaints.
She appeared to be very much pleased with the inquiries which he made about her disorders; related all that she had Suffered; and mentioned all the medicines which she had taken, without receiving the least benefit from them; and, after having very much condemned herself for her folly, in leaving a man who had ever been Successful in his practice, for one who was almost a stranger to her, declared, that she could not, without confusion, ask his advice again; but added, that if he would bury what was past in oblivion,
1 oo J. nc n 1 s T o R y or oblivion, and give it freely to her, she should think herfejf under great obligations to him.
The humane physician replied, that he should look upon himself in a very low light, indeed, were he capable of withholding his assistance from anybody, especially from an old friend and neighbour, who, doubtless, imagined that she was acting agreeably to reason, when she had recourse to new advice about her indispositions; that as health was So truly estimable, and So often precarious, he could not blame any persons for endeavouring to procure it by methods which induced them to believe that they might be probably attended with success. He conducted with Saying, that he was very Sorry she had been So long deprived of So inestimable a blessing; that he would consider her case; and that he hoped he should be fortunate in his prescriptions.
He
ivii. yy JHL XU. xu/
He ordered Something for her immediately, which luckily happened to be efficacious, far beyond his expectations; for in a few weeks, her health was perfectly restored.
The recovery of her health, after So long a deprivation of it, and after having Swallowed Such a load, of physic to no purpose, gave Mrs. Murden so much Satisfaction, that both she and Mr, Murden quite oppressed the doctor with their civilities; and repeatedly assured him, that they would make it their first business, on their return to England, to restore him to the good opinion of all those who had desef ted him cruelly, for the sake of his superficial antagonist.
these assurances from Mr. and Mrs. Murden were truly Sincere when they were delivered, but an unexpected event gave a slight wound to the intimacy which was renewed between them and the doctor.
miss
A u A LIV la10ivjx\.i \JM.
miss Wallace, the now only unmarried female of that family, found So much benefit from her tour, and from the constant use of the waters, to the efficacy of which the regard and attention of her amiable sister Lady Frances, and the variety of new objects, not a little, perhaps, contributed, that she recovered her strength and spirits apace; the sickly paleness which had for a long time pver fpread her face, otherwise a very agreeable one, gave way to all the bloom of returning health : with that health also her vivacity returned, and she appeared So amiable in her person, and to be possessed of So Sweet a disposition, that young Murden, from looking on her only at first as an entertaining acc]uaintance, began to feel sentiments of a foster nature for her; which, as he freely encouraged them, grew far too violent to be controlled.
In this situation, he only concealed his passion, by not declaring it with
the
  1^9
the assistance of language; for it was easily to be Seen, in every feature of his face, by whom he had been robbed of his heart.
miss Wallace, not having vanity enough to imagine that his civilities had more meaning in them, than the little gallantries common among young people of different Sexes who f are pretty often together, received * his polite attentions about her with the greatest ease and good-humour; and thought, indeed, that, as an invalid, she had Some pretensions to them.
By that ease, however, and that good nature in her behaviour, Tvlurden was animated to proceed, till, from the particularity of his carriage, he Sometimes called up blushes in her cheeks, and drew the eyes of those who were in their company upon them, espe > dally the eyes of Mr. and Mrs. Murden, who did not, in the opinion cf miss Wallace, Seem to be pleased
vol. II I with
lyo   with their fon’s attachment to her : one day, therefore, when he was unusually assiduous, she begged him, but with great mildness of ipeech, to leave her, and to offer his civilities to the other ladies present,
The young gentleman started at this request, and, with a look which plainly discovered disappointment and regret at not having his poiiteness accepted of in the manner he wished. Said, “Are, then, my assiduities dis, “agreeable to you, miss Wallace ?’*
As this question was uttered in a tone as if he should be greatly hurt to find them So, and as his good qualities, together wnth his constant and public partiality for her, had made a Small impression upon her, she replied;
“No, sir; but they may be, possi ‘‘ blv, not agreeable to Mr. and Mrs.
Murden.”
As
■ tvir. WALLACE. 171
As Soon as these words had fallen from her lips, she was shocked at the impropriety of them; and, by blushing extremely for the fault which she had, according to her own feelings, committed, made such an addition to the number of graces which adorned her countenance, that he determined to do, at that moment, what he had not before absolutely resolved on.
In consequence of this Sudden determination, he made a short, but full and very tender confeshon of his Sentiments; a confession, wshich if Sne, had been Sure of the consent of his family, would have given her much more pleasure;; discovered, however, no anger, but a great deal of confusion.
“If you are Serious, sir, ” Said she, i^hen she could find words ready for utterance, “I am much obliged to “you for the favourable opinion which you entertain of me; but I am, notwithstanding, almost in i 2 dined
17
■ “dined to wish that you was not /‘serious, as I fear that your send ments, with regard to me, will not ‘‘ be approved of by those who have "*' a right, and who expect to be consulted about your choice.”
N “If you will promise, miss Wall“
“’* replied he, “that my love “shall meet with no other objection, “I will undertake to Settle everything “to your Satisfaction.”
A tacit acquiescence was ail that he could obtain from her.
He went to communicate his feelings to his father, and she went upon a similar errand to hers.
With her father, miss Wallace found her mother, her brother, and Lady Frances: she should act, she thought, very improperly, inconcealing — from them what had passed between her and young Murden, tho’ she did not expect anything from his prepossessions
  173
poffessions in her favour, and therefore opened her heart without the least reserve.
As they all approved of the character and manners of young Murden, they sincerely wished that his family might make no objection to his choice.
Poor Nancy, who now began to be Serioufiy interested in his success, waited for his return with a palpitation of her heart, which was only perceived by Lady Frances.
Murden Soon reappeared, but with a dejection in his air, which left her but few hopes to keep flattery alive. The smallness of her fortune, he told her (with tears in his eyes), was the only reason which his father and mother had given for not complying with his wishes; having informed him, that, with the Settlement they should make on him during their I 3 lives.
lives, he could not Support a family in a tolerable manner.
Cn the communication of this intelligence, heart breaking as it was, Mils Wallace, with the greatest fortitude, not only gave up all thoughts of being happy with her lover, but itudiouily employed herself in administering consolation to him; and then desired him not to Seek any farther opportunities to lee her, as, by So doing, he would cniy increase their mutual uneasiness.
He heard her; but Seemed So loth to return an answer to what she had said, that she was obliged to make, use of her most pressing entreaties and by those entreaties appeared, though innocently, to interest herself So much in his happiness, that she added new fuel to the fiames of love, which she had already raised in his bosom: : could, in short, by no arguments nor Solicitations prevail on
him
  iy^>
him to relinquish his pretensions to her.
Just at that critical instant. Lady Frances, not knowing that they were together. Surprised them.
Plainly discovering their distress, she quitted them instantly, without articulating a Single vvord, and flew to her husband. To him she related what she had observed, and whth her lovely eyes moistened with Sympathetic tears, she entreated him to grant hct request, and to make the addition to nancy’s fortune which Mr. Murden might reasonably expect, if he would, inconsequence of it, consent to her becoming his daughter.
Wallace, struck with the tender generosity of her behaviour, So diametrically opposite to that of his first wife, adored her for it, and was ready to devour her with fondness; he clasped her to his grateful bosom with a I 4 pressure
pressure which very forcibly proved the fervour of his love.
The unexpected demand, and the charming manner with vshich it was conveyed, deprived him for Some time of the powers of Speech : his tongue was chained tip : he was dumb.
Worcfs at last found a passage; though he, over and over again, declared, that he could not find words Sufficiently expressive to describe her excellence, or his own lively sense of it. ‘‘ I have nothing to do, ” continued he, lifting up his eyes, “but to
admire, and to obey.”
Upon the doctor’s entrance, he, in the most affectionate terms, enlarged on his fanny’s generosity and affection.
The good old man, while the tears of parental fondness stowed fast down his venerable cheeks, Said, with
a rapa
rapturous elevation of his voice,
“Did I not Say, my dear George,
‘‘ that she Was an angel come to bless “us all
Lady Frances, to change the Scene, which grew too pathetic to be Supported by herself, and with which, file thought, they were too much affected, Said to the doctor, addressing herself to him with the most winning Smile, “Come, my dear Sir, let me “persuade you to go and tell Mr.
“Murden what he may expect with
my sister.”
The doctor left her, raising up his eyes and hands, full of admiration, while Wallace gazed on her in ecstatic silence, as if she was a Superior being.
When Wallace told the earl, who then joined them, what had been the Subject of their conversation, he very • much commended his daughter, for Jiavingendeayoured to procure a Settle,, ^ ment
jyo ineiriistoryoi
merit for miss Wallace So agreeable to her, and generoussy offered to Supply Wallace with any Sum for which he might have occasion.
“Gracious Heaven!” cried Wallace, throwing up his eyes, in which the tears stood trembling, so much was he, affected by the nobleness of
Lord T -- -- ’s behaviour, and by the
equally heroic carriage of Lady Frances, “give me merit to deserve this “excellent, this lovely creature, and “enable me to return the obligations “which I am already under to you, “my lord, for having bestowed her on me; I alk no more.”
“My dear Son, ” replied the earl, quite moved with the effusions of his grateful heart, “you more than repay “me, by your tenderness to my ami able girl.”
^ The doctor, when he left his Son and daughter, considered, that as Murden had never applied to him,
it
it would be better to inform his daughter of what her good Sister had proposed to do for her.
While he was so considering, the young gentleman, who had torn himself from her with the utmost reluctance and regret, returned to tell her, that he would make another attempt to Soften his father’s inflexibility; and that he would try to learn from him what he intended to give up to him : being assured, that she had been thoroughly instrudteel by her exemplary mother, in all kinds of ceconomical knowledge; adding, that though stte deserved more, because she was an ceconomist. She could make the less do, till Something turned out in their favour.
Finding her melted into tears, he eagerly alked the cause of them.
Being told that they flowed from her rejecting upon her amiable sister’s. kindness to her, he flew to his Sather,
1 6 and
and his first: words vere“ “a lovely creature is Lady Frances !”
“How, Charles!” Said Mr. mur den, ‘‘ Have you changed the object “of your passion So Soon Lady Frances Wallace will, I fancy, be more uncomeatable than Mist “Nancy; and I should abhor myself “for harbouring any designs upon a “woman so discreet, so amiable as “she is, and so happy in her husband“
“sir, ” replied Charles, “I P harbour no improper designs;; “by her interposition, I miay become. “related to her, if you will condescend to hear me with patience.”
“Well, then, ” Said the old gentleman, “let us hear how you will ‘ ■ bring yourself off.”
Charles then told his father what he had heard from miss Wallace; and he consented to the match, if they
would
would only advance two thousand pounds more to the fortune which her brother had already given to her.
these conditions were most cheer fully agreed to, as Soon as they were made known.
In a short time afterwards they all returned to England; and the young people were married, with the entire approbation of their parents on both sides; and went to live in a pleasant little village, between that wherein, the doctor dwelled, and the place where the elder Mr. Murdenst estate lay.
Mr. Murden, when he returned to the North, did not forget the promise which he made at the Spa; he, with true pleasure, related everywhere the prodigious benefit which his wife had received from the prescriptions of Dr. Wallace, and, with equal pleasure, expatiated upon the noble behaviour of his Son and Lady Frances.
All
J.HV' XV 1 ^ v.\p m
All the doctor’s patients, V ho had deserted him, flocked to him again; So that he had Soon more practice than he could w'dl attend to, and was Soon in a condition to offer to refund the two thousand pounds which Wallace had advanced to forward the marriage of his sister; but neither he nor Lady Frances would receive a farthing ofthatsum; they only desired, as the rest of his children wtre amply provided for, that he would reserve it for his daughter Nancy.
\
'END OF THE LAST BOOK.
CONTENTS
O F T H E
FIRST VOL UM E, BOOK I.
INTERVIEW between Mr. Brereton and Mr. wallat^e — Some account of Mr. Brereton and his family — The miss Breretons and a young lady, their friend, described j^description of   with
an
an account of his family connexions — His behaviour to the young ladies, and theirs to him; receives a letter from a friend in London, and prepares to leave Mr erere ton’s; pressed by that gentleman to return soon with his friend — The behaviour of the Miss Breretons and miss Myers, the morning of his departure —  meets with Sir' Edward russly in London — ■ Conversation between them — Sir Edward returns with  — • The domestic amusements in Mr. Breretonst family interrupted by the arrival of Mr. monson : his different behaviour to the two sisters, and the difference in their carriage to him — monson embarrassed by the decay of his passion for Maria, and his new inclination for Cecilia, both prepoffessed in favour of  — Sir Edward russly and miss
Myers
C U IN 1 IL IN 1 Myers equally hampered by the entanglements of love — Conversation between Sir Edward and   which ends more to the Satisfaction of the former than of the latter — Cecilia distressed by the behaviour of Mr. monson to her — maria’s political conduct developed — • cecilia’s disquietude increased byacon versation with Sir edward— —
^ Brereton, irritated by the duplicity of monsonst carriage, lets him know that his continuance in his family will not be agreeable — monson returns to Maria — A disasterupon the water throws the whole party into confusion, and occasions the most disquieting sensations to more than one person in it — Wallace, embarrassed by the behaviour of the two sisters to him, determines to repair to his chambers in the Tern.. — monson is obliged to decamp —
Sir
sir Edward, in the absence of Wak lace, redoubles his assiduities to Cecilia, notwithstanding 'her coldness to him — Wallace visits Mr. Brereton occasionally — The different manner of his reception at those times, by Mr. Brereton, miss Brereton, and Cecilia — nstllce receives a letter from his eldest sister, which sills him with great uneasinefs, and occasions a visible alteration in his appearance — Sir Edward and Mr. Brereton use their utmost endeavours to make him disclose the cause of it; but in vain — Mr. Brereton is at last acquainted with it by Maria, who had herself accidentally discovered it — Mr. Breretonst Sentiments on the perusal of miss wallace’s letter, and consequent behaviour — maria’s agitation, and satissaction afterwards — Mr. Brereton writes a letter to Dr. Wallace; the various Sensations which that letter occasioned
C O N T E N T S. stoned in the doctor’s family — Wallace, while he is Searching for his sister’s letter, receives an invitation from Mr. Brereton, and complies with it — The astonifliment at his return to the village Soon afterwards increased by a letter from his father — Is found by Sir Edward in a striking Situation — cecilia’s emotions
O
and delicate embarrassment on the projected marriage of her sister described — Affectionate interview between Wallace and Eleonora; the former persuaded by the latter to marry Maria; his ruminations upon the Singularity of his condition; is determined, under the influence of the most generous motives, to marry miss Brereton — The reception of Mils Wallace by Mr. Brereton, and her reception by the young ladies particularly distinguished — An interesting gar den con vcrsation between
U U IN 1 XV 1 S. tween Mr. Brereton and   miss Wallace and miss Brereton, decisive in favour of Maria — Sir Edward, transported by an interview with Mr. Brereton, presses Cecilia to make him completely happy; and with much difficulty obtains her consent — miss Wallace makes a conquest at the Opera; throws her lover into a great embarrassiment by her family connexions, and by her residence at Mr. brereton’s — miss vvallace hurt by the behaviour of Maria — The marriage between Wallace and Maria retarded by an unlooked-for event — The different behaviour of the two sisters upon the cccasion; and their Separation — monson, by an equivocal letter, lessens himself in the eyes of Eleonora, when he had just made an impression upon her heart, and is rejected with contempt — Cecilia and Eleonora leave the village, and go to Maria and
Miss
CONTENTS.
miss Myers in London — Walkce, prompted more by honour than lo * e, to i*atify his engagements with M js Brejreton, is pressed by Maria to give up business— — Ion, in Spite of rli the opposition which he meets with pursues Eleonora with unweaiied per -- severance.
BOOK
CONTENTS.
BOOK II
WALLACE, unacquainted with monsonst letter, wishes to forward his addresses to Eleonora, who, from the Seeming contrition of his behaviour, feels herself inclined to pity him — Preparations for the marriage between Wallace and miss Brereton — Sir Edward urges Cecilia to make him happy; is Seconded by Eleonora, and at length receives a Satisfactory answer — cecilia’s motives for marrying Sir Edward enumerated — Sir edward’s generosity taken notice of — The behaviour of Maria when Sir Edward informed her of his happiness— — behaviour of miss Myers upon the Same occasion described — Sir Edward alarmed by the dangerous ifiness of miss Brereton,
on
C O N T E N T S. on cecilia’s account — 'ceciiia’s noble and disinterested behaviour upon the occasion — ^tsheir marriage and departure — The marriage between Wallace and Maria consummated — Eleonora unhappily situated after the departure of Cecilia, and the marriage of her brother; meets with an accident in the garden — An unexpected person sties to her assistance, and her recovery is followed by a tender conversation between them — eleonora’s situation rendered more and more disagreeable by the malicious machinations of miss Myers, who endeavours to Spirit up Mrs. Wallace both against her husband and against his Sister — A dialogue between Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, in which the latter appears in a very unamiable, and the former in a very respectable light — Eleonora doubly chagrined by her brother’s not receiving her hints with regard to Mrs. Wallacest behaviour agreeably
to
CONTENTS, to her wishes — monson, upon a considerable addition to his father’s fortune, re folicits his permission to make his addresses to Mils Wallace, but receives a discouraging answer — He, writes a letter to Eleonora in a very different style from his former epistle — Eleonorast answer to it, by which monson is very much disconcerted — f Eleonora accompanies Mrs. Wallace and miss Myers to Tunbridge — monson is alarmed there by a rival — Mr. bladen’s assiduities about Eleonora make him burn with jealousy, and her encouragements of them almost render him distracted; by mistaking her motives he is exquisitely miserable — By a cruel alteration in his behaviour to her in consequence of his disquietude, he produces an happy eclairciffement — The envy of Myers is inflamed more than ever — She endeavours to incense Sir Robert monson farther against his Son, by acquainting
V W X Lj Jl X o.
quainting him with his firm attachment to Miss Wallace — Conversation ibetween Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, characteristic, on eleonora’s account ' — Wallace, pained by intelligence concerning his father and mother, makes an handsome addition to their income — Sir Robert monson presses his Son to marry a woman whom he has chosen for him, who absolutely refuses to comply vrith his request — Eleonora affected by a report circulated by Myers; still more affected by the behaviour of monson at the play during the performance — Eleonora is assisted by monson in the playhouse passage, and conducted to the coach; but without being convinced that her apprehensions concerning his fidelity had been groundless — Eleonora receiving new mortifications every day from  and miss Myers, intreats her brother to Send her home, who pro vol. II K cures
W in X XL IN X O.
cures a chaise for her — monson, after an affectionate conversation with Wallace, Sets out in order to be near Eleonora — He is taken ill at the end of his journey; and is attended by Dr. Wallace : an interesting dialogue between them, which is soon afterwards followed by another full as interesting between the doctor and his daughter — A Second dialogue between monson and the doctor entirely Satisfactory to the latte— — at once pained and transported by her father’s intelligence about her lover — The doctor conducts Eleonora to Mr. monson, but refuses his consent to their union without Sir robert’s approbation — The death of Sir Edward russly — Lady russly invites Eleonora to come and stay with her; the doctor urges her to accept of her ladyship’s invitation — Eleonora is all obedience, and prepares for her journey — Pathetic parting between
monson
vy X X
monson and Eleonora — The death of Mrs. Wallace in childbed— — too much dejected to remain in the; house in which his wife died, goes down to his father’s — Makes a visit to Lady russly, on his Sisterst invitation — Affecting Scenes between him. and Lady russly — They all come to London together — monson revisits Eleonora upon the most agreeable footing — Lady russly and Wallace too much intendered by each other's company, she determines to return to Oxfordshire — Wallace astonished at the sight of a lady at the Opera; more so when he is acquainted with
her name — Lady Frances T- -- -- --
chagrined by the information which she receives concerning Lady russly — A digreshon relating to Lady Frances.
kt the
- ** b
- : « • >
• * ’, r.. 4 ^
'■, ... * ^.
) w ■ / ' r :. ' -. ■ ‘ ^ -
« t
f
■». *.., • jt
%
'1 - ■ - ■ ■ ' C ■■, ^-
U'’ .' - " >■' I, - ri' '
'' ..r -.
I ^
V V •'
* > ■. •' " *. 'I *- ' *
■■. -■ ' ■ ■ ■ .'‘cl
■ - ^ -- ✓. •
/
'■ ■ ■' ' ' I - - -. V.,., ■ '
J *
'•_ •„. i,; '. / •; ^ -;
rf. • * \
'
\ * ^ ^
I
-= ■
• f * * *
s « * ' -, * 1 *
4 .t l‘
't.. ..■^■
. _ * -'••: .>/
'' ' ^ 'ri,. * *
'• i ■/»*. : •
V : V ■- ■ C ■
%
— » \
♦ ' *
'■ 'N
'■ -■ ■ ■ - - ' '
%
#
r • *.
'» '
, «
'^ V
■ / .' ' '
4
/
^ ^ $
. « ^ ^
CONTENTS
OF THE
SECOND VOLUME.
BOOK IIL
Lady Frances finds all her inclination for Wallace when she was only Fanny Lelly, renewed for him — She opens her heart to her indulgent, father — reasons for her not being recognised either bywallace or Eleonora — Wallace greatly embarrassed about K s the
CONTENTS, the resemblance between Lady Frances and his Fanny — Forms a generous plan for the promotion of his sisterst happiness — Interview between him and Sir Robert monson, in which Sir Robert appears in no advantageous light — Wallace, on his return, meets with an unexpected reception from Mr. monson and Eleonora, wlio are both thrown into a disagreeable situati on by the obstinacy of Sir Robert — Lady russly declares her intention to return to Oxfordshire: many tender Scenes occasioned by that intention between her and Wallace; last Scene particularly So — Lady russly unbosoms herself to Eleonora, and Sets off early in the morning, unable to bear a final adieu — monson disappointed— — Frances, at once piqued, and tenderly affected by the apparent neglect and indifference of Wallace, becomes very much indispofed, but afraid to inform
her
CONTENT S. her father of the cause of her illness — The arrival of Sir George Wallace from abroad — Sir George Seta out to yisit a friend in the country — Affords assistance to a lady in a dangerous situation — Lady russly, not being quite recovered, supposes her deliverer to be her brother-in-law, as there was a great resemblance between them— — humours the deception — Lady russly not disagreeably undeceived — Not being in a condition to be carried home, Eleonora is Sent for by Sir George, who is shocked at the sight of her ladyship — Sir George employs his cousin to Speak in his favour|to Lady russly, and conceives no Smiall hopes from the poiiteness of her behaviour to him : is unwearied in his assiduities about her — His passion for her increases every hour — He writes a pressing letter to Wallace in town, to exert his friendship for him — Wallace in his letter to K 4 Lady
CONTENT S.
Lady Rufsly pleads very earnestly for his cousin — Eleonora, after a conversation with Lady russly, advises Sir George to absent himself for Some time — He determines to tell Lady russly that a return to Italy for the restoration 6f his health is absolutely necessary — By that information he carries his point : unable to bear his departure, she consents to the completion of his wishes — Sir George in the midst of his transports at his approaching happiness, is damped by jealousy : but by an intercepted letter from Lady russly to   all his Suspicions are removed — • He is at once transported with joy, and covered with shame — Lady russ « behaviour upon his imploring her pardon, and endeavouring to defend the temerity of his conduct — He is forgiven; but is too much hurt by a coolness in Lady ruistly’s, behaviour
to
CONTENTS.
to him, to be quite at his ease— — to Eleonora and Wallace; but is forced to wait with patience for the operations of time in his favour > neglecting, however, nothing to re coveriler ladyship’s good opinion — He is at last, by a little incident, made completely happy — Wallace, accidentally strolling into Ranelagh, renders himself Serviceable to Lady Frances, and is accosted by her.
BOOK
CONTENT S.]
BOOK IV
WALLACE, embarrassed by her ladyship’s Speaking to him, after having made his bow, prepares to leave her — A question concerning his family detained him, but after he had made an answer to it, he retires immediately full of strange emotions — Lady Frances opens her heart to her father, who affures her that he will do ail in his power to make her happy without offending her delicacy — Lord T -- carries his daughter
into the village in which she had been brought up — Some of the feelings of Lady Frances deferibed, upon her
arrival there — Lord T consults
Dr. v/allace about his daughter’s health — The doctor’s behaviour at the sight of Lady Frances, and her’s
upon
C O N T E N T S.
upon the affecting occasion -- -- -- A
pathetic meeting between her ladyship and Mrs. Wallace; and a not le: s moving one between her and Nancy — Little George Wallace introduced to Lady Frances — The arrival of  — He dreads an interview with Lady Frances — Wishes he had been absent; but remains where he is, from filial and fraternal affection — v/allace and Lady Frances equally perplexed on their first: meeting — Become more free in their behaviour to each other upon a nearer acquaintance — Lord T -- -- -- — urges his
daughter to let him make proposals to Wallace; but she pleads the indelicacy of such a proceeding in opposition to it — Tender conversation between Wallace and Lady Frances — Wallace is Seized with a feverish disorder; recovers from it; but appears to be in a declining condition — He
deter
CONTENTS, deterriiines, unable to confine his passion for Lady Frances within his own bosom, to fly from her— — detained by an affecting incident — Lord
X— — -- -- determined to put an end
to his daughter’s .anxieties on wallace’s account — Interesting dialogue between Wallace and his lordships — Wallace sties with rapture to lady Frances — Preparations for their nuptials — Generous behaviour of Wallace to his Sisters, before his marriage — Sir Robert monson brought to a sense of shame for hi's carriage to   and to consent to the union between Eleonora and his Son — Doctor Wallace advised by Lady Frances and his Son to try whether the German Spa would not contribute to the restoration of nancy’s health, removes himself and family to that place, except Eleonora, accompanied by Sir George and Lady
Wallace
Wallace — Doctor Wallace meets with an old neighbour there who had deserted him, among the rest of his patients; for whohi, with the humanity of a Christian, forgetful of injuries, he prescribes, and is of considerable service to her — Mrs. Murden • and her husband both promise the doctor to do all in their power to raise his reputation in the character of a physician, upon their return to England — The intimacy between the, Wallaces and the Murdens interrupted by young Murden's inclination for Nancy, who was quite recovered by her spa journey — The two lovers disappointed by the objection of old Murden to the smallness of Miss wallace’s fortune — That objection happily removed, by the generosity of Wallace, at the intercession of Lady Frances — An affecting family fcene in consequence of the noble behaviour
of
of her ladyship — Young Murden flies to make another attempt to move his father in his favour, and proves successful— — and Mrs. Murden punctually perform in England the promises which they made at the Spa; and the good old doctor Spends the remainder of his days with uninterrupted felicity • happy in himself, his family, and his affairs.
FINIS.
