 ﻿if .
NEW VOYAGE
TO THE
ISLAND of POOLS,
\
/
/
^ Representing the
Po Lie Y, Go VER.NMENT,
AND
PRESENT STATE
O F T H E
STULTITIANS.
I By a Noble Venetian.
/»/2rz^wtotheright Honourable,
The Lord FERDINANHO.
I Tranpated from the Italian.
I “Mukaque co/j^wey?/terris allabimur illisj,
I Quas procul hinc cernis *, procul hinc tibi (cerne)
I videnda eft „
I “INSULA, visa mihi. Ovid. Met. 1.14.'
L 0 N D 0 Ni
I vx\xitt^ tot John Morphew nt2it Stationeds hati, i'ltd. |
N
- *
f
V
1
h
*
I
V i ■ ■ ■
S
C ■ • *;
m •
\
*, ■
♦
, '; iy -•■• y; ^ %
y,
\
\
. *. '
%
\
T
/
V
N
X
1
\
t
4. ■ • - t
i
i
\
I
#
mmmftm„mf, M, in ii imm — yy — i — iwwi — — — — wyibi — I — I. III, L 1.1 iiihn>ml i w iwii i
\
O T H E
■
%
^ ^ ^
v.
. •' ’ *
\
%

^'""'wf^/lough this ISLA N D <?jsfools is not
I to be met with in the Map of the Worlds »' yet yon may gfto/s at the Right Name of it, as well as its Situation, by the MANNERS of the Inhabitants. The People are not
STULTITIANS by Nature, ha Praaice. Whin
t > r ^
Pbliey and Government is rightly managd, they deserve the hest CHARACTER in Europe, f and are the Happiest People under the Sun 3 fa --
ving that they are never wholly free from Corrup
j; tiombothin CHURCHW STATE.
The VOYAGE was as Pleasant and Safe to
; V US as we could wish 3 and the PLACE, so much
T famafor VICIS SIT U D E S Fortune and
r Foolery, every way anjwerd our Expestations, f upon Landing, We found the COUNTRY
hugely well fiockt, as other Places are, with Good
Q
JO
'fy
To the READER.
and Bad of AH fortt of People. But fime novel
Distinstions^ <?/high churcb, Low church, No Church, New Whig, Old Whig and Crafty!
breed such DIVISIONS among em 3 that they render the ISLAND a little linfafe, or at lead Unfortunate 3 for it is never more in DANGER than it is of \ T SELF; / mean, of Intestine
Broiles, and C O N T R A S T s its own
Bowels.
So far our AM THOR And now the Translator hopes, that fitch ingenious Observations upon the Policy, Government and Present State of the STULTITIANS, as are fet forth in This NEW VOYAGE here, will be as highly • diverting to the Reader in E N G LIS H, as they have appear d in ITALIAN; and that the BO OK will fare no Worse Public for being of a Foreign extraq:, or Fanciful Original, under the feign’d Cover of the ISLAND of
FOOLS.
. -
'. • ‘ *
> >
I
;
s
;
t'
'' '
. * C •
/
D '
s '
% •
\
* •
A
^ t
CO
>
M -- -- -- - ■ .1.. r ■
_ _ _ __ _ _ _ r ^
A
NEW VOYAGE
TO THE
ISLAND of FOOLS,
B Y A
NOBLE VENETIAN.
SIR,
TH E Task you are pleas’d to impost upon
me might be perform’d with less Difficulty if I were not so much a Stranger to the na ture. Language, and Cujioms of the People you command me to describe. However, that you may see how ready I am to obey you, I have ventur’d to draw up an apjlrad of all that I think either worth your Notice or my Obstrvation.
We landed in the ISLAND OF FOOLS the
23d of September last, at a Srnall, but commodious bar hour in the jkejlern Part of the Country, from whence we Set forward the next Morning in order to make the best of our way to the Metropolis,
My Companion, who was a Boglander, and Spoke the Language tolerably well, did all he could to divert me upon the Road; and indeed by virtue of a good asiiirance and fbme other useful Salifications which the Gentlemen of his Country are naturally gifted with, we
B pass’d
2
pass’d over the first Day with as much Satisfastion a could be expected.
The two following days nothing of moment happen’d, only our Landlord where we lodg’d entertained us with the different Sentiments of the Gentlemen of the Neighbourhood, from whence we could draw no other Inferences but that there were a world of Fa bions and Divijtons between two Parties that were furiously contending for the Superiority.
About Seven the third Night we came to the chief City in the Wejlern part of the ijland, where we were inform’d we might be accommodated with a Coach to the end of our Journey. The Place, tho’ none of the finest I have Seen, was extremely well Situated, in a wholsbme Air, and in a very beautiful Country, about three Miles distant from the Sea, from whence, some Years before, they had cut So good a Pastage that a Ship of threescore or fourscore Tun may be brought with Safety into the very Heart of the Town.
We were oblig’d to continue here three or four Days before we could get Places, in which time we had leisure to view the Cathedral, and to inform ourselves in everything that the Place afforded. My com paniqn, who had liv'^d in Spain and Portugal, had Soon contradfed an Acquaintance with Several of the mer chants, who trade to thole Countries: One of ’em invited us to dine with him, after Dinner, over a Bot ^ tie of very good Port jvine, entertain’d us with the following Relation.
Sir, says he, addresiing himself to me, / perceive you are m absolute Stranger to this ijland, and perhaps for want of a right Information of the Nature, Policy, and Covernment of the Stultitians, and from our outward appearances, may take us for a People very different from what we have been reprejented in other Countries.
For my own part I ftaiit pretend to give you either our History r Character, when you come to the Metropolis,
whither
the  . $
whither I hear you are bound, youu soon find that the World has not mifiaken us, and that we have been guilty of fb many ridiculous and unaccountable ashons that no Nation under Heaven can equal our Folly, and that we are in reality an  .
Here my Compamon broke in : Sir, says he, I have been in mojl Countries, and seen mofi q)urts of Europe, where I have often beard the Island of Fools commended to the Skies for the Bravery of the Inhabitants, the goodnejs of the Soil, the pleasantness of the Climate, and above all, for its happy Situation with refpeb to Trade and Commerce.
AU this is true, replies the Merchant, Providence has been extremely kind to us, and we have all the Advantages you mention, with a great many more to the highefi per feuion •, but what do they all signify, unless we could be persuaded to make a proper use of'em.
Sir, I have as much refpeb for my Native Country as any Man that was ever born in it, hut notwithfianding that, J cannot sofar contradib my own Reason and Experience to afiirm that we are a People any wayi considerable either inwisdom, Loyalty, or Moral Virtues, which I take to he the dtfiinguifinng charaber of a wise Nation, and the true Fundamentals of good Government.
If your Companion would have given me leave! would have troubled you with a fimt Detail of the present fate of the Stultitians ^ which after having drank the Princes Health and Prosperity to the isle he began to this effedi.
Of all the Nations in the World there is none that I know of So easily surpriz’d into an Opinion of anything, and So entirely govern’d by Humour and pas fion as the Stultitians, there’s no more to do to prepare them for Mutiny, Rebellion, or any general Undertaking, but to rome the people’s Fancies with Ibme new Notions or projebs which they greedily run away with without considering whither there be ei
B 2 there
4
there Truth, reasbn or Probability in ’em 5 like Hogs, put them out of their way and they run direduy forward till they come to a stand, and So perhaps they may stop to take a little Breath, and then commonly they turn about and run back again with greater Fury than they came on.
What good ^altfcatiom they may have to bal lance this fbolish one, I own I am not master of. If it was worth your leisiire I could produce a thousand Instances of such hairbrain d ridiculous Actions, that would Sufficiently convince you, that never any Nation, that Nature and Providence have been So exceedingly kind to, have made So little use of their Advantages ^ but, Sir, ’tis not my Intention to detain you with Particulars, when you come to that great Town whither you are bound, your own Experience, with the Accounts you will there be furnisn’d with, will soon Supply you much better than I can pretend.
In general, this I take to be the genuine Temper and almost universal Practice of the People of this He. They will Pray, Fawn, Lye, Flatter, Swear, for fwear, .Murder, Rebel, Cheat, Betray one another, and perpetrate any manner of Villainy to gratify their different Sentiments, Inclinations, and Interest, Powerful Interest! has got the ascendant and governs everybody but a few Fools and Rakes.
’tis for Interest the Soldier wades through Seas of Blood without considering the Justice or Injustice of the Caust he is engag’d in.i For this the triejls Preach and Pray, Trim, Cant, Swear, and often forswear themselves. For this the lawyersd.ie^\ in Perjuries and Fprgeries. For this Men turn Fools and Rafcah, and fink themselves below the Dignity of their Nature, and the Character of Rational Creatures.
In this ijle Virtue has almost entirely lost its Prerogative, gnd Meo grow Great chiefly by their Vices,
It
S the  . 5
It is not here how Learned, wise or Brave you are, or how Guilty or Innocent, but how much or how little you are worth. The Smallest Faults of a Poor Man are Villainies, and he is often utterly ruin’d for meet Trifles, whilst the Wealthy Knave carries off his Exorbitant Cheats and Extortions without. Inquiry, and has a Set of Mercenary Flatterers always ready to defend his charaber and to adore his Grandure.
Among all out great Men and high Pretenders there’s
not one in fifty, I speak it by Experience and with great regret, my Lord, that has either Honour, Honesty, Common Justice or generosity. The Histories of the Noblemen of Ancient Times give us an Account, that they were ifife, Brave, jujl, Good and Hospitable, but the truth of this will not stand the tesl in our Times.
Our great Men are all degenerated and become Slaves either to their Avarice, Ambition, Revenge, or what’s worse, to their Follies and Vices. Some of them are profess’d Rakes, and Squander away their Strength and their Substance in the pursuit of Riots, Whoredom, and all manner of Wickedness and Folly. Others are no less Scandalous for their Griping and Penury, and for their Knavish Arts and Stratagems to fill their Coffers and promote their own private Interest.
Some there are, I wish, my Lord, you may never have any occasion to be acquainted with them, that use all Mankind as their Tools and Properties, feed them with flattering Hopes and deceitful Smiles, only to crowd their Levees and aggrandise themselves. Merit they let starve, and employ few but Sencelejs Coxcombs and Mercenary Sycophants ^ or if by chance they are oblidg’d to make use of a Man of merit, they Suffer him to subsist upon mere Shams and empty Promises till he has done their business, and then they throw him aside among though Lumber, like the Scaffolding
.4
/
6
folding after the House is finish’d. If after long Attendance and much Drudgery and Fatigue he does get anything from them, they bring him under liich Limitations, and lay So many Restraints upon him, that it can never make him any tolerable Recompense for thelossof So much precious Time which he mighthave imploy’d to far better and more advantageous purposes than in the Service of such ungrateful Patrons.
If from these great Ones we cast our Eyes upon the generality of the Inhabitants, and view ’em altogether, what a strange Medley and confusion do they make: In one place you’ll see a Golledfion of dull Phlegmatic Wretches lolling at a Table, poring over a heap of news papers, and making ridiculous Remarks and Observations upon every Paragraph, and passing their senceless Opinions, and didating as confidently and majestically as if they had a Correspondence with most of the Cabinets in Europe, In another you’ll meet a gay Fop rattling about in his painted Chariot, more proud of his new Liveries and Equipage than his Understanding, which in many re fpeds he is as unfurnilh’d with as the pamper’d Beasts he is drawn by.
Here you may see a Sempjlrefs that has Jilted Some young Heir out of his Money and his Reputation, dress’d like the Daughter of a Nobleman. An oaft ler^s Son in a Scarlet Coat, with his Sword by his Side and a lac’d Hat, looking as big and furious as a Captain of the Guards, whilst Gentlemen of Birth and Quality are cloath’d in Rags and out at Heels, and made even the Jest of the Rabble.
Here rides an ignorant Fmperic in Velvet with his Gold chain about his Neck, and there trudges a Man pf Learning and hardly Shooes to his Feet, up to his Knees in Dirt. All Hats fly off to the Fool in Ojfice while the Man of Sense, that’s poor and out of Employ, is justled by Porters and Footmen, and infult j “d by every one he meets. Here
ike  . /
Here you may see Gamesters and Common Sharpers playing with Perfom of .^ality of both Sexes, and ca ress d by ’em' to a very high degree ^ a Sort of Scandalous Practice, I think, that was never heard of in any other Country but among the Stultitians, and is no very good Indication either of their wisdom or Conduist.
Sir, it would be endless to detain you with the many unaccountable Follies that every Day produces in this island, and I Should utterly tyre your Patience, as I am afraid I have done already, to give you their particular Recital 5 I will therefore only take the liberty to trouble you with a few general Instances and leave the rest to your own Observation.
Here I could not forbear asking hiin a ^ejlion ^ Sir, you were saying your Gamejlers and Common Sharpers were permitted to play with your Persons of ^lality. Such a thing I confess may be by accident, and I have now and then seen in other Countries, an Impudent Fellow with a Sine Coat and a gaudy Equipage that has got admittance, but he is no sooner discover’d but Some of the Company informs the Master of the House who he is, who looks upon it as a great Affront, and as an Act of the highest Insolence, and after having excus’d himself, orders his Servants to turn him out of Doors with the utmost marks of Contempt and Resentment: Pray therefore give me leave to ask you; Do these sort of Sparks Game and converse with your Ladies and Persons of ^ality publicly and without distinction; and are never they Severely reprimanded and kickm for their Impudence? I will not fiifpect the truth of anything you are pleas’d to relate, but to me this Seems such a monstrous piece of Folly, and reflects so much upon the Honour and Conduct of the Stultitians, that 1 profess, Sir, the Account furprises me.
It would surprise you much more, answers the Merchant, if you were at one of the Chocolate houfes near
the
\
8
the Court, to See what Swarms of these Vermin are intermix’d with Dukes,, Lords, Knights and Gentlemen, nay, even with the Senators and chief Mmijlers of State, and to hear how they Swear, Blaspheme and Domineer, and with what intolerable Sawcinejs and Impertinency they behave themselves.
Sharping and Cheating is become a standing Trade among the Stultitians, and many of the Cunning Men and able Workmen, as they call themselves, have past through their whole Lives in the highest Splendour and Luxury, that had no manner of Foundation or depen dance but purely Cheating and Sharping.
I confeis these things hardly merit belief 5 a wist Man can starce imagine there should be such a Fool in Nature as a persbn of Quality that puts himstlf upon the level with one that he knows makes Gaming his Livelihood, as he must do if he condestends to play with him for Money; and yet, Sir, this is matter of fact, and every Day produces a thousand Instances of it.
But, Sir, the frequent practice of thest things has entirely worn out their Observation. Here an ignorant Scoundrel that was originally but a Green Keeper's Boy games with a Lcrd treafurer, a Chimney sweeper with a .Marqiiifs of an Earl, a Black guard Boy with a Duchess ^ Pedlars, Tinkers, Tailors, oaji lers. Sec. with Generals and Colonels of the Army, and the Fiddler's Son throws at the fairest, sometimes at all the Lords 5 and this is done every Day, without a ny manner of Distinction, at the Groom porter s and at most of the Public Meetings both in Town and Country.
This foolish isle is a common Recepticle for the Sharpers and Cheats of all foreign Nations when they are grown Notorious at Home their next Refuge is the ijland of Fools, where they are secure to find thost among the Stultitians that will readily join with ’em
in
that  . p
m thb management of their Cheats and new invented Games, which at this time, notwithstanding the Law that was lately made to prevent ’em, are grown more numerous and barefac’d than ever.
Sure, Sir, there cannot be a greater Indication of a fenceless ill govern’d Country, than to shsfer such vast Numbers of these ufeless idle Creatures to live in common among the People, and to form them stlves into Select Sets and Societies for their better eonveniency of Sharping and Cheating.
About three Months past I was at the principal City of the isle, when a Gentleman of my Acquaintance told me, Jj 1 would pafs away a merry half Hour, he'd Show me a Sight that he believed the whole World could not parallels and accordingly he carry’d me to one of their Public gamiitg houfes, not far from the stay house.
The Room was very Commodious and handsbmljf furnish’d, and the majority of the Company were clean, and Some of ’em very rvell dressed, and in truths look’d like Gentlemen: Three or four of them perceiving us to be .Strangcts, and imagining we came to Game, presently made up to us. Gentlemen, saj^s one, if you are for trying your Fortune at Farroon, which is one of the fairejl and fnejl Games in the World you cannot find any place in Town where you may venture upon better frofpebs.
This is the largefi Bank, and the Gentlemen that deal are all Men of Jforth and Honour, and above anything that looks like Trick or Art. sajis another, that I found afterwmds was one of their Sweetners, and now and then got a Dinner and half a Crown for making a Set for ’em, If the Gentlemen are for Sporting, I'll put in a couple of Pieces with 'em and well go make .a pufi) at the whole Cargo: They have been broke two or three times this Week already, and I have a firong fancy by the run of the Cards, they emmet win tonight.
.0 Kow,
10
Now, Sir, you must know this Farreon is a Game that Some time past had been banished out of France The Prince of that Country, who it Seems is wiser than to Suffer Siich unlawful Games among his People, was no sooner inform’d of the mischiefs it had done to the Young Gentlemen and Officers of his Army, but he publishes an edib, prohibiting all Persons under the Penalty of being Sent to the galues either privately or publicly to play at it. The French Sharpers, who found the Advantages of it were too valuable to be lost, and judging it right, that there was no Country in Europe so proper for them to Set iip in as the ijland of Fools, presently make the best of their way hither, and without any manner of leave or regard to the Laws of the Nation, or the Custom of the Country, impudently open their Banks at most of the great Coffee’houfes at the Court End of the Town.
The Stultitians, tho’ they are not very good at Invention, are the best in the World at Improvements, and soon found out the Secrets of the Game 5 and accordingly Some join with the French, and others setup Tables of their own, among which this that I am now Speaking of is one of the chiefest, and as my Friend astiired me, brings in yearly to the Operators more than two thousand Pound Sterling.
I am not fb much a Master of the Game to be able to inform you what the real Advantages are ^ but one of the best Judges among them told me, he had calculated it at about five and twenty percent, and farther added, jthat if they could find the Gamesters, the Money was all Safe.
We went up to the Table, where one of the handy craft’s Men was then at Work. As near as I could Judge, there was about Fifty Pound in Gold and Siver, lay in two heaps before him, we looked on for about half
an Hour, in which little Interval we eoiild observe
Several
1
the  . i i
Several Young Sparks that appear’d like lawyer’s Clerks, or the Prentices of Some Eminent Citizens, lost all their Money, and Some of ’em Summs too considerable for such Youngsters to come fairly by.
When we had stay’d there till they had very near doubled their Bank, my Friend takes me aside to a private part of the Room ^ Come, says he, let’s Sit down here and drink a Dish of Chocolate, and i’ll entertain you a little with the Characters of some of the Members of this worthy Society.
You ste that lusty Fellow that’s dealing the Cards there, how affectedly he behaves himstlf, and with what formality he acts the Gentleman, he’s a kind of a broken Coachman, and take him out of the Business of a Sharper and you won’t hear a word of good Sense from him in a whole night’s Conversation, nor of one good Action in his whole Life.
That little meagre Spark that Sits at his Elbow, and looks like the pibure of Envy drawn after qvid.s pescription, is another of the Fraternity. He was a Partner and co operator with one of the most notorious Cheats this island ever had. Since he turn’d Sharper he is stt up for 3, poutition und a %xq3x moralij}, and dictates to the lower Class of Gamejlers with as much Gravity and assurance as if he had commenc’d .diajler of the Science. He is indeed a mighty Man with the Conjlables, Beadles, and Baylifis, and has So effectually brib’d himstlf into their Acquaintance, that he has the Insolence to imagine he has establish’d himstlf and his Partners above the reach of the Law. There are several more of this Gang, and most of ’em broken tradesmen, but. Sir, my knowledge of them is very Slender, and therefore I won’t pretend to give you their particular Character any further than this. That they make Cheating and game %ng the Sole business of their Lives, nd stick at nothing to promote that Interest,
Q % You
12 A Mew   
You See that Spark with the long Wigg, that Swears and ciirses So terribly, and gives ill Language, he iyas bred an Attorney., and had good business till he fell into the Hands of the Gamejiers, and first lost his Money and then his charaber, and is Since turn’d Sharper, and indeed is one of the Vilest in the whole Society. That Fellow that stands next him is one that has already marry’d Seventeen Several Women, and has had ten times as many Whores and ruin’d ’em all. He in the fine Laced Coat was a Baylifff Follower. Hein the Scarlet Cloak a, two peimy Barber, and he in the lac’d Hat, with the siiyer hilted Sword, a Broken Vintner.
You see thole two Gentlemen that Sit by thera stlves, one of ’em is a Krtight Baronet, of a very Ancient and Honourable Family, and had an Estate suitable to his Character, but the poor Gentleman had the misfortune in his Youth to loye Play, and the Sharpers got him into their Clutches, and never left him till they had strip’d him of every Shilling, and now he is forc’d to lliift and shirk about from one gaming house to another, and to commit abundance of little pittiful Actions tp support himself. The other is much under the same Circumstances, a very honest ingenious Man, and in his Nature abhors anything that’s mean or baste, butthe pure want pf Bread, constrains him to follow this cursed Gang, which I know he does with the utmost Shame and Regret.
‘ There stands poor unlucky Tom too, that wants. neither good Sense nor good Words to express it, and what’s more, is a Sober Man j a Man that if he had turn’d his Head to any other business but that of a Gamester, in all probabstity he must have made his Fortune long before this time, but his hard Fate determin’d him to that way of life, and now he’s undone. Such as thest, I think, ought not to be plac’d in the Rank with cotnmoyi Sharpers jo\x% should r^thej be look on 4s unfortunate th^n stl Men, •'
■ the  . 15
But there stands one next to him that has neither Jionefty, Sense nor Generojity, nor one good Qualificar tion fit to recommend him to Human Conversation j he is generally known among ’em by the Title of th good for nothing Fellow, and indeed ’tis the properest Title they can give him. He has lately got a little Money, no body knows how, which makes him So intolerably Frond, Insolent, and ill natiir'd, that everybody hates and avoids him.
To have done with ’em, I must needs own to you, that there are Several reasons that make Gaming their Sole Business, and to stick at nothing to propagate their Interest in that way, who abstracted from that are otherwise Men of good Parts and excellent Natural Endowments j but those are but very Sew, and a Man must be well acquainted with the Town, and an ex ^ct judge of Men and Things before he can pick ’em our. The Rooks and Scoundrels are by far the greater number, and whafs worst, increase st Sast, and are grown of late So intolerably Rude and Instlent, and commit st many open Violences and Outrages, that a Stranger that ventures among stm, runs the risk of being rob’d or murder’d.
Whether this growing mischief be most owing to the desects of our Laws, the Negligence of the Magistrate, or the Connivance of Some of thost they employ, I won’t take upon me to determine ^ but be that as it will. i’m confident the thing in itself is So highly standalous and pernicious in all respects, and reflects so much upon the Wisdom and Honour of ouf Country, that it tends extremely to strengthen the q pinion the World has of us, and to give us the just? est pretence to the Title of an ijland of Fools.
My Friend had went on further but up comes one they called Captain, whom we asterwards understood to be one of the Pentioners to the Bankers, who was
always in the Room ready to Fight or tether Bully
.1 ' Jqj«
V
14
for ’em, if there should be occasion; he told us, If we
had a mind to jit down, there would be room made for m at the Table. Upon which my Friend, who knew the Custom of the Place, and as I have been told Since, had formerly pay’d dear for his knowledge, made fbme Slight eicuse, and so we pay’d for our Chocolate nnd adjourn’d to the stay boufe, where we spent the jest of the Evening.
He had hardly made an end but one of the City Sergeants came to him from the Mayor, to desire his ' attendance at the Hall, upon which we took our leaves and return’d directlj^ to our Inn, in order to prepare pur selves for our Journey against the Coach let out, which was at four a Clock the next Morning.
My Companion and I were the first that went into the Coach, where we sat for about a quarter of an Hour before the Coachman could get the rest of the pasiengers in a readiness. The first that came was an old Senator and his Chaplain, after him came a Gentleman of the Inns of Court, and after him a Major that was lately landed from Spain, and was going to Court to Solicit the payment of the Troops that were in great want of Provisions and all sorts of Northeast eestaries in that Country.
About Nine we came to a little Burrough Town nbout fifteen Miles distant from the Place we Set our, where we rested for about half an Hour, to change the horses and to refresh our selves ^ here my Companion, who was an old Traveller, took care to inform himself concerning the Persons we were to travel with, and thought no body So proper for that purpose as the Landlady, who made no Scruple to tell him freely all she knew of them.
The old Gentleman, says she, is a .Member of Parliament for a little Corporation in the West. He is one of those they call Low churchmen, vastly Rick, but good
fit
\
V
the  . 15
f
for nothing; he owns the greatejl part of the Place where he is chose, and the Inhabitants, who generally hate him, send him vp more out of fear than refpeb. That grum looking Fellow that's with him is the Mimjler of his pa ptji), one that is neither Churchman nor good Diss lenter, but an equal mixture of both, and can be either, as his Interejl and the turn of the Times require. The Gentleman in Red I don't know, but the other is a Barrister at Law, and one of the jkorthiejl Men in the County, a well-bred hone Gentleman, and an excellent Companion, as you'll find by Experience before you come to the end of your fourney.
By this time the Horsts were put on, and the Coachman call’d for us to repair to our Places, So that my Companion had only tiihe to take me aside for a Minute and give me some general hints of what he had learned from the Landlady.
The best part of this Day was spent in common! Formalities, and in Such ^eftions and Answers that are customary for Strangers to use one to another, ^ only the .Major, who was a Perstn of a great deal of Wit and good-humour, would now and then talk a little merrily to the Old Gentleman and his Chaplain, and endeavour to divert the Company with some of his Adventures with the Spanish Ladies.
At Night when we came to the Inn, the Barrifier, ^ who was an admirable Caterer, with the Constnt of the Company, went into the Kitching and order’d the Supper, which with the Wine, Bread, Bear, came to about four Shillings a Head. Our Senator, with a great many Sighs and wry Faces, threw down his Crown and left his Chaplain to pay the other three Shillings, but withal told us, That if we propod A to live so extravagantly upon the Road, be and the dobot would eat by themselves.
This Set all the Company into a Laughter, especially the Major, who told him, That if he had been with
hijh
%
16 A New Voyage so
him a Campaign or two in Spain, he would not think foti^ Shillings an extravagant Price for so good a Supper j adding, that he had fifty times paid a pisiole for one that was much worse, and glad he could get it at that rate j upon which our Senator, with his Chaplain, left us and retir’d to their Chamber, and we heard no more of either till the next Morning.
The next Day, which was Saturday, nothing happen’d worth your notice, only some little Bickering)? between the Major and Senator, which the Barrijier always took care to compromise in order to preserve a’ good Harmony upon the Road. At Night, as soon as we came to the Inn, the dobor and his Patron call’d a ssparate Room : They had itot been there a above half an Hour besore a mesienger came from the Bishop to invite them to Supper with his Lordship, where I fuppose they lodg’d too, for we heard no more of them till Monday Morning the Coach was ready to Set outi
The Barrijier, who had often travell’d this Road and was very well acquainted in the Town, told us, If we thought proper to take a turn after Suppert, he knew an honejl Fellow that kept a Tavern, and he would undertake to procure as good a Glass of Wine as any was in
the ijland.
This Motion was no Sooner made but agreed to. To after we had regal’d ourselves with everything the Houle afforded, we took our Landlord with us and away we went. The Wine was good, and the Fellow was indeed a very honest merry Fellow: He told us Several diverting Stories, and particularly Some relating to the Bishop that were very extraordinary. How far his Reports are to be credited, I leave that to those that know him better? but if the tenth part of what he affirms of him be true, the Vices of all the Bishops in the universe amass’d together would not make So monstrous a Bulk as this Single prelate’s^ nor
would
«
A
that  . 17
would any People but an ijland of Natural Fools have fusfer’d themselves to have been So often misguided by Such an Impoftoi:. But, Sir, i’m afraid I press too Sar upon your leisure, So i’ll deser the rest till the next Post;
My Lord, I am with the mojl
profound regard, c
«
-- -- -- — -- -- • -- — - - - -- --
E T T E R II
»
My Lord,
I Will not trouble you with the little Occurrences of. the next day, which we spent cheerfully in walking about the Towm, and in viewing the Church, particularly the Spire, which is the highest, and one of the best pieces of Workmanship I ever law j in the Evening we returffd to our Inn, and went early to Bed, in order to be ready for the Coach in the Morning, which our Landlord told us would Set out by Three a Clock at the farthest.
The Senator and the dobor were beforehand vrith us, and had fix’d themselves in two of the best Places, before the Coachman or anybody in the House knew of their coming. We travelled the first Twelve Miles in the Dark, and So lost the prospect of one of the finest parts of the Island. About Nine we stop’d for an Hour, in which time a Gentleman that was riding express, brought News that the Stultitiaits had certainly concluded a Separate Peace with the Gauls which we perceiv d was a mighty Mortification to our Senator.
The .Major, who took all opportunities to make himself Merry with him, as Soon as we were Settled
D an
y
19
in our Places began to exclaim terribly against the ill Conduct of the War, and to recite a world of fbolilh Managements j insomuch, that the Old Gentleman grew very Telly, and told him, That he was 710 true btultitian that was for the conclujion of a Peace before the frji Lttentions of the War were anfwed.d, and made use of Several of the. Argumenrs, which as I afterwards found, were the common Cant of his Party, to strengthen his asiertion.
To which the Major reply’d. That nothwlthjland
tng he was an Officer, and got his Bread by the War, he was too much a Friend to his Native Country, to dsjire the continuance of it upon any oj his pretenjiojis, Sir, Says he, Pll be very free with you, in all the Countries where I have been, the Stultitians are looked upon as a common Property 5 and that to gratify the Ambition of a few covetous designing Knaves and Rafcah, the finefi Nation in the World has beeri reduced to the laji Extremity.
'Tis true, the confiant Succejfes that have attended the Stultitian Arms, have filled the European World with the highejl Ejieem of the Bravery of their Soldiers ^ but on the other hand, they say, that no Nation but the isle of Fools would have tamely Jhffiefd themselves to have been so fcandalovjly imposed upon, and fquandefd away so much of their ikealth, and so many of the Lives of these Gallant Men in the support of a Cause, which they could never expeb to gain anything by, but Ruin and Contempt..
This let the Old Gentleman into a terrible fit of
/
railing for half an Hour, without fiiffering anybody to put in a Wordj Pays he, I lost my Patience, when I hear the Officers of the Army pretend to argue at this Rate. You Soldiers, if you can get the nation’s Money, and live Great, and strut about in your lac’d Coats, and make a fine show, you think your bufiness is done, and perhaps you may imagine
• too
the  . 19
too, that if they do clap up a Peace, we’ll be such Fools to maintain you afterwards j but, Sir, Till tell you, you’ll find two words to that Bargain. If we have no War we have no occasion for Soldiers. They are a dangerous People in a time of Peace, and more, elj^ecially at a Juncture when the Nation is under So many jealousies and apprehensions,
Sir, Replys the Barrijier, I don’t pretend to Politics 5 my Business, and indeed my Inclination tend another way 5 nevertheless I must beg leave to tell you, I differ from you exceedingly in this Affair. If ever the Stiiltitiam had a real occasion for an Army, ’tis now, when there’s So many Arts and Stratagems us’d to Stir up Commotions, and to fill the people’s Heads full of jealousies and apprehensions.
You that are a Senator, whole peculiar business it ought to be to inform yourself into the State of your Country, cannot be unfensible, but that there is a Strong Party among us, that are extremely exasperated, and that would stick at no Methods to gratify their Revenge, and withal are labouring by all manner of ways and means to bring over the People to their Interest. In Siich a cast, I hope you will not think it Prudent for any Government to leave themstlves defenceless. I know a standing Army has been always an aversion to the Stultitiajts, and perhaps if our Malitia weto regulated as they ought to be, there would be no need of one : but till matters come to be entirely stttled, in my Opinion, it would be a very hazardous Experiment to venture to turn So many Persons of desperate Circumstances loost into the World at once to seek their Bread. What the consequence of that may be no Man knows, and I am unwilling to suggest.
If you are for a Regulation, there I heartily agree wish you, and look upon it to be absolutely neces sary, I will mdily grant you, that there have been
D 2 abuii';
20 A New Voyage ta
abundance of Men of corrupt and Scandalous Principles that have been artfully introduc’d both into the Fleet and Army. Men that are professed Enemies to to the Constitution, and to the true interest of their Country, and have openly declar’d themselves as Such upon all Occasions. Such as these, I think, ought immediately to be displac’d, and Perlbns of Loyalty and Integrity put into their Posts : and with sub mistion to our present Governoiirs, I take it to be a very high Reflection upon their Conduct, that it has been delay’d So long. If any misfortune Should happen upon that Account, they’d certainly be the first that would be involv’d in the Calamity, and perhaps have reasbn to repent if when it is too late.
The dobor, who to the best of my remembrance, had not favour’d the Company with one word, for the whole Morning, began now to open Surioufly 3 applying himself to his Patron. Says he, ’tis plain what these Gentlemen drive at, they are all Birds of the Same Feather, and ’tis but spending your Breath to no purpose, to Say anything more to ’em. You find. Sir, they aresf: bra Regulated Fleet and Army, a Regulated Mimjiry, and I believe would be glad of a Regulated Senate too. But what is all this Regulation for, but to destroy Liberty and Property, and to introduce Popery and the Pretender } But let ’em look to it, we are not to be Regulated out of our senses at that rate. You and I can remember the time' when there was not the tenth part of the Probability there is now, when a certain Prince was banifli’d his Kingdom upon less Provocations.
these gentlemen’s Arguments put me in mind of what I have often heard your Worship intimate formerly, that if ever the Designs of the Late Mit nistry Mifcarryed, it would be purely owing to themselves. They had once the foie Power in their own
Hands, bwt wanted Courage and Resolution to make
xm
%
\
the  . 21
the most of their Advantages, and now they Suffer for it, and who can help ’em.
If your Advice had been follov/d, our General had still kept his commisfion, and our Noble Friends their Posts; and you and I, and all that wish well to the GOOD OLD CAUSE, might have had some prospects of Requital for our Expense and Trouble : but that time’s past, and God knows whether ever the like opportunity may offer again, indeed I don’t expect to See it in my time.
In this kind of wrangling difcourse we sj^ent the time till the Coachman stop’d at a little House upon the Road, to light his Pipe, and take a Dram. The Old Gentleman who knew the Master call’d for 3 Bottle of his March Beer to drink the company’s Healths, and their good Journey •, adding, that it was usual for Persons that travel in a Stagecoach to fall into Disputes, and Sometimes to Squabble, and that if he had said anything that had given offence, be was Sorry soft, and asked Pardon.
The Drink was exceeding Strong, and very Palatable j I think the best of the fort I had tasted Since I came to the ijland, and my Companion the Boglander observing the Old Gentleman and his Chaplain suck it down with a great deal of Satisfaction, resolves they should have their Bellies full, and accordingly orders the Fellow to bring every Man his Bottle. Come, says he. Gentlemen, Since a General Peace is concluded among us, I think we can do no less than
take a Glass or Two to its happy Continuance. If
you’ll give me leave, i’ll begin a Health that I believe will be acceptable to everybody. Herds pro fperky to the  . A good Health indeed, says the Doctor, andwe are much obliged to you for it; and I II ajfure yon. Sir, notwithjlanding these little Bicker' ' there's no body drinks it with more pleasure than
Sfik? m.d. iny saf The Six Bottles were off in
an
/
2 2
\
an Instant, and the Fellow who took the Hint, had cunningly replac’d ’em with Six more 5 which with a great deal of difficulty I took my share of: but my Lord, I must own to you, though I was willing to carry on the Humour, I never did a thing with greater uneasieness.
When we had finish’d the last Sis Bottles, the Senator would have call’d again ^ but the Coachman prevented his Motion, by telling us if we stay’d longer j we should be late at our Inn, and the Roads were dangerous: upon which we pay’d, and the Coach drove away. We had not gone above half a Mile, but the sudden Effects of this potent Liquor began to appear in the whole Company 5 but more particularly in the Old Gentleman, and the Doctor, whose, an tick Behaviour and Ridiculous Stories and Jests, upon one another, surnish’d us with Diversion for the rest of the Afternoon.
When we came to our Inn, the Landlord, who presently observ’d that the Senator and his Chaplain had been taking a glass, calls my Companion aside, and told him ^ if you are for being, merry tonight, you never had a better Opportunity. If you can manage the matter right. Penury and cliimsey (as he calls the Senator and his Chaplain) have been dabling already, and if you can persuade 'em to take a Bottle or Two of my Strong Ale, which 1 know they both heartily love, that will pin the Bajket, and then you'll have sport enough. And truly. Landlord, Says he, / wont be long before I try the Experiment, Ifee they are gone into the Kitchen, to the Fire, III follow 'em do you be within call and I'll warrant you we'll manage the matter.
This was no sooner concluded but up he makes to the Old Gentleman; and calling for the Landlord, told him that they had met with a Glass of the best Liquor at a little house upon the Road, that he had tasted in all his Travels j snd as. the favour was owing
th  . 23
ing purely to this Worthy Senator., the Gentlemen have Sent him to return him their hearty Thanks, and to desire his Company. The dobor who often took upon him to answer for his Patron, began at first to raise some Scruples; but his Worship who was still under the Dominion of the .March Beer, made no Exr ceptions, but bid him tell the Gentlemen that they did him a great deal of Honour, and that he would
attend them immediately.
In a few Minutes the Senator and his Chaplain
came in to us ^ and after we had order’d Something for Supper, we call’d for the Landlord to know what he had got in the house to drink ^ whotofd us he had very good Wine of all Sorts, but that which he could chiefly recommend to us was Some Ale of his own Brewing, that was now in the Perfection. His wor (i)ip, says he, has often been pleajed to Jiop at my House, and I hope will do me the jujiice to allow, that there is not an Inn upon the Road that can compare with me for Malt Liquors.
Landlord, says he, Good Wine wants no Bush, if your Ale be good it will recommend it jelf, go therefore and bring us a couple of Soldiers Bottles, which the Company fall give me leave to present 'em with, for a Specimen : be Jure to go upright, as we say in the West, and remember your Reputation's at Jlake.
The Ale was brought in, and indeed it was exceeding fine, and very pleasant, and much stronger than most of our common Wines ^ and I must be ingenious with your lordjinp, if I had not often shifted my Glass, and manag’d with a great deal of Circumspection, I found it would soon grow too potent for me.
Before the Supper could be got ready, as near as I remember, we had difpatch’d about ten Bottles j of which I am confident, as matters were order’d, the Squire and the dobor had at least a double share, and
bei

24
began to be both very Troublelbme and Ridiculous ^ but my Lord, I should be more So than either to trouble you with the Particulars: I will theresore omit the recital of their Antic Tricks, Bawdy Jests, and Obscene difcourse’ besore Supper, and only carry you to the end of the Farce.
aster Supper our Landlord had prepar’d a couple of strolling Fiddlers, which he order’d to strike up at the Door, and wish his Worship a happy Journey, and a sase Return, The Senator no Sooner bear’d ’em, but he order’d them to be call’d in, and directed them to play Oliver's March, the Duke of Monmouth's Gigg, and Some of the Times that had been lately compos’d for the calves bead Solemnity. Our Boglander to humour the matter Sung Several Catches in his own Language, and danc’d one of his Country daiices, which he perform’d with a great deal of Dexterity. Nay, faith Says the Squire,. if you are ' for that sport, 7tiy Parson and'i will few you a few of our Country Steps and out he lugs the dobor, and tho’ he could hardly stand, nothing would Serve but he must take a turn with him: Come Boys, Says he, play Bobbing Jone, attd pray Parson mind your Steps. Here I confess a Man must have been more than a Stoic, to have kept his Temper ^ in the whole course of my List I never Saw anything So exactly Foolish, and I defy all the Poets and Painters in Italy to describe Such a Scene. While they were Hopping, Jumping, and Tumbling about in the most preposterous manner, it unluckily happen’d that Clumbfey\ as the Landlord call’d him, chanc’d to tread upon his patron’s Toes. Confound your Heaviness, Says he, you have murdered me', if the whole Church bad fallen, Ifiouldnot have felt it half so much.
Though this was a perfect Accident, it was with Some difficulty that we got the Old Gentleman into Temper again 5 he gave the dobor abundance of
hard
►
♦
the  . 25
A
hard Words, and the dobor as often return’d his Compliments •, however, by the intercesiioii of the Landlord, and the rest of the Company, they were made Friends, and the Squire took off a Bumper to spilpui ing Health, as a mark of his Reconciliation.
By this time we thought it proper to disiniss the Fiddlers, and by our landlord’s Advice, to call for the Reckoning. It seems, he had seen the Squire in his Altitudes formerly, and knew So much of his Temper, that if the house was not discharged before he had Slept upon’t, and was grown cool, he would suspect he had been impos’d upon, and it would be very difficult to prevail with him to pay his Club.
The Bill came to six and twenty Shillings, which the Senator taking into his Hand, threw back again to the Landlord with Contempt. Gentlemen, Says he, As below the Dignity of a Stultitian Senator, when he has a mind to enjoy himself, to suffer anybody to pay with him. This Motion was strongly opposed by every one but the dobor, who either took it for a bounce of his Patrons, or elfe Jiad a mind to Said his own Pocket, and So encourag’d it. To make short of the Story, the Squire cut a hole in the tvafi band of his Breeches, and pull’d out a couple of Pieces and pay’d all ^ upon which I left ’em, and retir’d to my Chamber, whither the Barrijier follow’d me as soon as he could conveniently get away; my Companion the Major, and the Landlord stay’d it out, and as they inform’d u in the Morninig, had a world of diverting Scenes, between the Senator and the dobor, till they grew both So thoroughly dmnk, that the Coachman and Oajllers were forc’d to be call’d in to carry them up to their Lodging.
Pardon me, my Lord, for trespasiing fb long upori your Leiliire, my next will bring you the Detail of my Conference with the Barrijier, With an Account of
\
26
our arrival at the Metropolis which shall be faithfully transinitted to you by the first Poll, by
Jour Lordship's mofi
Dated from the Metropolis of Obedient Servant — —
the ijland of Fools, the 12 th ofoilob. 1712.
'I - • * L ■■■- : >., : ■ ■
Letter III
•%
My Lord,
I Trouble you in my last with a tedious Account of our third day’s Journey and the merry Adventures we had with the Senator and his Chaplain., which, tho’ I must acknowledge they were utterly too trivial for youi lordship’s Ear, and highly Impertinent 5 yet by the use I shall be oblig’d to make of ’em in the Description of the Policy, Government, and present State of the Stultitians, I hope you will be pleased to admit of ’em among the rest of theirs and my Fooleries.
■ The Barrifier, as I before intimated, having Secretly withdrawn himself from the Drunken Society, retir’d directly into my Appartmeiit, and propos’d the taking a quiet Bottle of Wine before we went to our Beds i a Propossl, which for several Reasons I readily comply’d with, but particularly that I might have the opportunitj^ of a Separate Hour with him, who from our first Interview 1 had obferv’d to be a persbn of great Modesty and Affability, and of excellent Endowments both Natural and acquir’d.
I found he spoke most of the European Languages extremely well, especially that of the Gauls, in which we convers’d. Sir, says he, you have been an Eye wit
o#fs of the extravagant Follies of two of our Countrymen
the  . 27
trymen, and without 4 great deal of Candour and Gooihumour must naturally conclude, that you fallsh into a very ridiculous Corner of the World. I will not indeed osfer anything in Apology for shss unpolish’d Senator and his Chaplain, or endeavour to excuse our selves in the general from a World ct hairbrain’d inconsiderate Actions we have been no' torioufly guilty of, which 1 am sensible we must be justly condemn’d and censufd for in all Foreign Countries. But, Sir, if I thought I should not be troublesome, I would venture to lay before you a few of my own Observations, which I look upon to be most material, and leave it to yourself to make the proper Inferences.
As to this Senator and his Chaplain I must own, a Stranger would be apt to Sorm very odd Ideas of us, is he was to look no further than their Behaviour upon the Road; but as this would be a very unequal way of judging, I hope you won’t make them your Standard to meashre our whole Country by. ’tis true, the Knaves and Fools are by far the greater Number -, but still we have both in the senate house and in the Friejlhood, persons of great Learning and Probity; and I hope our general Character is not yet Sunk So low, but there are those in the World will do us the Justice still to believe it.
Here I thought proper to reply. That tho’ the Character of the Stultitians was much leffen’d of late, and their unsteady Behaviour to their Princes, their frequent Rebellions and Revolutions, their fabions and Parties, their unfaithful Proceedings in the management of the State, and their ungenerous Behaviour one to am there, had spread themselves very far, and were become generally prejudicial to ’em •, yet I never heard but that there were ainorig ’em more persons of profound Learning and great Abilities than were to be found in all the World beside. Sir, I hope you’ll pre
2 don
i
2o
don this Freedom in a Stranger. The intent of my Voyage is not to fraight myself home with useless Speculations, but to improve my Knowledge if you’ll therefore be pleas’d to favour ine with Some short directions how I may manage myself with the inost advantage when I come to your great Town, which is everywhere efteem’d as the Emporium of the World, you will add very niuch to the Honour you now do me, and will oblige me in the mo Si effectual manner, first to deserve and theii to improve our fu shre Conversation. Without the leajl heftation be made dnjwer. That a Gentleman of my Experience and Qualifications could want no Instructions to enable iiim to make my paslage with Safety and Advantage into any Country; especially such Instructions as his were, that he was sensible were exceedingly imperfect and ill chosen: But, Sir, that you may see how willing I am to comply with your Request, I will for once expose iiiy Self to your Censhre, and rather run the hazard of being thought Impertinent than disb blige you.' "
In all probability your first curiosity will lead you to the Court, under the mistaken notion, that you may possibly meet' with several things there worthy the observation of a Stranger. The Palace it self has little to recommend it beside the Antiquity of the Place, and is ‘much inferior to Several of our noble inens Seats, especially to those that have been lately erected upon the Crown Lands, whole Foundations began in Rapine, Bribery and Extortion, and whose Walls continued and were cemented by the Blood and Spoiles of a poor deluded Ignorant People. The Situath on is tolerable, though infinitely inferior to the ancient Seat of our Princes, that now lies bury’d in its bwn Ruins, and is a constant reflection upon the Wisdom and Loyalty of the Stultitian Senate, and aii undeniable Argument, that the high regard that some
inl ' =, !'■;,? ■ ' peoplo'
i 7 ' ^
I
 . 29
People pretend for the preservation of the Memory of the Royal Family, is mere Banter and Grimace. When you come to Town, if you turn your Eyes that way, Fm consident you’ll be fadljr affected, and be apt to conclude with me That the Stultitians have been extremely negligent, that amidst the Immense Summs they have yearly given under the Notion of carrying on a ridiculous War, or rather, that have been artfully extorted from them upon that pretence, they have not appropriated Some sinall part towards rebuilding this famous Structure.
The Stultitian Court is such a confus’d Medley, and Siich a strange mixture of persons of all Sorts and Qualifications jumbl’d together, that ’tis impossible for the greatest masters of reasbn and Experience to form any right Judgement, or give any tolerable account of ’em. In one place Sits an old Statefinan, one that wants neither Learning nor good Sense,, and very few either Natural or acquir’d Endowments that are requisite to qualify him for his high Post, or recommend him to the Closet of the greatest Prince in the World; but then as a foile to all his Perfections, he is so insufferably proud, peevisti and ill natur’d, and what’s worst of all, So intolerably Covetous, that he stands as ’twere in a Parenthejis between his Equals and his Inferiours, and is almost every bodies aver fion^ unless it be a few Mercenaries that he maintains on purpose to indulge his Spleen. In the next place to him Sits one that is the direct reverie of him, and so exactly opposite to him in all respects, that if you did not lee they were made after the Same form, you’d hardly believe ’em of the same Species; no body comes to him without a Smile, or leaves him without apromifej and if his Performances are but equal to the Sudden Esteem he has acquir’d both from the Prince and People, the next Age will look upon him
as a Prodigy 5 but. Sir, as he is wrapped up in mysie
II i 5;, ries
s
4
, A New Voyage tq
ries, I will not attempt to give you any part of his charaber: Time the Mother of Truth is big with his History, and must e’er long be deliver’d ^ in which Interval you’ll be certain to meet with many different Accounts both of his Virtues and Vices as well as the Wisdom, Folly and Success of his great Undertakings. In another place Sits a junbo of new politicii ans i what Qualifications they may have the Public is not yet acquainted with: Honejiy is their beji Policy, and tho’ Virtues and Vices have been appropriated to most of the great Men in the World when Interest held the Scale, yet Prudence and Justice still turn’d the Balance. The aphorisni is jlpry old, I confess, but the Application is always new, and will continue so, till the Covetousness and Ambition of Courtiers and Statesmen Shall entirely cease, which Pm a fraid I shall never live to See, especially in this degenerate isle.
Sir, I would not stop you too long at a Place, where ' you that are a Stranger can make So few Improvements; for unless you knew the Persons, the manner and causes of their Promotion, and their respective Characters and Qualifications, ’tis impossible you should be able to judge of’em. It can iignifie little to you to tell ydu, that the Lord with the long Nose and the Sorrowful Countenance is a confounded Hypocrite, and playing Tricks with both Parties to fill his own Pockets. That the fpmce dapper Spark that’s daub’d from Head to Foot with Lace and imbroyde ry, is but a Sort of a Chemical Operator, a very lack in Politics, and like Efop's Daw, struts about in borrow’d Plumes. I might show you at a distance Several of our prince’s Menials and Officers of the Guards that are Persons of Scandalous and Profligate Lives, and of Rebellious and Antimonarchial Principles, and tyre you with th different Characters and di striptions qf thp Fools and Kmv, es that at this time in
■ ■' ‘ - ■
t d.
J
♦
the  . 51
iqh the Royal Palace I but, Sir, Since you are, to be in i Town yourself in a Day or two, and will have a Sull opportunity to make your own Observations, we’ll leave it till then.
I know you are too good a Judge of the coriftitu tion and Nature of all Courts, to imagine, that the wisefi: Prince that ever govern’d^ can So effectually model his Family, but that abundance of Knaves and Fools, and other vfelefs Terfons, will crowd in upon him, and like divided parcels of dying Vipers, Spraul together towards their Head. Some Princes, by the prudent disfribution of their Rewards and pimijiments^ and by their Singular regard to Men of Merit and Probity, have indeed prevented a great many Mifcbiefi and Inconveniendes that have happen’d upon this account 5 whilst others have been undone, and their whole Family expos’d and banish’d, chiefly by the salse and perfidious Advice of their treacherous conn fellors, and the ungrateful and faithless Behaviour of their Creatures and Servants, a fatal Instance of which I could lay before you in a late Prince of this island 5 but. Sir, it grows late, and I wofft detain you now with the melancholy Recital. The poor Stultitians owe all the Chalamities they have already actually felt, and the dreadful prospects of future miseries which they have still cause to apprehend, to the good Nature, and Credulity of that mistaken Prince. I heartily wisli his Misfortunes may be a standing caution to his Posterity, not to depend too much, and place their foie Security upon the deceitful Counsels of any Select: Number or Party of Mercenary Courtiers or Upjlart Polititians.
We are now blessed with one of the best Princes that ever adorn’d the Stultitian Throne: A Prince whole Reign has been one continued Series of great and won dertul Events, and has done everything that was possible to promote the Happiness and Glory of the
People.
\ ■
I
52,
People. And would you imagine, that after all this, this very Prince Should be ill us’d, vilely treated and ' affronted j and that there should be a Party among us lb desperately wicked, and So entirely lojt to all sense of Honour and Gratitude, that there is hardly a Week pasfes but Some Plot or Conjpiracy, or Some deviufi) Contrivance is let on foot to imbroil the Nation and Subvert the consfitution When you come to our Metropolis, you’ll be confounded and surpriz’d at these monstrous Proceedings; but. Sir, the Facts are notorious, and as plain as Demonstration can make ’em. I appeal to your sels therefore, are we not in reality an ijland of Fools and Madmen to Suffer all this with Impunity; and what Account will our Governors give of their Conduct, if by their Timidity or artificial Delays, we should, after the Deluge of Blood that has been Spilled, and the incredible Sums that have been extorted from the Nation, and extravagantly squander’d away in the shpport of a few Ravenous, Dejigning, Beggarly Accomplices: whom Experience has too late inform d us, had no other Friendship or Regard for us, than to Serve their own purposes, and to fatten and indulge themselves upon our Spoiles j if after all this these Vipers should be fiiffer’d to reunite and gather fresh Strength and Vigour, what can the consequence be but unavoidable Ruin and Destruction?
Oh foolish Stultitians! what Magic, what powerful Philtrum is it that has So Satally benumb’d and Infatuated you Believe me. Sir, I mention these things with the deepest regret. Our whole Island is corrupted and overrun with Vice and Folly. Our Laws, that once were, and now should be, the Standard of Justice and reason, are basely subverted, and in most cases made a persect Subterfuge to Cheats and Villains. Our Priests have untaught their own Doctrines and for Swore their Principles: They have sacrific’d
the
fcrifiz’d their Faith and their Consciences to theii* in tereft, and made a Merchandise of their Religion, Our Merchants, once the wealthiest: in the World, are most of’em become Fugitives and Bankrupts. Our Manufactures, in many Places are quite lost, and in most Sunk So low, that the poor Artificer cannot Subsist upon ’em; (Dur Foreign Commerce is almost Utterly destroy’d, and can never be restor’d without the concurrence of a world of unforeseen accidentsi The great Branches of our Trade, that Sora succesfi on of Ages, have Supported the Grandure of our Natss bn, and render’d us valuable both at home and abroad is dwindl’d into Monopoly and Stock jobbing 5 and vim Exchange, once the greatest Mart in the Worlds frequented only by a fevr Indigent Scoundrels, or shch iifeless idle People that come thither to stock themselves with the Occurrences of the Town, and to barter and prate about Parties and Politics. Our Stage, that was intended chiefly for the Diversion and Reception of burr Ladies and Gentlemen of Quality, is become the common Receptacle of Sharpers, Bullies, Whores and Bawds \ the original .Design is quite lost, and from being a School of Moral Virtues and Good Manners, and ^ Place for the Representation of Noble and Generous A elions, is entirely chang’d into Farce and Ridicule, and made the very Sink of Ribaldry and Obscene Talk and an Inlet to all manner of Prophanenejs and Immorality By this time the Clock had struck Twelve, - and one of the Waiters came up to us, and told us, That the Coach would be going by Four in the Morning 5 and fb after I had, in the best manner I could, signify’d to him the Sense I had of his Friendship, and the Satiss faction I took in his Conversation we went to Bed where we had not been above three Hours but we ' were call’d up in order to get ourselves in a readiness against the time that our Governor, the Goacte ihn, should think fit to call for us:
f Fdf
J
i
V
A Hew Voyage so'
For the greatest part of the Morning, Nothing • happeiid worth your lordfiipi mfice. About Nine, whilst we were in the middle of a famous Heath j which as I afterwards understood, is commonly infested with a sort of Gentlemen, like Robbers, which the ijlanders distinguish by the name of Highwaymen j the Coachman told us he had discover’d upon the Side of the Hill, three persons on horfe back, which he thought might be Thieves, and that they were cross fing the Roads to meet the Coach •, this put all the Company into great confusion, still the Major told
us, if we would follow his Advice, he'd undertake for our Security. No fighting I beseech you, good Major, lays the Senator, I had much rather part with my ney than my Life; if these Fellows (heuld over power us, they'll firip us, and cut our Throats, I have a world of Sins unrepented of. Oh parson! this is a Judgement upon us for our laf Night's Extravagance.
Pox of your Sins, and your Judgments, Says the Major, this is no Time nor Place to think of either j if you'll come out of the Coach and take your fate among us, you may be Safe. This Gentleman, meaning the Boglander, has a fusee, and 1 have a Brace of Pistols, and am very confidentwhen these Sparks see we have put our selves into a Pofiure of Defejtce, they wont venture upon us. Upon this we all step’d out of the Coach, and the Major gave me one of his Pifols, and desir’d me not to fire still I was Secure not to miss my Mark As he judg’d it, fb it happen’d; for the Fellows coming up with the Coach, and finding no body in it, turn’d their horses, and came back directly to us 5 but perceiving we had Arms, and were reiolv’d ta stand upon our Guard, they gave us two or three hearty curses, and So left us.
I will trouble your Lordship no Sartlier with any of the little Occurrences upon the Roadbeing constious to “
myself, that I have already trespass’d too far upon
you
the  . 55
you in that particular. About three in the Aftefijioon, we came to this famous City, from whence I hope in a Short time to be able to communicate to your Lord ship, Some Affairs of greater Importance, and more to your Satisfaction, and miss no opportunity to sig nisie, that I am, with the most profound respect,
My Lord, Tour mojl
Dated from the of Obedient Servant;,
the Ifle of Pools, Febr,, the ipch, 1712.
I
%
L E T T E R IV
My Lord,
\
After we had quitted the Coach and drank 3
Bottle of Canary, which the Old Gentleman presented to the Major as an acknowledment of the Signal Service he had done him in protecting him from the Robbers ♦, the Barrijier perceiving that I was under Some uneasiness for want of a Lodging, told me that he had two Beds in his Chambers, which I Should take my choice of, and Should be welcome to stay shere till I hast an opportunity to make a better Provision.
This unexpected Friendihip from a' Stranger confirm’d me in the esteem I already had for him, and added very much to the impr.esiions his generous Behaviour upon the Road had made upon me, I would have made Some Apologies, but he Soon prevented me, by telling me i That he look’d upon good Manners and Civilities to Strangers to be a common Puty, which we owe one to another, and that if I would be pleas’d to accept of hi Offer, the oblig^^ tion would lie on his Side.
F 2 wliilsl
1 *•; ' •
\ '
V

Whilst we made this short stay at the Inn, we were infested with Swarms of ragged People, that crowded impudently into our Room to sell us Pamphlets and nemmapers. I would have bought Several of ’em j but the Master of the House told me they were nothing but Shams and Forgeries, published by some Knavish Beggarly, Printers, purely to geta Penny. As this was a thing perfectly new to me, and what I had never heard or seen in any other Country, T could not forbear asking upon what Account, and by what Authority these Scandalous People were permitted. Your lord ship knows that at Venice,, and in all other parts of the World where they have any sort of Economy, the shinting Press js always Sacred to the State; and that Siich a Scandalous Practice as this would be iooksh upon as a very high Reflection upon the Wiss dom of the Government, and the Authors punish’d with the utmost Severity. Sir, Rieplys the Barrister, ’tis not jor nothing we have the charaber of an  : when you come to know us thoroughly, you II be convinced, we have the jiijleji Title to it. This, though it has put the Nation into the greatest confusion and Dili faction, and fill’d th people’s Heads full of whimsies and chimera’s, is but a petty inconsiderable Folly, in respect of some ypu’u meet with. Upon what Account, and by what Authority these Scandalous People are permitted, Icanst very well inforip you : I know indeed for what purposes the Practice was at first introduc’d, and \yhat mischieyous Effects it has had J but howit comes to be continued now, | protest i can give no' reason. We have been told indeed that Some of our keenest ffiate Politicians are terribly troubled with the furor Scxibendi, and promote the Latitude of the Ptefs, in order to conceal themselves. Others, they Say, are no less fond of being thought Authors, aqd stncy it to be an high Article in their Reputation to be a Father to though of Somp
. pool
♦
\
L
the  . 5f
poor indigent Scribbler, which they employ to write for ’em : and ’tis odds too, when he has huzza’d them almost: to blasphemy, and stock’d the Kingdom with lying Fanygericks, in their Commendation y praised them for Virtues they never had, and for great Actions, they never thought ost but that, as Soon as they grow into Power, and the stlly Coxcomb has rais’d their Reputation, and done their businefs, they intended him for, but they find Some pretence or other to turn him out of their Favour, and perhaps load him with Reproaches into the Bargain, and So his Credit lost, and he grows Contemptibie, and must be forc’d to Scribble Madrigals and Elegies for Bread, or throw himself upon the mercy of Some Knavish Mercenary bookseller, that makes him his Slave and his Property, and if possible, uses him worst than he was before. Many instances of this I could produce, and' fbme of stm of Persons of as good Learning and Parts as ever the ijland Bred, that have been utterly lost, and dy’d starving in a Garret upon this Account.
The Senator would have offer’d us Some of his Arguments in vindication of the liberty of the Press particularly that the Revolution, and many other considerable Events since, were in a great measure owing to it: but my Companion, the Boglander, interrupted him, by telling him j This was no proper time to enter into long Disputes, but that if the Company would meet in a day or two, and dine together, they
: would then have an opportunity to talk over this matter at length. This Prppofal was approved, and readily agree’d to by the whole Company, and the stay and place appointed ^ and st we took our leaves, nd my Friend the Barrijier, for as yet I can call him by no other Name, ordered a Hackney Coach to be past’d, and directed the Fellow to dnve us directly tp hi cliaipberso
• h..: > •.
4
t

We had hardly drove a hundred Paces, but I ob ferv’d prodigious numbers of the miserable Creatures I before mention’d to you, running about with great bundles of Papers under their Arms ^ some crying a New Mail from Frogland, with the King of the Gaul's New Propofah; others Peace and Popery, or the Pretender's New Declaration 5 others, that we are all undone at lajl by the een and Parliament, or a full and true Discovery of a horrid and bloody Plot: and abundance of other Papers, with these Sort of Titles ^ which as I was asterwards told, were most of them Printed and dispers’d, at the Expense of the phana ficks, to raise jealousies and Apprehensions among jthe Tradefinen, and ordinary Sort of Pebple.
I will not now detain your lordjinp with the Mar nificence of the Houles, the vast numbers of the istople we met, the Sumptuoufnefs of the Shops, and the largeness and regularity of the Streets through which we pass’d, because I intend to trouble you
with a general Description of the Tpwn, as soon a I have furnishst my self with the proper Materials, in a Short time we came near to the place where we were to be Set down, where we were stop’d Sora quarter of an Hour, by a mighty concourse of Coaches that frequently crowd the Streets, in that part of the City, and hinder all paslage^ during which, we were encountered with another Accident, which I take to be not only a Reflection upon the Stultitian Policy, but likewise one of she most inhuman proceedings I ever heard of
In a little auey opposite to us, we saw a Tumult of People, and several among stm with Clubs anfl drawn Swords, Sweqring and blaspheming in the most dreadful manner. The Barrijier call’d to a persbn that stood near ns, to know the caust 5 who told us, they were Bayliffs and conjiables, that had seiz’d a poor Gentleman with an Escape Warrant, and for endea' ■ ' ' • ‘ vouring
t
, 9
the Island of Fools 39
vouring to get away from them, had Cut and Beat him so intolerably, that it was apprehended they had murder’d him. My Friend Shook his Head, adding 5 tjjat this is another of our Follies, and a mojl notorious one too; and indeed. Says he, I don't believe the whole World can produce one Paralel to it: the time and circumstance of the place would not permit him to tell me the nature of the Cafe any farther, than that this unhappy person was in a worse Condition than stwas polfible for him to Represent being by a cruel Law that was lately made, purely to gratify the Revenge of one of the Judges, that is Since Dead, to be carry’d directly to a most loathsome and miserable Prison, and there to continue during lise.
By that time these mercyless Russians had drag’d the' poor Man to the end of the Alley, the paslage was! open, and the Coach drove into a Spacious Court, Situated upon the Banks of the linest River I ever beheld. When we came into the Chambers, I think I never Saw things more Uniform and Convenient, nor a Prospect So exceeding Beautiful and Delightful. We had hardly taken the Luggage out of the Coach, but Several Gentlemen of the house came to‘ visit my Friend, and bid him welcome to Town. A" " the rest, one, that I found he had a particular intimacy with, took him aside, I suppose, to inquire who I was i what he said to him I don’t know,. but as soon as he left him he came up to me, and told me his Chambers were Contiguous., and that he was
confident Mr. -- -- -- -- which was the first time I had
heard his Name, would not take it amiss, if I would do him the Favour to step in now and then and drink aldifh of Tea with him. As he was going away, my Friend call’d to him, and told him if he was not pre engag’d, he would be glad to eat a Chop of Mutton wfth him, at the Popes head Tavern, in the Evening.
V '
40 A New Voydge id
We were no Sooner shav’d and dressed, but he was with us, and with all the frankness and good-humour Imaginable, told us 5 he had put off all business for the Nightj and that we might difpose of him as we thought Sit. It was now about Seven, which according to the Custom of the Stultitians, was at least two hours too Soon to Sup 5 and what must be done, to fill up that Interval, was the next (ctiiestion. Several expedients were proposed: at lasti it was concluded to go to the gr&cian coffee house, and read th News, and divert ourselves amono; the Politicians.
When we came there, we found the House crowded with variety of People, and Such a confused Noise and Jar among ’em, that a Man could hardly hear himself Speak. Some were talking for and against Religion. Some were stating Cafes of Conscience j others propostng Law Questions, and attempting to reconcile Contradictions. Some were Bartering and stock jobbing. Some were Wrangling, Scolding and calling Names, and others Lying, Cajoling and Flattering; so that in my whole Life I never saw such a Collection of Perlbns fb intricately jumbl’d and mix’d together.
After we had stood a little while by the Fire, my Friend twitch’d me by the Sleeve ^ Come, says hq, Ibelieve you have had your Jill of tins sort oj Society follow me and well go try if we can mend our selves in the other Room., there perhaps we may find a place to sit down, and some Company that are a little more entertaining. The Room I confess was much better, and the quieter of the two i and the Company well dressed, and look’d Ipmething more like Gentlemen •, but for the Conversation, I think there was no great odds in it. Some of these were for the High, some for the Low church, and some for neither ^ some were for Peace, and some twere for ikar, and propos’d several ridiculous Schemes for promoting the one, and carrying on the other.
Says
♦
the island of t^oolsl
Say a blustering noisie Spark, they cdsd ihy Lord 5 if that canting Blockhead, the Doctor, had been dead and damned, before he had preached his cursed Sermon, the bujinefs had been all over, and we had had none of these parrels and Clamours about Peace and War, nor been under the Apprehenfons of the loss of our Liberties and Properties, and having the Settlement altered, and a Pretender impodd upon us. Says another, that us’d to keep his lordship’s back hand upon these Occash ons My Lord, you are perfebly in the Right:, if the Old Ministry had not been Supplanted, and all their fine
projebs circumvented and defeated by a few Upshart Politicians, we had had none of this Noije and combnjlioh about Hereditary Right. We had not had the Old .Mujly worn out dobrines of Paffive obedience, and non resisfance, new Camped, and bawled about agaim The Names of Whig and Tory had been almojl lojl, and quite forgot, and all our Scandalous dijlinbions had beeii buried in perpetual Oblivion : but my Lord, that time's pajl, and we have fip'd an opportunity of making our selves the greatejl and the happiejl People in theuniverfe. Here a worthy Old Gentleman they call’d Sergeant Trudge, a Pershn of Loyal Principles and good Learning, but of an ill Elocution, rose from his Chair, and vrith some Heat told ’em 5 That their Quarrels, claraoursj and apprehensions, were all groundless, and only trump’d up by a reslless discontented fabion, to a muse and fright the Nation. Indeed, says he, my Lord, I verily believe, if the fine Projects of your Party had not been Defeated, and they had had the adminisfrarion of the Public Affairs a year or two longer all that you nd your Counsellors are pleas’d to Say, might have come to pass 5 with this farther Addition, that if they had went on but a very Short time, we had been cur’d of all our apprehensions, and had had neither Religion, Fropertj, Law, Government, Order or dijhnbion, to have been concern’d
G' iot,
42
or, but been involv’d in a State of Anarchy and Confusion, from whence your Old Mimjiry could hardly have deliver’d us. Depend upon it, Sir, a perpetual Di bator, which you struggl’d Sb hard for, and had effected too, if you had not been circumvented by a fev/ Upjlart Folitidans, as you are pleased to style ’em, bad not prevented it: At least the War had been never the nearer an End. Nor, by all the prospects and Rules of reason, that I am Master of, had the Greatness and Happiness of the People been in any better forwardness, than they are at this present.
. Let him alone Dick, says the Lord, the Old Gentleman is troubl’d with a Vertigo., he has been dreaming of the Pretender last Night, and that has turffd his Head. No, Jays the Sergeant, ’tis your lordship, and the rest of your Party that dream of the Pretender, and make use of him upon all Occasions, to cover your other Designs. You carry him about with you, as the Turks do Mahomet's Bones for a Charm I don’t hear of any, but those that make it their business to disturb the Government, and create Tumults and Divijiom, that trouble their Heads either with the Pretender, or the alteration of the Settlement. You are the People that create the jealoitjies, and raise the Outcries your Selves 5 and if ever the Settlement be alter’d, and the Pretender be brought in, stis you must do it: for I don’t believe anybody else will attempt it, or intends it
My Lord, I must be plain with you, there have been within these few Years so many wicked openly
avow’d, and in the most solemn and deliberate manner Asterted and maintain’d, that the Stultitians are become the Jest and Ridicule of all the European jvorld 5 and pray, my Lord, give your self a little time to think, who has been the occasion of this. I appeal to your lordship, are they the jkhigs or the Tories > Wlio vere they that openly, at the Trial of
that
sne luaiiu ui roois. 43
that canting Blockhead the dobor, as you call him. arraign’d and condemn’d the Title of the present Prince, and had abstracted it from all manner of Hereditary Right? Who were they that affirm’d that the Regal Dignity was solely grounded upon a Revolu. tion Foundation, and that there was no Title but vvhat was deriv’d directly from thence? Have not new Modiels of Government been propos’d, and Srequent attempts made to begin our Constitution, De novo fand are there not a Set of Hirelings, and Projligate Scribblers, that dispute the prince’s Prerogative of making Peace and jvar, a Prerogative as old as Monarchy it self, and has never been Controverted, but in times of Revolution anfl Rebellion j and do not the same vile Wretches contiiiue even to this very Day, to tell the People in their Scandalous Papers and Pamphlets, that no Prince has any Sarther Title to his Crown than what he holds from their Gift and
I mm..
Condescension; I beg of your lordship, or your Chaplain, at your Elbow, to tell me, who they are that publicly promote and abet these Principles, and have lately made all this Struggle and Contest to obstruct the most honourable and advantageous Peace that e ver was offer’d to the Stultitians a Peace, that in all Probabilty will restore our ijland to its former Wealth and Grandure, mshe our Glory and Happiness almost as large as we can wish, and as lasting as the World
The two Gentlemen who knew the Company, and the natural consequences of such a severe Reprimand, thought best to be gone before the Storm broke out 5 and accordingly gave me the Sign, and Sb we left stm to wrangle it out by themselves, and went to Supper.
Whilst Supper was getting ready, my Friend entertain’d me with Several diverting pasiages relating to the Policy and Government of the Stultitians >; and
Q 2 withal
I
\
^4 A New Voyage so
wiihali asfd me how I lik’d their coffee hoiije Gonver, Sation.> VU warrant yon. Says he, therds rare work a mong 'em by this time', before now his Lordship foams at
the Mouth, cmd has called the Old Gentleman a hundred Jacobites and popish rascals ^ and Dick and he, and. the two or tb^'ce other Toting Rakes they have debauched and draw7i iftto their Party, have ialpd as much Treajon and Blasphemy as would poison and unjoe ct whole Nation.
I could not very well tell what answer to make him, being unwilling to be too Sorward in my Observations 5 which I take to be a very great (defect: in the Conduct of Some Strangers, who take upon ’em at first Sight to pensure persons and Things •, and So I only told him. That I look’d upon this to be the hidden effects of Parties and pasiion, and that I did not question, but the Stultitians were too wise a Nation to Suffer any of their People of what degree or quality Soever, tp tctk treason or blasphemy with Impunity.
Says the other Gentleman, I find your Friend is unwilling to censure our Follies as they delerye, and indeed we ought to think pur Selves oblig’d to him for his Candour. When he comes to be better acquainted with us, he’ll find these extravagancies are not the bare effects of Parties and Pastion, but the product of old Hereditary Grudges, occasion’d by the natural Aversion the two Factions have one for ano sher, and their constant Practice in all places where they sheet: if yoshu give me leave. i’ll trouble
you with an abjlrau of their respective Characters, which though I confess they are hardly worth it, yet they may she of Some use to you in your Pastage through the rest of the Town.
He that they call My Lord, is a turbulent hpt lieaded shmk that affects to be at the Head of the
7 X ' /
% who though they generally look upon him
, .<... ^... *
* Ver?
\
the   45
to be a Perfbn of very little Sense and no Solidity, yet they often make use of him in dangerous Cafes, and put him upon Motions that the more Wary and Considerate of stm don’t think proper to appear in. i)ick, as they call him, has much better Sense, and wants for no Resolution to back it j but then he’s So much a Bigot, and So heated with a mistaken Zeal, that he commonly over runs his Game, and ruins a the causes he’s concern’d in. i The Sergeant's a Gentleman of Solid Judgement and great Integrity, but a little too hasty and pasiionate in Conversation. He in the Black Wigg, that Sat next him, is one of our City Senators, that commonly votes well, but can
give no other reasbn for it than that Sir John -- -- -- -
j/fr. -- -- -- and the Colonel were of the Same Opinion.
The two they calfd dorors, are two of the Ringleaders of the new Sect of Free Thinkers, and have drawn aster them half the young Fellows about the Town. He in the Gown is one of our Latitudinarian Parsons, and a Sort of a Spiritual Stoch Jobber. He that sste next to him, is a young Student that’s lately come from the Univerfty, and has a mighty Inclination to be thought an Atheist but is Sb unfortunate to be Sb perfectly a Blockhead, that no body takes any notice of him. The old Sparks that Sat finoaking and grumbling at the other Table by themselves, are a fet of Usurers and old Rich Attorneys, that came
only to read the News and make Observations V or
perhaps for the Sake of the Coffee and Tea, which has the Reputation of hctiig sh the Town.
This, my Lord, is the Detaile of what I collected the first Night I came to this great Town 5 where every Day I continue I find will produce a world of Ocr currences, which I am sensible would come to your lordship by any other hand with greater Advantages than I can pretend: however, Since you are pleas’d to honour me with their acceptance, I Shall continue to " tranfinif
•.. ^ I » i
^6
tranfinit them in the best manner I can, and thereby Iignifie the Ambition I have of being,
Dated from the Metropolis My Lord, cc.
of the Ifle of Fools,
January 27. 1712,
— ■ ' ' ' P », 1, pi ■■ ■ ^ J.
Letter. V
My Lord,
TH E next Day the two Gentlemen were fb kind
to promise me to bear me company to the Court End of the Town, whither we Set out about Ten in the Morning. We took Water at a Pair of Stairs at the Foot of the Chamber, from whence we order’d the Watermen to carry us to the Old Palace, which is distant about hals a League. In this Short paslage, notwithstanding the Weather was very cold, and few persons of sashion go by Water, we found the River almost cover’d with Boats of different makes and 'sizes, which, as my Companions inform’d me, might be Seen almost every Day in the Year except Sundays: when there’s only a limited number permitted for the eonveniency of transporting pasiengers.
My Lord, upon this transient view stis imposlible I Should give your Lordstiip any tolerable Account of this famous River. The Gentlemen told me, That it stretcheth itself Tfejlward into the very Heart of the Country, and that most of the Provision and o there necesssries for this great and populous City were convey’d to it that way 5 adding withal, that if by any invasion or Inliirrection, or by any othct Accident, the paslage Should be intercepted but for
twenty Pay?, the People must be starv’d j pd Seem’4
very
the island of Pools. 47
Vefy much to condemn the Stultitian Policy, that a better Provision was not made to Secure ’em against the poisibility of a Surprise of that nature.
Whilst they were describing to me the Extent, Length, Depth, and the appendant Advantages j e specially the prodigious Wealth it brought yearly to the Prince, there pass’d by us a cover’d Boat with Six Oars, which the Watermen told us, was the metro politani Boat: and as they suppos’d, was carrying him to the Counsel Chamber.
Here I was Sb unlucky to ask a Question or two, which I Sound neither of the Gentlemen were at Sirst willing to answer', at length Says one of them : Our present Metropolitan is very little known, unless it be to a Select Party, to whom he owes his Advancement, and is so entirely devoted, that he allows very few others to have any fare either of his Favours or Conversation, His Endowments, Learning, and other Spiritual .^alifications will, without doubt, render him remarkable in the next Generations 5 and as for the present, I don't hear he is much concerned about it. As you make your way through the Town you'll be sure to hear more or less of his charaber, and from thence will be able to guess at him better than As proper for us to direb. Sir, says one of the Watermen that overheard us I find my Majlers are afraid or ajbam'd to tell you anything of our great Metropolitan 5 but if they won't be angry, I can tell you in a few words what he is. In Short, he is one of those they call low church men, and thefirjl Metropolitan we ever had of that sort, but oneand he was purely a Revolution One, aitd did hardly believe in God: at leas, he did not believe in him as his Predecejfors did before him. This put us
all into a fit of Laughter, which continu’d till we arriv’d at the Place we intended.
From thence we went to a great Hall, where the Judges Sit to try Causes, and the Lawyers resbrt in
term time to mangle and destroy the Law: The
Place
4^ A New Voyage i0
Place was very Spacious and Magnificent, and thd’ jiot So uniform as Some of our Modern Buildings; yet in all respects extremely well adapted to the uses that are now made of it. Here we met with little worthy observation i except it were great numbers of Colours and Standards that the Stiiltntans had lately taken from the Gauls in Several memorable Battles One of the Gentlemen shew’d me them with a great deal of plealiire ^ but withal told me, That never Trophies were purchased with so much hazard, and at the ex pence of so much Blood and Treajure.
, If I should tell you what hardjiftps the poof Stultitians may have underwent, what imtnejtfe Sums they have provided, and how infifferably they have beeri cheated and impodd* upon; you'd be surprise that this little ijland Jhoiild be JHU able to hold the Balance of Power among the European Princes, and to make so conjiderable a Figure as it docs at this present. 1 here is no Nation but the • Island of Fools would have squander d away a hundred and fifty Millions, and five hundred thousand of the Lives of the braveji oj their Veople upon mere chimera’s and siig gejlionsand yet this we have done, and you see all that, • we have got for it. What our Peace may produce is locked up in the Archives of Futurity, and seems chiefly to depend upon the Success of remote Accidents.
When we had walk’d two or three turns here, we went up a large pair of Stairs, which led us to an antiquated Chamber ^ which is generally crowded with Persons of all Ranks and Degrees during the Sitting of the Senate, more especially with Priests and Proje^; ct, ors. After we had view’d the Throne and the two Houses of Parliament, they conducted me to an Adjacent Abby of great Antiquity 5 and tho’ at first Sight the Workmanship did not seem Sb Sumptuous as some of our Foreign Churches: yet when you came within it, to look Separately upon the Height, Strength and Beauty of the Pillars, the Loftiness of the Roof, and
thg
/
the  .
the ejtactness and Regularity of the whole Vabrkk^ methoughts it carry’d a Natural greatness and ma^ liificence without any Pomp or artisicial Advantages, nnd was in the mshn ohe of the best and truest Pieces of Architecture I had ever Seen. Here the Kings and Queens of the Ijle, aind the Persons of the first Quality are usually interr’d; whose Tombs and .Mominiems are exceedingly fine and beautiful, and Some of them Sb curiously and naturally adorn’d and engrav’d, that I believe they are hardly to be exceed ed in any part of the World.
From hence we went through a private Garden td the Ruins of the Royal Palace I have already intimated to you in a former Leuer, where we only made a little stop to view a statueahat was erected formerly in honour to that unfortunate King, the f^thef of the present Prince; which we found in a very Scandalous neglected Condition, and alrnost cover’d with Dirt and Rubbidge. The Gentlemen would have hasten’d me away without giving me time td make any Remarks, or asking any questious, but one of them apprehending, that in all probability
I would desire to know the gause why this excellent Statue was no better taken care of, prevented m.d., by telling me; That this unsortunate King had highly disbblig’d the Stultitians by Several Mifihanage« ments in his Government •, he had told me Some of the Particulars, but the other interpos’d i Says he, The History of this Princei is doiibtless Sufficiently known in all Countries that have ever read or heard anything of the ijland of Fools. We rriay varnish over his Misfortunes, and Shade them with false Colours 5 blit without doubt wherlevef they corno' to b candidly and Sairly stated and represented, they will make as melancholy a Story in the Stultitian Annals,
next to the batbarous and unparallel’d Mtirder of his
'H Father
50
Father, as any that can be found among ’em Since the Sirst beginning of their Monarchy.
By this time stwas thought proper to go to Some Coffeehouse and drink a Pilh of Chocolate, and take a little respit for a quarter of an Hour ^ which happen’d to be that which they call the Touvg Mans., a Coffee hovfe generally frequented by the Officers of the Army, which the Lady Governess by her winning Airs and artful Behaviour has So effectually methodiz’d, that she commands Tom, Harry, Ned, will, Joe, Boh, Phil, and the rest of her Collonels and Field Officers at discretion: : look upon it as a distinguishing mark of her esteem, as often as she’s pleasm to condescend to be so familiar with ’em, to call ’em by those pretty little endearing Nicknames.
One of my Companions had the honour of being known to her Ladyship, who she was pleas’d to favour with the Title of her Counfellour., and as a further Testimony of the Singular regard she had for him, was so kind to Sit down with us, and tell us the News which she that Moment receiv’d from a General of her Acquaintance on the other fide, and might be depended upon for the truest and best in
the island.
My Lord, the Room was so crowded, and the Company so mix’d, that no Man could form any Judgement: Some had the Aspect of Gentlemen of Birth and Education, and behav’d themselves with a great deal of Modesty and good Manners. Others had the Looks and Carriage of Btdlies and Scoundrels, and were so perfectly Brutish and Ignorant, and what was worse, Swore and blasphem’d so intolerably, that a Sober Person cannot be among ’em without imagining the army, where Men are generally Su'pposst to have the opportunity of conversing
with
I
the  . i
with Gentlemen of the most refin’d Parts and brightest Qualifications, to be a nursery of lewdness and Debauchery, and the very Sink of all that’s Vile and Scandalous.
Your Lordship, who has made Sb considerable a Figure in the Afmy, knows very well how careful we are at Venice in the choice of our Officers, and indeed in all the civiliz’d Parts of the World; the Army is esteem’d as the only Academy for the Education of their Young Noblemen and Gentlemen of the first Rank: How the Stultitians come to be Sb miserably defective in this particular they ascribe to several causes, but chiefly to the covetousness of Sbme of their Generals j who as my Companion told me, us’d formerly to make a Trade of the War, and to Sell the Commissions to the highest Bidder, without any regard either to the Character or Qualifications of the Purchaser, which has introduce among "em, abundance of lewd and illiterate Scoundrels, and that hath drawn Reflections and censiires upon the whole Body. One part of the Room was full of these Sort of Fellows j which, one of the Gentlemen afterwards inform’d me, were most of ’em broken tradesmen, Lhckeys, Pimps, Setters, Bayliffs, or the Relations and Dependents of Whores and Bawds, and the Outcasts of fbshe Families that could be difpos’d of by no other method : But what I presiime would have given your Lordihip an equal mixture of Wonder and Contempt, would have been to have heard these Animals talk Politics, and insblently censhre and revile the Government, damn the Ministry, curse the Peace and peacemakers, and all their Adherents : as I my self heard one of ’em, in the Face of the whole Company. _ _ '
I shall not now detain your Lordship with any Reflections upon this part of the Stultitian Policy; though I cannot forbear observing how dangerous as well as
H 2 ridiculous
\
V
52
ridiculous it is for any Government to entrust any (hare of its Safetj^ and Preservation in the Custody,, pf persons of Siich lewd and Scandalous Principles: at least, to Suffer itself with Impunity to be revil’d and vilify’d by those that eat its Bread, and have their foie and ultimate Dependance upon it.
At the Table adjoining to us were Six or Seven y who from the Distance and Respect which the rest pay’d ’em, I believe might be Generals or Officers of a Superior Rank : In the midst of these fate one they call’d dobor, a Man famous among the stuui tians\{oi several little Party Pamphlets he had publifh’d 5 particularly two relating to Peace and War. This dobor, it Seems, had writ on both Sides, and mad himself remarkable for his Trimming and tacking a bout with every Turn and Change of the State. The Company Seem a to hear him with a particular regard and distinction j and indeed, to Speak the truth pf him, I hardly ever obferv’d anybody dictate with a more grave and masterly aslurance.
The Argument then before ’em was upon what Grounds and Pretentions Princes ought to declare War and enter intp Confederacies ^ which, as he very well pbferv’d, was chiefly the breach of the Balance of Power: Adding further, That if the breach of the Balance of Power bf not a Efficient ground for a War, then the Stultitians had no reason to begin their Bloody War with the Gauls 5 but were purely tricpd into it by those who had profpebs of enriching themselves by it; which in truth, my Lord, I take tp be their vcty cafe.
A Colonel that Sat opposite tp him, enter’d the List, and undertook to oppose him, and manag’d the Argument with so much dexterity and strength of reasbn, that the Doctor was often forc’d to Shift his Grounffi and to have recourse to little Logical Arts and Tricks, which shl fiiir gnd candid Disputants reject
wiffi Contempt,. < -.
the  . 55
My Lord, In this wrangling between ’em, for I can call it nothing elfe, there happen’d to drop out several material Occurrences, which I had never before met with; which I Shall take the freedom to lay before your lordjinp, when I have inform’d myself more fully of the Motives that prevaipd with the Stiilutiand, to declare t/ctr with the Gauls: which by all I have yet learned, seem to be exceeding frivolous and ill grounded.
When we were going out of the Door, the idlajor that travei’d' with us from the accosted us ^ and
nothing could prevail with him, but we must dine i together. At Dinner he diverted us with a very merry Description of thp Lady Governess of the cqffee house, and entertain’d us with the Characters of several of her Guests 5 particular with that of the dobor, and his Antagonist: both which, I believe, might not be altogether unworthy your lordjinp's Notice 5 if they would not fill up too much of my Letter, which I am apprehensive has already tress pasted too long upon your Leisure, and so Shall be referred to another time. After Dinner he pull’d out of his Pocket a Papery whi^h, for the Sake of the particular Humour and Design of it, I took the pffins to Copy, and have ventur’d to Send it to you 5 which I beg your lordjidp to excuse, and to place to the Account of the rest of my Impertinences.
\ •
i
3 E Mr
, ■ •• /
54 New Voyage t
9
s
t
_ _ i
i ■ •
,
SEMPER I IDEM:
OR, THE
W H I G S
I
NEW
LITANY.
I
Wortem animum prdftant rebus (fuas turpiter
audenl Jiiv. Sat. 6.
\
great Jove! look down on us poor WHIGS,
With Vigour fill our Hearts j That we in theje mfiable Times,
May wisely ab our Parts!
The Hands of wicked Tories grow More heavy every day j
Qur Trimming Friends their Collars flip.,
ni all w do, betray.
Oh
\
the   5$
t
Ob Jove! thou knovijl'we feldomgive Thy Godhead any trouble;
We never pray but with Dejign,
Or when affixed double.
Then hear us now, and with some PLOT
Injpire us out of Hand 5
That we this Peace may circumvent.
And High Church Power withjiani.
All the fine Projects we had laid.
Are utterly defeated;
And what is worse, we muji refund The treasiire we have cheated.
Nay some there be so wicked grmn.
They Jiick not to declare 5 That we have been the hijlruments Of carrying on the Wax i
I
A War, that has the British Realm To tp Brink of Ruin brought;
Tor which, they lay, we fimuld be hanfd :
Ob who can bear that Thought 1
I
Hear us, great Jove oh! bear us now /
The Powst to us refiore :
And we declare both One and All,
wdu trouble You no more,,
s
Infatuate or Amuse the Dutch j Incline them to believe,
. That
56 A New Voyage t
That we have JHU both Wealth and Friends,
Our Stations to retrieve.
J
Fill the Imperial Court with Hope,
That they may yet regain.
How vain so ere be their Pretence,
The Monarchy of Spain.
*
Raise all d.re Europe Doubts and Fears
New Jealoufes foment 5 Confound at Utrecht all they do 5 Promote frefi) Discontent
*• * /
».. >
'Till Lewis, ( bear us mighty Jove \)
Provoked by our delay;
Send for his mmikiqvs all home.
And all Pbas said, unsay.
I
^ \
Or if that cannot well he done; “•
Then raise a Holy War,
That we to save our selves may take
^ith either hdq our Share. '•. /
/
Rather than be the Tories Slaves, ' ’.
What is it we would not do?
Join either with the Pope or Turk,
Or any Game perjue.
/
Great Jove!. as matters Jiaitd thou know'fi.
Our time is very Jltort:
We therefore pray thee quickly send
dijlrauion to the Courts
Divide
f
the   57
\
yiviie the Ministers of State,
(nd all their Counsels blajt j ndte the Senate to fufpeb, bey are ill seed at lajl,
'ive to the Priests a lying Tongue,
jijlaken Zeal and Pride.,
hat they may preach the People damned,
hoare not on our Sid, e.
Ind grant us once again the MOBB j er now the time draws on,
hen by their Help we may prevail, ind then our Work is done.
tear us j oh! hear us but this Time! bid if we gain our Ends;
’kil make thy Altars daily Smoke, ind be thy faithful Friends,
d'
kit if we fail, and lose the Game, ind by the Tories fall,
either seek another GOD,
)r have no GOD at All.
My two Companions, who were both Tories j and 0 a high degree averse to phanaticism, and all kind )f Antimonarchical Principles, were extremely pleas’d vith it. Says one of them. Though I am no Friend : o Libels and Scandalous Pamphlets, which I look ipon to be one of our greatest Follies j yet Sb long IS the Press is allow’d that extravagant Latitude it low has, and Such multitudes of pernicious Papers
I are
\
58
\ •
are hourly shatter’d among the People •, I think it highly requisite, to prevent the ill consequences that ^ naturally follow, that now and then a Paper of this kind Should be thrown in among the rest; Sir, says he. This Paper gives a few general Items of the Practises of a Stubborn, Turbulent Party which greedily thirst after an absolute Power, to enslave the rest of their Fellow Subjects. Their Stratagems, Plots and Contrivances, to circumvent the Peace, without which they are entirely convinc’d, that the ijland must, be involv’d in perpetual Debts, and o there dangerous Circumstances, beyond the posiibility of a Recovery, are hardly to be believ’d, nor never to be parallel’d. If it was worth your hearing, I could produce such a Catalogue of them, that must at once engage both your Wonder and s^fow but this Shall be none of mji bufiness at present, you’ll hear of stm fast enough in your Progress through the Town. The Major has been sh kind to favour us with one of his Papers; and if I Should not be trou bleshme. i’d Show you one of Mine. ’tis call’d an Elegy upon the Death of the mojl Renown d General War
which after he had read, he gave me the liberty to
Transhribe,
'N
«
\
t
AN
m
the   5*9
'' ii»w i ..«»>■■■*■■■■ —
A N
UPON THE
V
D E AT H
%
Of the most renowii’d
\
GENERAL WAR,
ABY
a Disbanded Officer.
I That have often sung of Seats of Arms,
Of dreadful Sieges, and of stout Alarms;
Of taking cover’d Ways, and forcing Trenches, Mixed with Complaints of poor forsaken Wenches 5 mujl now in doleful Dirge prepare to tell,
flb«; GENEKAL WAR by Difajler fed.
%
Long uncontrouvd he ranged the Bloody Field,
ravag’d large Countries, made strong Cities yield 5
•%.
1 2 pillag’d
6o
pillag’d and plunder’d to enhaimce his Store,
And wallow'd in vajl Floods of Human Gore ^
Had other glorious mischiefs too in hand.
Had Fate not wrefied frotn him the Command.
Oh cruel Fate! to rob him of the Spoile,
When he so near hadfnijh'd all his Toyle;
But jince hd.s dead, Iis pity he Should lie.
And rot, and fiinh, without an Elegy.
jvhere went his Soul, let those that pjeafe relate, jvho dive for Secrets in the Future State.
My muse fall no unknown Meanders tread,
I served him Living, and VU fng him Dead And though' no Muse his Praises can fet forth.
Mine jhau attempt some Sketches of Ms Worth.
A
What Country bred Mm cannot well be known.
Since all his Birth and Parentage dijbwn.
Some Jay indeed.y tbat he was frji begot.
In a State Bpg, and gender d in a Plot *,
Some, that a Tyrant got him in his Luji,
And that he was by Revolutions nursed,
And some with greater Strength of Truth declare,
That he was born rebellion’s Son and Heir.
• #. >
Others report he was of Ancient Race,
But by degrees grew hardened and pajl Grace j And others, that same crafty Politician,
Lay with his Mother in a foul Condition.
'Tis certain this, he mpjl be near allied.
Both to Ambition, Interest, and Pride.
Ambition ipas the Darling of his Soul,
Lid all his as and inmofl Thoughts control.
Pride was his early Vice, the thoughts o/rule,
Alade hhn fubmh to be a Parties Tool;
But Interest, fatal Interest, laid the Snare,
ti^at 4tew him in, and cater'd him unaware.
• * Oh
m rs
 . 6i
Oh who can view the wonders be has done,
jvhat Countries conquered, and what Battles won V But mufi have some regret now he is gone. y
To whine and houle are terms of common grief,
And yield a Soldiers Soul but small relief:
I will not then such empty Tributes pay,
But jtrive to mourn his Fate in a more manly way.
He gave us all lac d Coats and Money Store,
And never fcrupl’d every man his Whore 5 Alas poor Creatures, what will you do now.
half-pay will quickly Jiarve, both us and you,
- We miijl no more on cojlly Dainties dine.
And feajl our Foliates with the nobleji Wine:
Neat Port mujl serve, and after that shall fail.
We muji take up with trusty Mild and Stale.
To keep from Limbo we mujl all Retrench,
And only now and then freak to a Wench.
These are the prospects that his Death hath brought.
But jor himself he's hardly worth a Thought.
A poor voracious Wretch, who to be great.
Did all the Comforts oj his life defeat;
betray’d and vexed the State, dijlurb'd the Laws,
And grew dead drunk with Popular applause.
Thd Years and seasbns varied his Delight,
Nothing could quench his raging Appetite :
Still as his Wealth increas’d, he fill grew poor.
And jlill the Wolf would howle within for more.
/ \
But fnce he's dead, een let him rejl in Peace,
If Wars and Tumults jimuld again increase.
We'll Jirive to find another in his Stead,
Will neither jink our Pay, nor (iop the Soldiers Bread. But leafi too far 1 sir etch his Elegy, f
Let him that loves, or hates, him more than I, >
pr jink bis Name, or raise his Name more High, i
rii
\
62  . See
ni only add these Maxims to the rejl, X
Justice of all the Virtues is the beji L
Courage without it but a commm pejl. 5
Tray tors and Knaves are oft wi comagq graced.
Which hews how ill that Virtue may be pladd.
Titles and Honours may he Bought and Sold,
And Men may barter Consciences for Gold :
Wealth and Applause to Villains may be given.
And Fools from thence perhaps may censure Heaven 5 Footmen and Rascals of a mean Degree,
May by some eajie Prince intruded be ^
Till his immortal Rogueries Succeed,
Betrays him frjl, then glories in the Deed,
But none of these can make ns jujl or Brave,
Justice from reasbn, and from Heaven we have 5 That gives the nobleji tinbure to our Blood,
dweus in the Soul, and makes us Great and Good.
I
My Lord, The rest of the Occurrences of the Day will come to your lord(hip by my next j till then I humbly take leave,
1 '5>
And am your Lordship's.
mojl obedient, See,
d
t
%
t '
V
......I....,!,. ... .... ■■MIIIIM
I
itesmk. ENP,
1 '
J 3 f S
I.'
kjmx^^ !^P*B
ib
.f
. ^tr
» Jvp jij|ihpjj^^^^b
rinafa^^l
.• !^sl|6l™
• tjh5@^h
^k^ksb/
|9I|||^H^^H
*. w!
dn^rz*fii J
