
OF

OR,
A RETURN FROM
INDIA.
A NOVEL,
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS
rrodesse XT SBLXCTARX.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR
WILLIAM LANE, LEADENFALL street.
M DCC XC
U. of ?a.
Lbrery
/
TO
Mrs. M
WHOSE ELEGANT PEN
AND
POLITE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
RENDER HER THE
PATRONESS
OF THE LADIES,
THE FOLLOWING
LETTERS
ARE RESPECTFULLY
LN SERT, B E D;
^ *• 3 ■-
C ■.

PREFACE.

IT may perhaps be thought remarkable, that the Editor of
a Novel should be the very
person to decry Such performances. The World abounds in
contradictions, and this is one of them. Yet mistake me not, gentle reader, I would not affright thee at the very entrance of the following; work. Neither should
any man be misted by names. The generation of novels has Sprung up like Hydras, and in
general they are equally noxious
to Mankind. With a Smiling face they often plant a dagger, and convey a Subtle poison in a Sweetened potion. There have been authors, however, who have endeavoured, under this appearance to reprove and to instruct. They have taken advantage of this mode of publication, to instil useful lestons; and, as it were by accident, to arrest the attention of thosc who Seldom look into a more Serious
book

It may be Said of modern Novels as of many of the old Romances, posterity must look into these for a true delineation of the manners of the times. If this be So, how Should we blush to see the picture of the present day? Too Surely shall we be condemned by our own children, if we can deliver to them no better monuments of our wisdom. The Editor of the following streets does not pretend to determine
J'
what rank they will hold in the estimation of the public, nor give any reason for their appeaRance. One thing only may be alleged in their defence, and that is a desire to amuse;; if they ball Sometimes step a little further, and endeavour to instruct, it is presumed the candid reader will receive them at least
'f
with approbation.
the

lane’s
NOVEL REPOSITORL
JUST PUBLISHED,
Sold by all booksellbr.s, axmd to be read AT EVERY Circulating Library.

A R U L I Ai
Or, The VICTIM or SENSIBILITY
z Vcls. lamo. 5s. sewed.
ADELINE
3 Vols, imo. 7s. 6 1. Sewed.
Velina de g u i d o va
r
3 Vols. lamo. 7s. fid. sewed.
ELOISA de CLAIRVILLE

« Vols, izmo. 5s. sewed.
J
MEMOIRS
AND
OPINIONS
Mr. B L E N F I E L D.
By THE Author of Tales of sympathr;
2. Vols. lamo. cs. sewed.

COUNTESS OF HENNEBON,
AN HISTORIC STORY.
3 Vols. 7s. 6d. sewed.

W. Lane begs to inform any person, either in town or country, desirous of commencing a Circulating Library, that he has always, ready bound, several thousand volumes, in History, Voyages, Novels, Plays, fuitabje for that purpofej and that he will be happy in instructing them in the manner of keeping a Reading Library On an address to him at leadenhall street, they may receive an immediate supply of entertaining books
Any lady or gentleman having inovels, c in manufenpt, which they would wish introduced to the public, on favouring a line, may depend on having them printed in the mpll correct and dega»t
V
mannert
Ill ti ji LI
— *
if'l "«;

THE

Q F
ERIENDSH ILL
LETTER
L
Mrs. Scudamore to Miss Darnley
•r
Madras., jfuly 23, 1786.
AS H IP is under sail for England.
What joy would be contained in that little Sentence, if it were to convey poor Emily to her Eliza! — But alas! no such felicity is in lore for your friend! Destined to consume years of splendid miser Hope has nothing to rest upon, but our return again to that dear country
vol I.
B
2  .
where alone we may find tranquillity, and where alone are those who wish to promote it. Yes, my dear Eliza, the dream i s at an end; and I awake to a just sense of those scenes which once danced before my imagination
in such gay and alluring colours, and
which at that time had power to con foie me even for a Separation from you. But ambition Shall no longer cciiiroul my heart, which once more 'ays itself at your feet with all its infantine tenderness; divested, perhaps, of Some of follies but full of that
afebion which rolling years have increased, and which your merit and your love so amply demand.
But why do I begin a letter to you in this melancholy ftrainwhy do I not first tell you that I am in health, that myhulbandis so too, and that he stili
loves
. .
loves me! — all which is fbriftly true. Then why, ungrateful Emily, com
She
once
plain? It is, thought Splendour and magnificence would console her for those friends, and that country, she abandoned;
V
that Ihe mould return loaded with riches, to the Same pleasures, the same Society, and the same attachments. ileason and reflection have at laftdrawn aside the veil Spread by avarice and ambition. 1 perceive that it is possible I
to return to my native land in a much more affluent fly le than that in which I left it; but with a constitution unable to enjoy what it is in my power to purchase, and a mind that has lost all relish for everything but the balm of , which no one remains to administer.
mav
B

4'  Of frlehtishlpi
Reflections like these occupy the greater part of those hours, which, while our fortunes were moderate vere Spent in the axive exertions of benevolence. To the inhabitants of this sultry clime, indolence is not only an obligation but a necessity, and I begin to fear the lassitude of the body will affex the mind; for I fancy, that my ideas are not So lively as they used to be. My husband laughs at my fears, and persuades me, ( or endeavours to do So) that I am quite as agreeable as; he says, the women here want life and spirit, and are so uninform’d, that I need not be under any apprehensions of loling the charaxer I have
ever
already eftablilhed.
There is one thing that adds greatly to my dislike of this place, the almost impossibility of hearing from my
English
 . 5
Enelilh friends; I have had but one leto

ter from you since 1 arrived, and surely one letter in two years, is a poor recompense for whole months Spent in anxiety and expectation. This is the constant complaint here, but it is not the less disagreeable to me that I have partners in my concern. I beg you will never Send me anything but by the company's pacquet, as letters given to private hands Seldom arrive. My letters to you, it Seems, have been equally unfortunate. I was weak enough, you may remember, to imagine, that the care I had taken of diana’s education, and the favours I had bellowed on her would have kept her in my Service, as I dreaded the very idea of being waited on by strangers; I thought ( tho*really a pretty girl) that her attachment to me would have kept her in my Service, till at lead I

B 3
had
W riath F

had got a little inured to the ctifloms and the natives of this place. She was indeed very attentive to me on the voyage, and her cheerfulness helped to Support me under the fatigues of it; but we had no Sooner arrived here, than a young man who had Seen her land, came to inquire her chara(5ter, and mentioned
his intention of mar
Tying
her. Should it meet with my approbation. I will confess to you that for a moment I was very felfilh, the
thought
s
of being
left entirely to
new people were dreadful, and I was half inclined to enlist on her Services; but affection got the better of Self, and I Said all for her that I really knew She deserved. The young man immediately made his proposals which were accepted. She attempted, to Say Something in her defence; and as I Saw the
 . 7
joy that had taken poiteffion of her heart, I was determined to throw no damp upon it. I forgave everything but my own folly, in dilbelieving what my friends told me would be the consequence. She now visits me in a most superb palanquin, and is oi an
•4
equality with most people here
This reminds me, that I have never once told you the history of poor Eleanor Gaylove, whom I think you took notice of, when you left me on
board the Indiaman, Her father, who
4'
lives at St. Helena, had Sent her over to England under the care of general M -- -- --, to be educated; and Ihe was
to return with him when he Should be again ordered to India, which it was more than propable would be the cafe in a few years. This, as was expected.
took place the very year of our de
/
4
parture;
t

parture; her clothes were all packed up with Mrs. M -- -- -- -
-- -- sin whose Suite
she was to go; and as they expected to sail at a short warning Ihe had left school, and wa in the house with
Mrs.. M -- -- *
It happened that their disposition were entirely opposite to each other, and the consequence was a very high disagreement between the ladies. The general espoused his wife’s cause, and ihew’d Eleanor letters he had wtitten
to her father, with an account of her
✓
behaviour, which he resolved to send in the fiiil ship that Should fail. She had every reason to fear he would take this Step, but was sanguine enough to think his humanity would prevent so
f *
cruel a procedure. The general did not fail in the Ship first mentioned, but eager to get quit of his charge, he put
 . 9
her on board the Minerva, with only half her wardrobe, the rest of her apparel being packed up with mrs.m’s, who would not be at the trouble to Separate them. This however seem’d noobftacle to our lively friend, she came amongst us as gay as a lark; exulting in the idea of feeing her parents, and that little country where all her hopes were centred; it contained, in the word home, everything in her idea, that the heart could wifti for,.
Every one was delighted’ with the little lively paltenger, whose Spirits, I believe, contributed to keep her in health; and she nursed, rallied, and confoied every one. It was impossible not to be fond of so artless a creature; and we both grieved and rejoiced at sight of that island where she was to be left. We rejoiced on her account,
B 5' and
\
16  '..
and mourned for our own loss. On our anchoring, Mr. Scudamore waited on the governor, and'also on Mr. gay love, to inform him of his daughter’s arrival, left her immediate appearance,, when not expected, might have some bad effect.; but what was his afto niftiment, to find that tliofe letters which general M — had threatened to send, had really arrived! That her father was inexorable, and would not allow her to land, but abandoned her. to the winds and the waves, — more merciful than himself
\
Mad some difticulty onmriscud amore’s return to the ftiip, to know in what manner to inform the poor
4.
girl of this cruel determination; and when told, what was to be done in consequence of it. A general council of women was called, who were, all una
nimou

 . II
Dimous in offering every assistance in their power; a wardrobe was formed out of the stock which each of us possessed, and it was determined to take her to India, and endeavour to make the bell of her desperate situation,, thought, poor girl! she mufl: have died at being thus deserted; but her happy disposition got the better of the Shock, and in a few weeks after She had. left the island, she became calm and composed., On hearing we had determined to carry her to India, an d take: care of her, 1 thought gratitude would. have had the same forrowfui effect: which we expected from misfortune.. She poffelfes one ofthofe dispositions hat kindness may lead to anything; but harih treatment hardens and reni

ders obdurate what is naturally' a very noble, health
A
t


XZ
At Madras fly became my gueff:, and remained so for Some months, till a gentleman of large property, an acquaintance of Mr. scudamore’s, who lived at Cudalore, carne about some buiiness; he was frequently with us, was soon charmed with our ward, and offered her his hand, and a fortune almost completed. She told him how fenlible she was of his kindness, and hoped the esteem she had then for him would in time grow to affe<5lion, as she had no other prepossession;; — he was Satisfied with this confession she was entirely his. They were married.
Madras
and she
now writes to me that she is the hap piefl of mortals.

<• >
General M — has fet everything to rights with her parents, his resentment
having subsided before he reached St
Helena i
/


Helena; and they have written to her most kindly, acculing themselves in the Severed; terms of their cruelty, and willing only for the happiness of blessing her before they die. Her husband talks of quitting India in a Short time, and returning to Spend the remainder of his days in England. I will write by her, and introduce her to your acquaintance, as I think her extremely amiable. Mr. Scudamore comes to tell me I mud cease Scribbling, as the pacquet mud be made up today. Adieu, my deared, bed friend; think of me often, and believe me evc^
your s
Emily Scudamore,
Mn
14  .
Mr. Scudamore in continuation
I have been quarrelling with Emily, because Ihe will not permit me to read her letter to you, 1 have therefore told her plainly, that she may be jealous if Ihe chooses, but I am determined to write to you myself, if it is only for the pleasure of abuling her, which I certainly jfhall do very heartily; and you will allow, I am sure, that Ihe deserves no favour, who dares to write letters a husband may not see. I know. she sighs after England, tho’ Ilie would not have me know k; but I will tell you that her sighs Shall not lall long, for I will return as soon as my affairs are fettled; as that is uncertain, I would not mention a time to her which
perhaps
 . 15
perhaps I might not be able to keep.
But I forget that I was going to
abuse her. You will find how little
%
V
reason. I have to indulge her, when I say, that in spite of the luxuries of this place she remains temperate, — in spite of lovers, Ihe is chaste— — in spite of the climate she is beautiful. She does not game, tho’ nothing is So fashionable— — does not talk scandal, though there is no other conversation in the circle which Ihe frequentsand to sum up all her crimes and misdemeanours, Ihe reads fermons to her dependents! — Did you ever hear of so unaccountable a woman? or one so unfit
'>
for this place
Farewell, Eliza, I trust Ilhall brin your friend to you in aihort time, with
i6
 .
<■
as many virtues as fly had when you parted; and with as much love for you as you can possibly expect from one who ( I believe) dotes upon
Your humble Servant,
Lionel Scudamore,

LETTER II
Miss Darnley, to Mrs. Scudamore.
fvansford houfey January 3, 1787.
GUR letter, my dearest Emily, was the moll welcome messenger of . To hear you are well must at all times give me pleasure, but particularly so after a silence which had given me great unealinefs. Let not unnecessary fear, my friend, embitter those comforts you at preserrt poliefs; my affection for you is always
the


 . IJ
A
the Same, and whether you hear from me or not, my Sentiments can never alter. If it were not improper to Show any signs of discontent, I, too, would blame fortune for our Separation; the bonds, however, of amity reach far beyond the distance at which we are now placed; love and kindness are not confined within the narrow circle of a Kingdom; they Shine alike in every clime, and every good heart alike feels
Si
their influence. Affection, as the bright luminary of the day, gilds the dawning of the morn, and addsfrefh lufbre to the evening Ihade. As our  was formed in that early period of life when the mind is moll fusceptible of every tender sentiment, and has through Succeeding years increased in vigour, I doubt not but at the close of life we Shall have the heartfelt satisfaction of refleding, that we have been mutual
T
l8  .
Supports to each other; and Shall have proved female friendihip, not merely a chimaera, but a blessing bellowed by heaven on favoured mortals to make this rugged life delightful.

You will cxpe<5t I should give you Some account of what is pafiing amongst your friends, but the truth is, I live so retired, that, except in my own circle, I am almost as little acquainted with the gay world as you are. With respect to myself, I Spend my time in pursuing the plan I formerly marked out. Our neighbourhood has Suffered most Severely in the death of our amiable and worthy re6lor, Dr. Morton; to regret the loss of so good a man would be felfilh, yet you can Scarce imagine how much I want him; his advice was my guide, and his opinion, the tell by which I proved
all
 .
S
All my actions; if he applauded, 1 could not have a doubt of doing right. His soul was as much Superior to flattery, as his firm mind was above being biass’d by any accident. His amiable wife dill continues in the village
; and as the living is not yet disposed
of, Ihe has not quitted the house.
My favourite, Fanny Weft, is very well married to a young farmer, who lives upon one of my edates, So that I dill enjoy her Society. Her husband is a well informed, lenlible man, and I flatter myself I shall at lad have the pleasure of feeing a happy matrimonial connexion. don’t midake me, Emily, I mean not to cad a censure upon you,. or my other married friends; but you are ail at too great a didance for me to judge of your happiness. Tell Mr.
Scud
20
 GF .
Scudamore I am particularly obliged to him for his letter; he could not have found a subject more to my taste than that he fixed upon. Your Story of Eleanor I thank you for, and well remember how much I was pleased with her on board the Indiaman. It appears, Emily, very extraordinary, how any parents who were not altogether void of feeling, could at Such a time, and So situated, forsake their child, tho’ her conduct had been ever so imprudent. Where was that natural affection, which we fuppose Seated by instinct in the heart .SHAD Ihe been an outcast of fortune. Tent to plead for charity, how inhuman Should we have thought them to have refused their prote ion! — But a child! — a helpless girll who had no other friends but themselves, and who, as their daughter, had never offended, r what
 . 2t
excuse can they plead? Well may they willi to Sec her, and beg her for giveness! In the sight of heaven their crime is very grcan
But whither am I rambling? I have been so Ihocked, that any creature, who has received So much from a merciful creator, Should ad: in Such a direct contradidion to all his laws, that I cannot write with patience on the subject.
I am sofar from wondering at diana’s conduct, that I was all along convinced, that her chief motive for going along with you, was the prospect of preferment. If she is happy, I am sure you will feel satisfied that you did not prevent her inclination from taking its full Scope, but allowed
Princess
9
t
Si
9
I look forward with great pleasurc to the time when I Shall once more See my Emily; I flatter myself, it will not now' be long. Support that time, which you are obliged to remain, with a firmness becoming your good understanding; and remember, whilst you
t
are indulging a fretful dsfeontent, you are destroying the peace of a man you
I
have vowed to love and honour, and who'feems worthy of your tenderness. I have Sent you all the newspapers aiid magazines for the last year; perhaps they may for a moment amuse, and make you forget you are sofar from one who loves you with an undilfem bled affection, and who can with truth subscribe herself,
your faithful friend,
N
Eliza Darnley.
LETTER
 .

LETTER
III
miss Darnley to Lady Julia Harcourt
peansford haiife^ February 28,
Your letter, my Julia, gave me
infinite pleasure; but yet it was attended with Some sensations not so^ perfectly agreeable. I felt ashamed to receive a letter from you, before I had once acknowledged those obligations I had so lately experienced from your amiable family. My warmest thanks are due to my dear Lady St. Clair, for her attention; her many qualifications have made an impression on my mind that time cannot efface, and my eft ambition isto follow her steps tho’ at an humble distance. .Virtue cannot
but
24

but be admired in every situation, but it miili be particularly pleasing, when placed upon an eminence whfere So many are apt to turn giddy with their height— — mother unites in her
V
person those lejfer virtues as the world' are pleased to call them, which are yet difficult to attain, with qualifications of a more important nature. That winning grace with which Ihe acquits herself on the moll trifling occasion, attended with true piety, has made her in my opinion, a model, to follow which would be the furell road to perfe(51; ion; How happy are you, my amiable friend, in Such a parent? How many tears has the sight of Lady St. Clair ^ coll me? I, too, Julia, had a parent, blelted with heaven’s best gifts, but alas! I was deprived of her ava time when her advice was particularly necessary It was the will of heaven in
one
wrtath 6f triencsiiip. 25
one year to deprive me of both my amiable and ever to be lamented parents. That I may be forgiven for the mmy hours I haivefpent in fruitless tears, and I doubt iinful regrets, is my earnest prayer.
You will tell me, Julia, L am .grave? can you wonder at my being So, left in this wide world without one near connexion, a solitary being? and though fortune has been liberal in her favours to me, I find many hours which might have been agreeably employed in pleasant Scenes of domestic intercourse. I am particularly happy, my Julia, in your ?? you I centre all my love; and whilst we continue in this world, I am Sure our firm band of amity will never be broken.
Vok L
€

\
26
 .
You have often exprelted a Surprise, and particularly in your last letter, that I Should remain so long in a State of celibacy. As I find m5.dlf this morning in a Serious humour, I am determined to resolve all your doubts. Frommy earliest infancy, you may remember, I have been taught to reason and reflect. My excellent parents gave this bias to my mind, which, in the Subsequent years of my life, I have
found produ<5live of the greatest happiness.
However, of this I may be certain, that if reason and reflection have not always produced as much positive happiness as I expe<5ted, they
N
have, at least, preserved me from many Scenes of wretchedness, which I might otherwise have encountered.
Upon looking through the world, and observing the married life with no
incurious

 . 27
incvrious eye, I perceived ( or thought I perceived) a want of that happincss which unmarried lovers generally expect. That connexion which has for its end everything that is amiable and friendly to human nature; that connexion which was formed for the wisest and best purposes, is from the perverse humours of mankind, frequently rendered a heavy yoke; a burden difficult to be born,
^ ■ f. '
This observation, my friend, does not imply a censure upon the State itself, but upon the perversidn of so Sacred an ordinance. Sincerely I can say with Milton,
Hail wedded love, mysterious law! by
<
thee,
Founded on season, loyal, just, and pure, “Relations dear, and all the charities Of father, fon, and brother, ftrft were known:
Perpetual fountain of domestic Sweets I
C a
After
23
 .
After making this honourable mention of matrimony, I may be allowed to condemn those who turn this
ft
houseoflove, and mansion of peace, into a den of wild animals. Indeed, too frequently have I seen those, who in every resped had it in their power to make each other happy, labour with no common pains to procure mutual misery, I do not absolutely say that they study the art of tormenting; yet So little do they endeavour to give pleasure to each other. So Seldom do they think it necessary, either to hear or forbear, that they drag through the remainder of their lives a miserable ex
4
iftence. I say nothing of the children of Such unhappy marriages. Formed upon - the model of their parents, they Hep forth into life with the Same passions and prejudices; and in their turn act the same wretched part their parents did before them. To
 OP . 29
To engage, then, in a matrimonial connexion, is a matter of much greater importance than the world generally imagines. If two persons were to be (hut up together in a box, and fight till they were tired, then sleep and fight again, there would be nothing in it; but when this contentious humour is to be handed down from generation to generation, when children’s children are to be the unhappy Sufferers, better is it to remain not only almoji, but altogether such ns I am.
And now, my lively friend, I think I hear you say I reason too deeply. Perhaps that may be the cafe; but as I mull be the bell judge of my own happiness, I Shall not attempt to maka any apology for the peculiarity of my
Sentiments After this I doubt not but you will imagine that I am determined
C 3
to
30  OF friendshx'pv
to remain in a state of old.maid tfmi blit perhaps you may be mistaken. To many, a state of celibacy abounds with comforts, comforts which are not at all times to be exchanged for the preca rious happiness of a married state; yet when that happincss does arrive, when love and confidence meet under the same roof, adieu every thought of Solitary life. Weleomie those tender charities that Milton Speaks of, which are produflive of the highest state of happiness our beings are capable of enjoying in this life; which Support us on our way through those pe r plexed paths which must be passed by the happiest of mankind; and open a future prospebt, where the deficiencies of this lower world will be eft febtually made up by uninterrupted love and perpetual delight. •

 OP . 3i
I will not apologise to you, my friend, for the Serious manner in which I have answered your letter; and only beg, that through every Scene of existence, I may find you the same. Make my best love to your dear father and mother, and tell them, my grateful heart will remember their kindness to me whilst it has any fern
chan gin g
O
Adieu, my Julia, your’s.
^liza Darnicy
C 4
LETTER
, 3^
 OT frl, enbshir>
L E T T E K
IV
Lady Julia Harcourt, to miss Darnley
jlewngjion dthheyy March j
Have just periised my dear eliza^s letter, full fraught with oldmaid ifm, and cannot Say I am at all delighted with the Sentiments therein delivered. You Say, you have looked at the world with no incurious eye; So have numbers, without understanding it. Pardon me, I don’t mean this as any refledlionoii your own judgement, on the contrary but I will not pay any compliments that may look like flattery. The world, you may perhaps have heard, is large; and when you have Said that of it, you have affirmed
what

 .
OA
what is only certain about it. You may be told, indeed, it is wise, it is knowing, it is learned; or that it is a false world, a base degenerate world, a world of wickedness; or that it is a strange world; a whimsical world, a censorious world; this, I. say, you may be told, and no one perhaps tell an untruth about it. Only remember this, that whatever fault or. failing"any persons
condemn in the
they
themselves are almoll furs to be par ticularly guilty of it.. Thus you can -- not blame, me, for so often, traversing this Earth, drawing' in every day of my life so many pints of air, eonfuming & much bread and water, without
having made one obfervatioa on the world. But ferioully, my dear friend, if you have been so close an observer of the matrimonial Hate, it Should have been with a view tc reform it, and not

C 5
to
34
 .
, to Ihrink from it; and depend lipon it, example is beyond everything in that
• case.

I cannot agree with you that it is not so happy a Hate as unmarried people in general believe. I think it by far the most probable way to enjoy earthly happiness, to enter into the connubial life, where two people are joined by mutual affection founded on esteem, with a full intention to exert all their powers of pleasing to render each other blelfed.
Thought meeting thought, and will
preventing will.
With boundless confidence I for nought
but love
Dan answer love, and render bliss Secure.’^
When we find the cafe otherwise, believe me it is no fault of the married thite; but owing to the improper manner
.1
 . 35
ner in which people generally form their connexions. When we See interest the chief motive of their union, and the parties themselves meet with the utmost indilference, is it to be wondered that aversion and disguft Should be the consequence, and that k Should end in a miserable Separation?
I think our Englilli ladies oughtj of all others, to Set the example of hap piness in a .married life. The peculiar advantages we., enio.y in our laws and conllitution, Seem to point them out as proper objects to Shine in the do rnellic circle. Let me tor a moment
I
transport you into Holland, where the beauteous female blots her fingers in the countin g house, .and bears the whole load of mercantile drudgery; can it be expected that She will Shine in the Softer Scenes of life? — Or, let me
convey
'I
A
3®
W R E A T H 0 F F R r E ND S HIS.
convey to your imagination our more
polite neighbours, the Madames of
fit
The
females of these countries are too
\
little subje.ft to the laws of restriction
to make a, figure in private life
If too great confinement be the .fault
of Spain, the inhabitants of either fide
of the Alps seem.to have fallen into the
opposite extreme; tho’ liberty and freedom
osyriil be. desirable., yet too great
a licentioufness of manners is an error
ever to be avoided. T he liberty of
France, and the difitokitenels of the
Italians, are extremes in condnft
equally unfavourable to kappinefs in
the married life., — England, however,
mayboaft greater things; tho’ I am
af
raid in some degree there is reafomto.
'think we have been too
•near neigh
'bolirs to the f.reneh
genuine'
.f
 OF FRI ENDSHIP.
37
English ladies ( I 'mean those vvhose manners and morals have never been corrupted by eroding the Channel between Dover and Calais) poitess the happy medium in vain to be met with in other nations. Here, we See beauty, not (hut up in convents; here we behold virtue and Symmetry refle6l each other. The females of England are too discreettoneed restraint; and in general have enough of liveliness not to be deprelted with every misfortune. The aiety of their hearts, which isthe effect of virtue and innocence, enlivens the thorny path of life. Smooths the rugged bed of care, and teaches their admiring country men, that to be cheerful and happy, is to he good. are'these fair nymphs devoted to the sacred bands of wedlock We behold the lovely wife Soothing the hulband’s pain; we see the charming mother smiling
upon
38  OF FRIEN dship.
upon her beauteous offspring whihl the enamoured Swaiir complexes the pleasing group, with looks of cordial Dw, .hanging over his thrice happy family. — these are the' daughters of Britain I
But let me not be partial'; let me Subjoin. one word in behalf of manly virtue; where those who rule have discretion, those who obey will have no reason to complain of oppression: tis the coward who is cruel, the brave are ever open and; generous. The fons of old England have, always been the fons of true courage;, and if our daughters have grown up under our hands like a flourishing and beautiful shrub, our hardy Ions have lifted up their heads to heaven, like a towering and magnificent oak, which by its strength protesf s, and by its Ipreading branches shelters
the

39
the tender Ihrub from every danger of the inclement Iky.
I think it is now high time that I Should put a flop to my disquisition upon the Subject; and if my arguments in favour of matrimony have not persuaded you to become one of that honourable fraternity, at least I hope, if ever again you hear me charged with levity or want of thought, you will do me the jullice to acknowledge that I have made observations on the world, and all things in it. — And that they have induced me, when a proper opportunity Shall offer, to add one more to the number of happy couples.
Witness my Hand, Julia iiarcourts
f A
•• V •*
..; A

AO  OF friendshm'.
LETTER V
I ^
• Mrs. Seutiamore, to Klifs Darnley
madrasy Odiober b, 1786,.
HE Seamen who navigate the ships that convey my letters to you, are much obliged to our ; for I continually offer prayers for their .preservation, for fair winds,. Smooth Seas, and quick pafsages. I have every reason to believe, and hope, that my wishes are propitious, as I hear of many of them arriving Safe, and Hill you receive very few of my remembrances. Who Shall I accuse then of this cruel negle6l? Not the winds or the waves, for they are very gallant; and were 1 a heathen, and
offered
S
\
 . 41
offered Sacrifices to Amphitrite, I could not poftibly expert more attention than I receive. I mull complain then of those fellifh men of business, who think of nothing but gain, and
r
look on letters as mere matters of form and no better than waste paper; and never conhder the anxieties and ex’ pe6tations, andthose heart aches which the loss of them occasion. But do not imagine I have vanity enough to think my prayers are of So much avail; — for if I do but call to mind the love and affection every ship is freighted with, I cannot wander they are in general So fortunat

I have received one pacquet from you since I wrote lad, full of kindness and entertainment; it has transported me to England, and I am at this mo iient Sitting with you in your dressing
room
t

.•!
u,.
42  .
room, talking ( in idea) over every Subject: from which we extracted pleasure in our younger days. I attend you to your greenhouse, your poultry yard, your Shady walks, and the banks of that charming rivulet which washes those hanging meadows, and winds so sweetly thro’ your large domain. Here everything is vast and magnificent! We can Show you the Ganges or the Indus, but are Strangers to that little rippling current, which so often beautifies the Britilh landscape, and, as Dr. Byron says,
“Would dance in Soft murmurs thepeb bles among..”
At another time, in a mild tranquil evening we walk to your village, where yon difpense health, and happiness, and receive the blelfings and thanks of all your, dependants.: — How happy, compared to the generality of the pear
Sants,


%
A V
 OF FRI ENDSHIP. 43
ianfs, are those So depending; and how real' and how permanent is your happiness drawn from fopurea Source! How preferable to the princely bondage we suffer here 1^ — where we cannot move without a train of poor wretches who tremble at a nod; and think a smile a blessing of too high a value to be enjoyed by persons whose lot is servitude— — creatures! I thank heaven, our domestics have no Severity to accuse us of; and I hope they are at lead as happy as we can make them in their present situation.
I mud confess to you a great weak ness, that I am yet hardly reconciled to their complexion; but I endeavour to reason myself out of So absurd a prejudice, by considering, that if they had been born fubjeds of Britain, it is possible they might have poffelied fairer
skins
/
 .
\
P
shins; and, on the contrary, had I been a native of Indoftan, I might at this moment have been wetting the blinds of Some capricious beauty, who would censure or commend my offici ousness, as her humour directed;; perhaps reward me with a blow for my assiduity if she had no need for the service I was engaged in;
You, who are all benevolence and charity, can have no idea how your country women treat these poor creatures; who Suffer their tyranny for the
%•
sake of present Support, and bend beneath the yoke, in general, withcheer sulness, and Ihow a faithfulness and honesty which perhaps Sometimes are not to be found in the breads of their masters— — you, who were always an enemy to Scandal, will Say, I grow censorious, and that, disliking the
country
OF . 45
a
country, I cavil at every one in it; that I am indulging a habit of mind, always of rapid growth, which will unfit me both for my present Situation, and when I return to that dear Speck
the goal of all my
of the
globe
hopes and wishes.
Scudamore has told me, that perhaps in another twelvemonth his affairs will be So far fettled as to allow us to leave India. How kind he is to give me this intelligence, and how rateful I feel for this proof of his affection! — Ifhufbands did but know how much they gain by giving to a wife ( whose interest and happiness is inseparable from theijr own) their con fidence, Surely they would never withhold So easy a method of conferring happiness,
You
a6 of

You alk my opinion of the world on this Side the waten whether it aboimdi with those vices, those follies, and those crimes, which So debase and Spoil the one I have left? — Exactly the same, my dear Eliza! nor will you doubt it, when you consider who are the persons that form this Society. That they are men, wanting fortunes, and taking various methods to procure them; married to women chiefly adventurers, as mercenary as them selves; Some, perhaps, with liberal educations, and Some without any. But comparing the smailness of this place to your vast metropolis, I believe upon the whole we are quite as goodi and could I cease to pine after those friends from whom I am Separated, and endeavour to look on the bright fide of the pidfure, 1 should often meet, not only with entertainment,
hut,
 . 45?
f
but, what a less Serious mind than my own would call pleasure.
The ladies here have no care about their houses or their Samiliesy — I mean, they abound in So much plenty, that the wants of a family never prey upon the Spirits; and fine clothes, fine equipages, and fine houses, help to keep
up that gaity which takes possession
■
hearts at ease; neither filled with deep knowledge, or deep thought, and which are not much troubled with fensibility. This makes the women lively companions, and the men, byaflbciatingsomuch with us, become attentive and polite.

We have concerts in a very good fiyle, ( in which I Sometimes take a part) and dramatic performances by gentlemen and ladies above mediocrity;
h
; i 11
I
i! |!
i
it
. <
(. I i
\
i
fi
r
t
it 11
1
'*
48  .
crity; but of these I can be nothing more than a, Spectator, not havin confidence enough in my own abilities to venture to appear in So public a Situation. My husband has attempted tragedy, and 1 believe, would he attend to the art, ahd give up Some time to it, he would probably Succeed; but he says it is not his profession, and he leaves it to those who have more time to throw away, and minds more inclined to light amusements.
Farewell, Eliza, my next will be conveyed to ybu by Mrs. dennison, rny lively Eleanor. — Do not forget to
4
make my remembrances to all my favourites, and to those who have not yet forgot your
Emily Scudamore.
LETTER
 .
49
LETTER VI
miss Courtney, to Lady Julia Hauourt
March g..
pprelted and bending beneath a load of grief, that at present almost deprives me of fensation, to whom shall I unbosom myself, but to you, my Sympathising Julia

Mrs. Gibson, our dear Mrs.' Gibson, is no more! How will that Sentence wound your feeling heart! The friend of our early.years, — ^^ihe who pointed out to us the paths of virtue, is Snatched away by the cold hand of death! My agonies at this time are not to be described. She was Seized with a vi

Voi. I
D
olent
»
I *
!; i
/:;
’ i i
I -
r \
i!!
'{ t
i
1 •
. 1! I •
I 1
i I
1 :
I I
50  .
olent fever, which in a few da)rs put a period to her valuable life; Ihe had scarce any lucid intervals from the beginning of her disorder, till within a few moments of her death
As I was Standing weeping over her, Ihe looked a little more composed, and snatching my hand with the little remaining Ilrength fly had left, prcss’d it to her lips, exclaiming, ‘^my child! my Selina! who (hall comfort thee?” and soon after expired.you may judge of my situation, I fell fenseless on the door, and for Several hours all efforts to restore me were ineffedual. But it was the will of heaven that I should not remain in that enviable state; I awoke once more, fully sensible of all the horrors of my situation— — disconsolate! wretched;!
Soon
 . 51
Soon after this event Some distant relations of my dear departed benefactress came to take polteffion of her house and eife£ls. But how unlike herself! One of them observing me almost Ilupified with grief, told me very plainly, that as he saw the Scenes around me only Served to heighten my distress, I had better be packing up and, preparing for my departure. How his words pierced my soul! Whither Oiall I go, thought I, left alone, a miserable being in this wide world;
to whom shall I apply for relief? Early negleded by my. parents, from from whom alone I had a claim for
s
protection; now deprived by the stroke of heaven, of a friend who has been more than a parent to me, — What will become of me!
D 4
Oh!
I ’
• • » i \ i
HI
CI
i i ’
II
»» /
mi
i
fli
n
I
L
‘ I
i ^
«;
i..
'!

1;
I; t)
i!
!i LII
Si
i!
Iw
! M
!!
ht it
i
1 * ']
ill
h:
i LI
; i
ir r
ii
.1 I
I
52  .
Oh! my friend, how cutting is the reflection that my own relations never inquire afterme! — But let me not rashly blame them, perhaps they have been, like myself, children of misfortune ^ and are now Struggling with all the hardihips of adverhty. Or, perhaps, fate has long since put a period to their existence; and I, wretched outcast!' am the only remaining branch of my miserable family.
But do not, my dear Julia, do not be too much diftrelted for me; I have fortitude, and I trust, on this trying occasion, I can exert it. Reason and reflection will do much for me. Heaven, for its own wise purposes, hath thought fit to afflict me; but I have this heartfelt satisfaction, that there will never be laid upon the
children
II
t ■; • « 4 \
 . 53
children of affli(^lion, burdens heavier than they are able to bear.
To your dear mother I now apply, as the only Surviving friend I have, for counsel and advice. I know her goodness will prompt her to point out to me the best method for my future plan of life. I think if any old lady wanted a companion to read to her,
i
that spent a very retired life, it would be the most eligible to my present turn of mind; for indeed, my dear friend, I am ill calculated for the bullle of a jmblic life. — But whatever your mother thinks bed; for me, that I will, with all the cheerfulness in my power, pursue. I make no apology to you, my beloved friend, for thus pouring out before you the Sorrows of our
Selina Courtney

u3
LETTER
: I
\
j
CM
ipi
lb
ihi
• O' 1: > 11 ■
Hi
II
III
C
is
I
M
: «
ill
! i f
'j • i
I i
i
t >
. * *
northwest
ib
‘ 1
M
I « I
LI
■ H

: .il
LI
y ‘!

IC
UI
. f
f » L
Tt'
HK
Mi
LI
I:!, i
ui i Il'
f i
* •!'
nj
I'm
‘ o
f
r «
'i!
I II I
lin

i
1m
Mi
1
It
ic H ^
ilt
: Ul ' T h
4 L L
mh
‘ O i
I:
i i
L ‘. 1
: I J >. i
ir
tu I i
I : •:
'; 1
C 5
1- C,;
•': I 1.;
M
i.;
; I
■ I i I t 1
O',
i!


5‘4  OF F RT END SHI f..



L E T T E R Vn.
Latfy Julia liar court, to • miss jiamley.
T
JLA~
ivingston’‘ahbey, March to.
Place just received a letter from
my friend Selina Courtney, which
has rendered me unfit for any Society
but your’s, my Eliza; to you, I can.
with unrestrained confidence lay open
every feeling of - my heart. She informs
me of the death of our worthy
Mrs. Gibson; a circumstance, which
would at any time have given me pain.
but the peculiarity of my poor friend’s
situation, must make it So truly dis
treffing to her, that I am. afraid her
Spirits, naturally weak, will be hardly
able to sustain the shock.
You
’ r
‘ \
 ,
9
You have often, I am Sure, heard me praise her for personal graces and mental accomplishments; she certainly poffeltes both in a much more eminent degree than is in general the lot of human beings; and joins with them, a dispoiition so sweet, so engaging, that it is impossible to know her, and notloveher. She was, when very young, brought to Mrs. gibfon^s School to be educated, by a middle-aged, decent looking woman, whom Selina at that time called the housekeeper; but has now no recollecflion of, nei there can Ihe remember the place Ilie came from, or give any account of her family or friends. The deaths Ihe brought with her were expensive; and seemed to denote profusehefs in those who had procured them for her. A large allowance was Sent regularly every quarter by an unknown hand;
D 4
but

I i

■
1

r

L
i 1
> t
I
i
L
f
11
list
56  .
but after this woman left her, ' no one

C ame to see her.
One day as Mrs. Gibson was looking
amongst her clothes, fly perceived
afmall box; it contained a jewel of
grdat value, wrapped up in a piece of
white paper, in which these words
were written in. a female hand,
“This jewel mull be constantly worn
by Selina, as a token of remembrance
from a dear friend, now for
ever lost to her.
yy
On my first going to the school, the
strictest  commenced be
tvreen us.
“We have still Slept together;
‘‘ Rose at an instant; learn’d, play’d,
eat, together;
And wherefoe’er we went, like
juno’s Swans,
Still we went coupled and inseparable.


I
/
OF . 57
I now flatter myself this  will end but with our exillence.
About three years ago the remittances which had been before so regularly sent, entirely ceased. Mrs. gib fon carefully concealed this circumstance from the rest of the fchool Soon after this, on account of her increasing age and infirmities, Ihe declined that fatiguing way of life; and took a Small house in a village about
f
twenty miles from hence. T hither Ihe retired, with miss Courtney for her companion, and they have lived together since that time perfectly happy and contented. -- Judge then, hovy much the loss of this good v/oiuan will afliid my dear friend!
As soon as I had read her letter, and a little recovered myself, 1 card
5 lied
I
■ • I

! O =
(i 1
. t •
1 i!'
i!
II
i
i
I


II!!


p
II

|ht
n!
i’ll
ii
!l|h
!; 1
i!
i|u.
bf
iiii!
58  OF PR I END SHIT.
ried it to my mother. Ever awake to the impulses of Senlibility, which in h arise, not only from a delicacy of feeling blit from the mor solid motives of religion; Ihe readily joined with me in dropping a tear to the'memory of an old friend. I rejoice, my Julia, ’’ Said Ihe, ‘ ^ that you will now have an opportunity of convincing Selina of the sincerity of your ; and have now an asylum to offer her. I wilhgo with you myself to morrow> to bring her here, and we will.join our efforts to alleviate those diffreffes which at this time (he cannot but feel.” - — -
Oh! my
how thankfi^
ought I to be to Heaven for blessing me with parents so indulgent to all my wishes 1 — May my heart be ever grateful to them for the daily proofs they give me of affection; and
may
 . 59
may I, by a return of kind attentions. Smooth their passage through the vale of life. I have indulged in a recapitulation of pall Scenes, hill every C e but mine is closed in balmy deep.
V
How still and Solemn is this mid ’ night Scene! Good night, my Eliza. That your guardian angel may hover round your pillow, and protect you from every Itroke of adverse fortune,
Pfays, your % *
Julia Harcourt,
Lad.;
. r
• <
} 1! i I
I
1!
I •
III
I \
If
I!
iff
i II
M M
’ ■ i j 111
ijin
lid!
i.
P!
!
to ' M' •
b!
it
t
is
U
{
I
b
i i
1!
Mi!
'• i I
Isti >!
6o
 .
Lady Julia Harcourt in continuation.
I deferred sending you this letter hill I could give you the pleasing intelligence of Selina's being safely lodged under this hospitable roof.
My mother and myself went early yesterday morning for her; We found her in very low spirits, and much af fedfed at the sight of us; but my mother’s repeated alturances of  and protection, seemed rather to revive her. I hope a little time spent amongst friends that love her so much will en
V
tirely restore her. She is more lovely, more beautiful than ever. I am very desirous that you Should see her, as I am sure you^ill admire her. Her liberal education has had the best effect; and Ihe seems to have made the greatest
use'!([
'!([
  6l
use of those excellent inftrudions which have been given her by her good tiitoress. Tho’ beautiful in a very high degree, Ihe has not the lead tincture of affectation; her general behaviour is not So much to attracl the admiration of others, as to confer happiness on all around her. You will readily believe what a sincere satisfaction it is to me to have this friend constantly with me; to partake of all my amusements and entertainments. To
us who reside so constantly in the
/
country, she will indeed be a valuable acquisition.
My father received her with all the
r
affection of a parent; called her his Second Julia, and Said Ihe might affure herself, that as long as he lived, Ihe Should never be in want of a comfortable home; and in return he would
make





I

62  .
/
make one request to her, that ih.e would for the future endeavour to be cheerful and happy. — Selina dropped a tear of gratitude, but at that moment could not Speak.
•/
I am Summoned down flairs; our old neighbour, Lord Mordington, is come to dine with us, a blessing we do not often enjoy; and if he feels himself as choleric as he did the lafl; time he was here, I am of opinion he would be better at home He is expecting his fon from his travels every day; if he resembles his father in his difpoli tion, I pray heaven to keep him far from the presence of your
j ulla Harcourt.

V
t
LETTER.
 . 63
LETTER
VIII
Rev. Edward Seymour, to Henry
iirummondy Efa.
March 28*
THANK you, my dear friend, for your congratulations. They found me at Wansford, about an hour after I had taken polfeffion of my living, which, I believe, will prove full five hundred a year.
When I came to w^sford, I found the late redtor’s lady still in the houle; and, as I hate to wound i a feeling mind, and the tears produced by affliction are more than 1 can bear, I hesitated sometime, in what manner I
should!
!




{
II >

II
!ill
r

r
I
64

Ihoiild proceed. So as to give poor
Mrs. Morton notice of my arrival,
without at the Same time reminding
her of the loss (he had sustained. I
found, however, that report had been
busy ever since my arrival, in conveying
the news from house to house, till
it had arrived at that which I was so
afraid of dillreffing.
Whilst I sat at tea I received a message
from the lady, desiring to see me
0
I went immediately, and I think I
Shall be the better for the visit as long
as I live. Mrs. Mortonunfeigned
sorrow, mixed with such a cheerful
resignation, has imprelted itself so
deeply on my mind, that I Shall ever
respect her character; and only wilh,
that in my ministry, I may follow the
steps of that holy man Ihe now laments.
His death is univcrially regretted
He
 . 65
He might justly be called the father of the afflicted! To be in want, or Sorrow, were Sufficient recommendations to him. You will easily believe how much I have been delighted with this account of him. You have often rallied me on my Serious turn of mind. I have Studied human nature with Some degree of attention, and have had too often reason to regret the depraved State it'isnowin; you will allow me, therefore, to rejoice I have found one man, whose memory alone is Sufficient to raise the most delightful emotions.
tho’yoijt temper and dispoiition are both of a lively nature, yet I know you will pardon me for these serious reflections I will not however trefpass upon you, but proceed on my story. After having taken
pof
\
1
t \
i \
?. II
i?
• f
t.
111 ii:
:
h
LII
ih
Ih
4.
) •
Ml
il,
III
i

(, I!
ii f
M !{{ ■
!H i
: !i!
H
- * ‘
66  OF FRIENDSH IE.
poiteflion, I Supped with Mrs. Morton, and the Curate, whom she had obligingly invited. Mrs. Morton, told me that there was a house ready prepared for her in the village, to which she could remove the very next day. I begged her to continue where she was as much longer as was agreeable or convenient to herself; and to make her perfectly easy, agreed to lodge with Mr. watson, ( the curate) who Seems a modest well behaved man, and has a wife and family. At this place of residence I now am, and think I shall remain Some time, as the the life of a Solitary bachelor is to me the most uncomfortable Hate in the world.
i %
[ t
watson is a very agreeable companion, and his wife well informed;
his children too youn g to be troublesome,

i \
 . 67
Some, and old enough to be very entertaining; therefore, my friend, you must come and See me where I now am. I Shall not feel myself Satisfied till yon arrive; your friendihip has been the cordial that has given a relish to every Scene, and has Smoothed those hours when every other amusement Seemed to fail. I Shall expect you soon, for as your friendihip has been the comfort of all my pall years, it must make a large part of what is to come, or the change will not be for the b’etter.
I have been busy, preparing for Sunday; you know my fears are not few, least I Should labour in the Vineyard in vain. However, I will do my best; and what I am deficient in eloquence, I will endeavour to make up by example. I am pleased that fortune
has
t
1 t
II
II
II

i;
I

68  .
\
has placed me in a village, as here 1 Shall have it in my power to be of more real use, than in a more extensive situation. Had I laboured ever So hard to reform the world, my labour would have been but vanity and folly; but in a Small circle, a taper will send forth an agreeable ray of light: It is the fun alone that can Shed its benign influence on the whole globe.

I have Seen few of iny neighbours yet. The situation is delightful; and as the country had always more charms for me than a life of folly and noifcj you will not wonder that I Sgn myself your contented friend,
Edward Seymour.
LETTER
. t
I

 . 69
L E T T E R IX
Lath ^ulia Harcourt, to miss Darnley
Levlngjlon Abbey, April 2.
OU are So lazy, my dear Eliza, that I am obliged to continue writing without waiting for your answers; or I verily believe all inter course would cease between us. Could I hear that you were on the point of marriage, and busily employed in preparing bridal finery, I would try to forgive you; but dill to persist in old maid ifm, and live entirely by yourself, without even writing to your friends, is an insult not to be born. That love Should be the first subject of
; my pen this day, you must not wonder,

70
OF .
V «
der, for, love, almighty love I is to be the only thing particularly considered in this Iheet of paper. And that there can be no love without a lover, is very plain; therefore to him mufti direct your attention. But I will not hurry' you too precipitately into the gentleman’s acquaintance, you mull be introduced in proper form.
The fineness of the weather yes
day afternoon, tempted Selina and
\
myself, to ftrol into the garden. On our return we were informed that, Sir Robert Midford was in the drawing-room, a gentleman who has lately bought an ellate in this neighbourhood; and having forne time ago a slight acquaintance with my father, had availed. himseif of that circumstance, that he might enjoy a little sot

ciety for the short time he was to stay
in
t
y

 . 71
• «
in this part of the country. — We immediately, xik.t2i\\ young ladies, began to ‘hatter oiirselves he might be an agreeable man; and as beaux are not very common here, thought it would be the moll rational plan to join the company.
But how Shall I give you an idea of the hero, that our imaginations had formed so brilliant? he is very tall, and so thin, that without you have Seen the starved apothecary in Romeo and
Juliet, you cannot imagine Such a Ike'
%'
— His complexion is a bright beautiful olive, which, contrasted with the white powder in his nice peruke, has a Striking elfed. The whole call of his countenance, I have not the lead doubt, is fet at the glass every morning before he emerges \ and the mod extraordinary occasion in the world,
would
7^  .
would not tempt him to alter one
muscle.
His conversation is
as
formal as his person; and therefore Selina and I remained busily employed in making flowers, without attending to what was going forward. But this, as you shall hear in the sequel, turned to our advantage.
f i
r
t
\
1!
When he took his leave, my father very politely Set him to the hall, where he turned round, and with the utmost precision addressed him, “My Lord St. Clair, I have for Some time been making accurate observations on the female part of the creation, with a view to my future edablilhment in
life; my attention has hitherto been
0
fruitless, as 1 never have met with a woman I thought worthy to become the partner of my joys. ~this afternoon I have observed Something in
your
I ‘ t •
t
11
11
V
 .
7'*
your daughter, which leads me to think she is the kind oi companion I wilh for; Ihe has happily blended the polilli of a polite education, with the fteadiness of a country life; and if I can be so fortunate as to gain your approbation, I have not tlife lead doubt of making myself acceptable to tfie
4
young lady.^’
My father enjoys a joke against; poor me too well, to let this go pad him j he therefore begged by all means he
would Speak to me himself, as it was
*
his determination neyer to bias my mind in the lead degree; and requeded he would breakfad with us the npxt morning, when he would undertake to give him an opportunity to make his own address.
Vol. I
E
V
>

CV
74  .
You may fuppose what a very agreeable evening I had, in expe(5iation of So formidable a liege. This morning about ten the beau arrived. break faft is at bell but a formal meal, but this was worse than common; my father all the while enjoying himself so mhch, I was afraid he would have
scalded himself more than once with his
\
chocolate. — As soon as pofliblehe led out my mother, giving Selina a nod to follow them; but that I absolutely prevented, by fiezing so fall hold of her hand, that without fly had made a riot, she had no chance of escaping. The worthy Baronet however was determined that should not prevent his intention, for he instantly moved to a vacant seat by my fide; but looking full at me, 1 believe I looked chilling, and therefore he wisely considered that
"f
love had better not be the first subject.
He
 OF fltteirdship. 7.5
He alked me with great deliberation, if I was fond of literature. Literature,
Sir, ’
yes, Madam, I mean as you lead a retired life, you mull Spend a great part of your time in reading, and consequently must be fond of - it.’* ‘‘no, indeed. Sir, I am not at all fond of it; but I can read, and f do read. Sir, for I read the morning papers every day; and that for a lady, and give me leave to add a lady of quality, is doing a great deal.”
“I beg your pardon. Madam, then I presume you are fond of the more polite amusements of music and drawing.”
— “Yes, Sir, you are right, lam
as fond of polite amusements as any
; ^
body, but not music and drawing; I should be very foiry to sit Scratching paper with a pencil all day long, or to be drumming at my harpsichord to
E 2
get
t *
I
i
I
I t
i I
il.
.
i '
{
\ ^
I »
I'
hi
1:
j: ' •
Hi IV
‘ f *1
4
!!: i • « \
iii
lb;
n
1 ■

i i
!ij
II
if
I!
II
76  .
get the last lesson my master Sent me, perfecft, againll he came to hear me play it. If I am to have music, let it be at the Abbey; and then, there is Ipmething to please the eye as well as the ear. But the amusements I like best, are routs, balls, plays, masque radesl — Oh! how much I Should like to be out all night at a masquerade! to say everything I chose, and to hear everything the company chose to say to me, — I cannot suppose anything more charming!

s
I am sorry to find. Madam, that I have been a little deceived in your character— — you have been deceived, Sir, I am Sorry for it too, but give me leave to tell you, if you have been con veiling in this neighbourhood, it is no wonder you are deceived; 'for they are a fet of base, narrow !minded,
'malicious,
t
; I


7^ /
malicious people, and no doubt would tell you that I was a poor, mean fpi riied, pitiful creature, and could take ^ no pleasure in the joys of a town life. But allow me to Set you right. Sir, nobody could enjoy gaiety more than mysels; and if I was not kept here by restraint, I would live in a constant racket ‘.don’t mistake me. Madam,
I do not mean that any one has misre presented your charafler to me, but that from my own observation of your behaviour yesterday, I took you to be “meek, modell, ”
“Meek and modest!” interrupting him “and pray. Sir, has anything in my conduct this morning given you a right to alter your opinion? Do you mean to insinuate that I am passionate and impudent! That is an insult not
Far be it from me.
to be born.
E 3
Lady
II
k
I i
III
il!
. I
• i
l‘
.« 1. i
!1
il
U
: •

a
I!
HI

, i! LII
t.
Il
Mi
II
L!
ifi
ii=
II
Iii
It
ili
ilh
iml
lib
II. 1 ii


I I > i
f ^ 1 •
1' '
i!si I ■[

!
i!
I If
? r <
II
■. i
l‘i
I * * I «
'♦
‘lb
■yii
7s wrfath.of .
\
Lady Julia, to wilh to insult you; but
as we Seem, to misunderftand one
another entirely, and as the sabjea I
wished to have Spoken upon will be
now unnecelfary, I will, with your
leave break up the conference.

I
readily agreed to this proposal, and
the gentleman making a very fine
bow to us, withdrew; fully convinced,
that there is not one woman in the
world that has a grain of discre
Selina was quite shocked at my method
of treating lovers;, but I quieted
her conscience as well as I could, and
we joined my father and mother in the
garden, where I was obliged to inform 1 them of what had palled, to account
for the gentleman’s hasty departure.
My father laughed exceedingly, my
mother
<. I ’
o i ■
i: i • •
1! •
Tr \
l ■
 . 79
4
mother Ihook her head, and looked
«
a world of reproaches; all. that, however, I was obliged to bear, as I certainly deserved it. But depend upon it, however flighty I may be to the beaux, I am always steady in friendihip, and will ever remain.
Your afle(5lionatc

Julia Harcovri.

4
LETTER
-1
II
'; •
I h
u
‘ }
So  OF FRIRNPSHIP
LET TER
X
to the Rey.
Edward, Seymour,
jvejihury lodge, April 8.
Rejoice, my dear'edward, to hear
you are so well Satisfied with the
situation of your benefice. I will certainly
come and See you, as you say it
will be no inconvenience to the family
at whose houle you reside. I have no
objection to be the guest of a country
parson; their wives generally make
good puddings, and the husband is
often a cheerful companion.
I like the account you give me of the
late incumbent’s widow, and the reflections

i!!
 . 8l
i
tions thereunto belonging; but don’t let your enthufiasm for the memory of your predeceltor, carry you quite sofar as it once did an acquaintance of mine, who, on taking possession of a living in the style you have done, found the widow in the same predicament; and to prove to the world his admiration for the character of her firll husband, married the relict, who was as old as his mother, and without a Ihilling but a
4
small life annuity. She did him the honour to live many years, to convince him of her gratitude, and to give him an opportunity of every day “feeding the hungry and clothing the naked which offices he performed for her sometime beforejhe, or rather he was released: : which period he has
never dared to enter into another en
%
But perhaps was he to hear
of Dr. morton’s same, .ajpid his widow’s
. Sorrow L
1 I
n
i i
; i 1
'i

• I,
.\ I
■ 1 I
i ■ '
,
I
II
L!
* • i
ib
i‘ 1
b;
;
*: «
F •
hi' 1''
!: h
't!
»‘l ‘
‘I,
: i'
III
§2  or .
Sorrow, he might Hep forth as your rival, and her comforter, and the champion of all worthy divines departed this life..
I am in a better humour with my uncle than when I wrote last.. reason I believe is, his being in better humour with me; and Wellbury would cajiu the very devil. himself; he has So much of the milk of human kindness
j ■
in his compoiition> and is the properefl
*
person in the wprld. to live with,, his churlifli father..
I f :
IT,
Yesterday we dined at Lord St.. clair’s, who had waited on Lord Wellbury. the day after his arrival, and requested we might begood neigh -- bours — and “you my lord, ” Said he to my uncle, willi hope now enter into the Society of the neighbourhood, and
be
iii

Ij: !'
LI
iu'
 .
3
be as gay as the rest of us?
9}
CC
Not I,
indeed, I cannot visit. Sir, I have got the gout, and that is not an agreeable guest to carry abroad with one. be lides. Sir, your girl is a giggling girl, and I don’t likefuch; they don’t Suit an old man; they laugh at his infirmities, and ridicule his dress and his peculiarities; not considering they are far worse themselves. besides, I cannot
talk nonsense to ladies now.
»> i
But
the young men can, my lord, and I will take care to entertain you, and leave thejouths to chance.” — ‘‘well, st.dairj I will try this once, and if I don’t like this visit i’ll come no more;
I
mind that, I won’t be teased.” — Lord St. Clair acquiesced in this determination, and yesterday was the. day
fixed..
It;

il



> • '

s4  .
It is amazing to me, how all the people of this place yield to the peculiar dilpofition of this odd mortal, and take all his pettilhncfs in good part. What a time his poor wife mull have had, who, I am told, was extremely amiable; all gentleness and affability; and who is Hill sincerely lamented by her Son, who inherits her virtues, and is Said to be very like her in personas well as mind.
But where am I rambling? I meant to give you an account of our visit, which, till the moment I sat down to write has been the only subject I have cither talked of, or thought upon. Wonderful, you will say, that Harry Driimmond could dwell upon any one subject for twenty-four hours! But this is really the cafe; and I have an idea that I am beginning to grow
wise.
 .
O
wise. You will be very glad to lear it, I know, but, my friend, it is the charms of Lady Julia Harcourt that have for so long a time fixed my attention. Her gaiety, her wit, and her elegance, had almost quite obliterated every trace of poor Rofalia; who,
with the word matrimony in her hand,
1
palled by my imagination and restored me to myself, but not to tranquillity. How ridiculous are our juvenile attachments, and how much I lament the forming one that I fear Hands in the way of all my hopes and all my preferment. I have filled my paper so elfedlually, I believe, I mull be obliged to give you a fnetch of our visit another day; besides, we are going to ride out, in hopes! — Ye hopes of meeting Lady Julia, and her beautiful friend, Miss Courtney.
Adieu!
St
in

■J
1
86


Adieu! I am ever your’s* Let me hear from you soon. You know I like nothing So well as your letters, - — except your very self
4
Henry Drummond.
LETTER XI
9
Miss Darnle^, to Lady Julia Harcourt
i
jvansford koufey April 5,
YOU shall not a Second time, my
friend, chide me for being idle. I have received both your favours, which, are so, very unlike each other,
V
that had I not known your writing, I might easily. have mistaken you for a new correspondents
Your, '
1
 . 87
Your amiable Sympathy for miss courtney’s Sufferings Shows your character in the true light. Your flights of fancy exercised on poor Sir Robert, were fair, I think; as he was properly punished for supposing he had. penetration enough to see your character in couple of hours, when I Scarce understand it, who have studied you iocyears. You lay I am unsociable, and wilt neither visit you nor write; believe me I Should have infinite plea? Sure in doing, both...
I have had Mrs. Morton with me for Some days pall; Ihe is now gone to her own house, and this neighbourhood has got the acquisition of a very amiable young clergyman; he pleased both the grave and gay on Sunday. Unfortunately for me, I had a cold, and was, obliged to be confined at
home:
1 i
; 1
I t
. I
! I
i I
i
i i
LI
•»
’ r
il
1!
t;
! '

f
: i
ill
*• I
: I
U '
T
I »
1
!!
H

l



88
 .
home; but I had the pleasure of Seeing
him yesterday
The day being fine, I walked down
to inquire after Mrs. morton’s health,
in her new house; when I entered, fly
said“ “dear miss Darnley, I am rejoiced
you are come, as I expert Mr.
Seymour to tea, and 1 wish sincerely to
have you introduced to him, as I think
he is the man alone who can make
you happy.” I Smiled at the good old
lady’s earnefbness, but assured her I
m
could not Stay tea, as I found my cold
very indifferent; and as to any hap
ptiness Mr. Seymour could afford me
5
I was certain Ihe was mistaken, as I
had resolved never to alter my situation.

Whilst we were debating as ufual
this subject, the Servant announced
Mr
 . 89
Mr. Seymour. I confess I felt ashamed, though I knew not why. His address was polite, and my worthy friend introduced me with so many encomiums, that I moll heartily wished myself elsewhere. I know, Julia, your (uriofity to have a description of this gentleman will be great; had I your lively pen I might do him justice; but as it is, your own imagination must aflill me. — Mull I begin with his person?? doubt, as I Surely cannot judge of his mind in one afternoon, for Julia I did slay — out of mere cu riojlty.
He is above the middle lize, and ell made; has a dark complexion, with the finest eyes I ever Saw; they convey an exprefiion of goodness in every glance; his teeth are white and regular, and his tout mfetnhle just what
I
f
1
1
I
1" • i
I!
LI
l!‘
i
t
!h 1!
• '
u 1
i 1
{ :
r »
 .
1 would wish in a brother. The aeon versation was at first So very grave and languid, that I repented Several times that I had stayed; however, as we became better acquainted, it took a more animated turn, and when I looked at my watch I found nine clock was approaching fall. I had not ordered the coach, therefore was obliged to accept Mr. Seymour's offer of attending me home.
He declined going in with me, but begged I would allow him the honour of calling the next morning to inquire after my health. He came as I ex pe(5led, and sat a couple of hours. He willed much to be admitted a member of our reading Society, but I assured him it was impossible, as we had refused to admit the husbands of those ladies who were members, and he had
not
6
OF  91
; iot So good a right to expect indulgence; he Smiled and replied, though he had not the happinefe of being a husband at present, it was the first wilh of his heart to meet with a lady, who, with the requilites to make a matrimonial plan delightful, had the inclination to make him a husband. I told him he had better retain those ideas of the married life, but never attempt to realise them, as he would lose the ideal bliss perhaps in real misery. He begged I would allow him to point out to me the numberless comforts attending a connexion, where two hearts were united in the Soft bond of Sympathy and love. — ‘‘it would be giving yourself, Mr. Seymour, trouble, and be attended with little success, therefore, if you please we will call a new fubjesl! I am to have Some of my neighbours to tea and Supper this
evemn
5

1 I
’ii
I ((
't:
tl!
[
11
M 1

02
 .
evening, if you will join the party wc will endeavour to convince you it is poitible to be extremely happy, and yet not married.
But, my dear Julia, I am sure your patience mufl have Suffered; and as I have to dress to receive my friends, -1 will release you, only bespeak me a place in your selina^s heart. — I have some expedlation of going to London soon, as I expect a friend of my dear Mrs. scudamore’s will arrive in England, and when she comes I must see her. Write to me every moment you have to Spare, as everything you do, or say, is interesting to the heart of your
Eliza Darn lay.
 .
93
LETTER Xir
umrnond, Pfq. to Edward Sevmour.
pvejibury lodgey April IF
>
Write to you always with pleasure, my dear Seymour, but never with more than at this moment; because I never had So agreeable a Subject to expatiate upon. .Lady Julia is forever the burden of my song; neither mvft yon be surprised, or find fault, if I talk to you of nothing else. 1 mujl Speak of her to Somebody, and to
m
Weftbury I dare not, for fear of making him my rival; for though I hope for nothing but her friendihip, I feel all the anxieties and jealousies of a lover. ‘
Ocr
w I

e \ /
!:?
Is :
u.
Ill!
.iiih ■
bii:.

t
b; '■
LL i UI
h \
Ii.
rl
jiil!
■ b' I lii.b *
LI 'ii
il
iiiil!
■!
r '
• i •
im
jb 1
il !i 1 ihji. 1
M 1
I
if *
L •
j
.lill 11
U'
IP
lie '■
1 b I • I Ii: 1
I'M 1
III ' ^
ll •

lill
ib' ^
i!‘i:
It
<< 1 ■
• .11
i!b,
!i; : f ‘
rh ■

!!.■
t‘.
i’l'
!»1.
1* '
iil
lili
I) ti
II I

'hi
!!'
ih" 11 i
i ><
b
III
(I
iisi
: !i il
II
id
I..
^
ili:

iml! :; I •
u
LII
i..

94
 .
Our old lord behaved better than 1
expected on our first visit, tho’ not
quite To well as I could have willed.
But Lady Julia has since So effedtually
won his heart, that he is now quite
tame, and is never So happy as when
we are with the family. He could not
possibly take a more easy method of
pleasing us, forweftbury Seems quite
as ready as myself to indulge him upon
this head.

The first day w were at Lord St.

clair’s, after having sat a while, and
talked over the state of the weather (the
first subject in all English parties) politics
Succeeded, and Lord Mordington,
who is ever despairing, complained
heavily of the deplorable state of the
nation, and how near we were to a general
bankruptcy. Just at this moment,
Lady Julia, to whom I had literally
bedn
!!!ir.
ilil :
't •
! f
t!!'
Ill :
 OF FRI ENDSHIP. 95
been talking nonsense, happened to
laugh,
“There, my Lord, ’’ Said
my uncle, you See even the Serious state we are in at present, and the melancholy consequences likely to ensue, cannot for a moment check the risibility of your daughter.” “Why, Surely, my dear lord, you would not have me anticipate evils?” “Certainly, Madam, I would, — ’tisonly by living irt fear, we have any chance of avoiding danger; and take my advice, fair lady, and even in love affairs which are your politics, always think a man a Seducer ’till the ring is on your finger. there’s Weftbury himself, I would not trust him in these matters, tho’ 1 believe he is one of the bell of them”. — — — “Oh!” Said Lady Julia, laughing.
I believe he is a very tyrant.
>> ((
No,
madam, he is no tyrant, he is one of the very belt young men in the world,
and
LI

I f
ill
L
(!
L
>' 1
it
1 I
t ^
1.
I
II
\
‘ I '
I:
► •
n
H:
I •
II
II
: •
‘‘i

■ i «»‘
i;

i
LI! >
i i!
I
r
il
I. ■ 1
M
*
t <. »

96  or .
and I wish you had just just Such another
for a husband— — don’t choose he
should marry yet, So don’t you Seduce
in your turn.” ' I cry you mercy! my
lord, but I make no promises, So take
m
my hand and let us go down to dinner!”
which was at that moment announced,
and my testy uncle was blessed with
the fair hand of her ladyship to the
diningroom. But just on entering
the door, another cause of vexation
occurred, for the two fair friends
t
coming very near, the feathers in one
hat, and the .flowers in the othfer became
entangled, and lady St. Clair
was called to Set them at liberty.
Mordin
O
on the present fashions, on their ab
furdities, their inconveniences, and a
thousand &c’s. He told the ladies
how much more beautiful they would
have
 .
have looked drelsed in the mode their grandmothers followed, who wore pretty little fly caps, with long lappets and a handkerchief laid close to their bosoms. Lady Julia made no reply, but was very attentive to his description, and looked very arch, as if She thought more than met the card

The ladies sat longer than usliai after dinner, to my great joy, for not being a votary of Bacchus, I always lament their departure; and detell
the conversation that usually follows it,
^ \
vvtescbury and I Soon claimed the privilege of going to talk nonsense in the drawing-room, and left the old lords to settle the affairs of the nation.
Nothing could. be more animated
f
than the conversation of the ladies. Lady St. Clair is cheerful, well in
Vol. I
"• I
F
informed
) I
I
I!
II
l
lb
I I
}
t; '
ll)!
II
98  ,
formed, and desirous of feeing every one easy and happy in her presence; and Lady Julia! how can I describe the charms of her wit, or the lustre of her eyes? how artless and innocent, yet how gay and lively! and how pleasantly Ilie seems to sport with every subject.
Weftbury alked me on our road home, if I thought her handsome?
I protest, my Lord, I never once thought about her face; if (he is not foi have not discover’d one failing feature; and if She is, the beauties of her mind entirely eclipsed those, of
her person.
yy

A very pretty jesuitical
answer; but I perceive by it, that it is the tout enfemhle you admire. I think her very pleasant for an hour or two; but her Spirits are so good, that I have no idea they can always
remain
 .' 99
remain the same. miss Courtney Seems to me to have the more equal
temper
May be So, but Ihe is So grave, I am certain I hall never be better acquainted with her than I am at present.”
We have met these two friends almost every morning; having talked of riding, and finding it a favourite exercise of the ladies, '^ve Tpoke of the prettiefl; rides, and by that means found out those they most frequented; and by going acddentally that way, have ever been So fortunate as to
V
meet them, and we are now upon the most agreeable terms of
and familiarity.
Our visit was 'returned before the end of the week, but guess our Surprise, on handing the ladies out of
F 2
th

U f

I
ill
Mit
il
j
3
II
II
I!
It
I -
II
11
Iii
i.lm
Hi:
$
II
si;.

H’
m
M
: : i
id
lli!!
khi
pt'
iiv h
i‘ te
Hi
ill
ssli
I
E I
i
Jfi
mi
• L
Hi
I,
I bt
Hb’s
ti

Mi:
II
: p
I
Jhii
ifj]
51
llii
< I }.•
M rt
lu
ill:
iii
Mllj ■ 11!
L
. >
fi
LII
i'lh
iii[

ili
!;
i •'(
t' o
hti
w % j' •
■■'«?
•itb
iiifi!
Hth!
IMH
Mill
II b;
SQO ’ OF frtencshit
sthe carriage, to see Lady Julia drelted exactly in the style of her grand mo* there, as described by my unde. It was impossible the could disguise herself; but equally impossible to forbear laughing at the contrast between herself and Miss Courtney, who was perfectly elegant in the present tafle. Lord Mordington took it as the highest compliment, and has absolutely been in good-humour ever Since 5 and Lady Julia blested herself for having been the cause of it.
Adieu, I Shall write all night at this rate, would my paper but allow me; but I have only room left to subscribe myself.
Your very affedionate,
II Drummond.
• • '!r
II
 . loi
LETTER XIII
Rev, Edward Seymour.) to Henry Drummond, Esq.
jvamford, April 30.
Thank you, Drummpnd, for your caution, it was friendly, and I hope I Shall profit by it; but poor Mrs. Morton is too sincere a mourner, for me to have pleasure even in your trifling on this subject.
I have been now a, month in my parish, and therefore can Speak with some degree of certainty of the comforts I experience, and the politeness of the neighbourhood.
F 3
There
102  .
t
* I
P
ini
LI
There are only three families in the
besides that I am with. The I Shall mention is a Mr. har who' has his estate of about
grave,
£.400 a year in his own hands, and
0
therefore may be called a gentle
man farmer
; he has an agreeable wife and several children. The other two are Mrs. moreton’s, and a particular friend of her’s, a maiden lady, who lives by herself upon a Small fortune, and is blelfed with the love and admiration of all who know her, for her many amiable qualifications.
About a quarter of a mile from the town Hands a neat modern built house, whose owmer’s name is miss Darnley., It would be a difficult talk to give you a description of this charming young lady. She is her own mistress, and has been so for four
or
 . i03
or five years; and tho’ fly has had a variety of lovers, (he has refused them all, and steadily declares she will never marry. She is a blessing to the whole neighbourhood; fly relieves the wants of the poor, and comforts the afflicted; wherever Hie appears the prayers of all beholders follow her, and yet Ilie is unaffeded, polite, and affable.
After this description you will begin to feel some apprehensions for your friend; in truth, Drummond, had I the lead hope to build upon, I Should confess myself in love. I know you will laugh at me, but do your word, the amiable Eliza has' convinced me I had a heart to lose. I have Spent much time with her since I came, and always met with a polite reception, but it is that of a person who is never

f4
to
I
i)) >

!'j
1i

0
I
in
104  OF friendshlpv
to be more than a visitor. It is with Some degree of restraint - keeping a constant guard over all any words and aflions, that I conceal my attachment to her.
I was reading prayers the other morning, and She came into church after 1 had begun and would you believe it, Drummond, I made a full pause, and. am sure for a minute could not find out the place where I should be. I felt so ashamed at this weakness, which appeared to me much beneath a man of my profession, that I never call my eye towards her the remainder of the Service.
When
I went into the vestry till the congre ation were all gone; you will believe I felt a little conscious. miss
 , i05
darnley’s Servant came to me, and Said his miftress wanted to Speak to me. I hastened to her; flic begged my pardon for Sending for me, but She had a petition to present; it was from my gardener, whomd had discharged for ill behaviour. • She Said Ihe could plead little in his' favour, ' but that he had a wife and
y •
large family who would be destitute. The man himself had promised to be
4
have better if i would forgive him.
You may be lure'i indailtly complied with her request, and handing her to hercarriagev which was waiting, I added, I Should have been extremely happy, if She would as readily have granted my'firft request • it been in her power, Ihe faidj I should not have repeated it twice. •

Xou
i06  ,
*
You may remember the request!! you was to be admitted a member of a. reading Society, which is held at her house once, a week. The
I
books are history. and poetry, and oc? casionally. a French novel, but they arc never allowed one in English. No, bad plan this to join. improvement with entertainment.
I had a great desire to <makd one of so agreeable party, and miss Darnley is the only member who objects to this. proposal., I told her if file would admit me I would read aloud to them at all times, and never make my appearance till tea, and withdraw before Supper. She Smiled at my proposition, and Said, if it were in their power to allow me to become a member, I. Should not be excluded at any hour; and that fly
had
 . i07
had no doubt but I Should be an agreeable addition to their Society.
I Stepped after her into the coach, and as I fancied She began to relent, I continued to urge her; Are you, ' my dear miss Darnley, determined equally to refill all importunities from the gentlemen? You can be happy, it Seems, without their Society; but charity Should induce, you to extend your ideas a little beyond self,
rand
■ relied: how much you maku them Suffer.’’ Flattery will not do, Mr. Seymour; I do not boast of any power over your Sex; neither do I wish for any.”.
By this time we had reached wans ford house, when, as the coach drove to the door, (he Said, I Sancy you are not to be told, this is the day on
which
IO W R E A THOUGH F F RT E N DSH 2^


%
■which we hold our meeting,, whiclii mull be, my apology for not requeflin
t
your company. Before I had time to reply, the Servant told her there were. some. Ladies and Gentlemen come to dine with her from the next market town; she then Laidturning to me,
I will entreat in my turn that I may be favoured with your company, as L * shall send an excuse to my friends att Wansfordd^ '
L accepted the invitation, andj hayed till eleven o’clock, when L walked home ina very rainy night,; :,
but I felt it not; Eliza engaged every
thought and every feeling.. I am at present however far from well, the .^ ' agitation of my mind, indispoiition I cannot Shake off, renders me unfit for any company. II have not left my room today, and;
thi&
to an

Lf
w. R E A T IT o F F RI ENDS H I P.
ro
this letter has been written at Several
(
intervals..
r
4.
A violent headache obliges me now to lay down my>pen. Let me hear from yon 1 Soon. You know how much I admire Wellburyb character.. kt him often be the subject: s’of your pen and sometimes your :
ia. If you are iiv.> love,. you. de, krve the pity of your
ekivard Seymour. -.

^
LET

no  .
LETTER XIV
Henry Prwmmond, Esq. to the Rev.
Edward Seymour
Wejibury lodgei May 4,
ttjt is a folly to be wise at all
of my
times.
This
IS one
maxinis, and a very favourite one too; it must therefore be my exciise for the joke about the widow, which I foe you did not relish: But I hope you
ixie justice to allow, that

will do
thom caji {ometimes jejj I can also feel. So far, so good, — and now to that fubje(fl which is tee fumtaum
s.
bonum of life; the ruling principle in. my breast, I freely confess, and it
Seems

 . Ill
Seems to have taken pretty fast hold
%
of youks.
I heartily wish you success with your fair insensible;; are a handsome fellow, and have such a winning address, (as my old Aunt used to tell you,) that I don’t thinl you need despair. You do want a littlo of my confidence to be. Sure, but perhaps a real passion may inspire you with that; only r beg you wont fall sick, for I have no idea how a woman can like. 2if>uny lover.,
Mercy on me! here have I writtea almost: a, whole fide of paper, and don’t see the word Julia in any one line; yet that, is a word that, arrests my eyes, my ears, my heart, and my, understanding, if. ever so faintly ex =
Certainly fh‘e is, the .mod
charmin


l
ir
112  .
charming woman in the world. We carry on a very considerable flirtation, Kfi in jefi, and only to plague that coxcomb Selwin, who is at the Abbey, and is her relation it Seems, and who, I believe, fancies himself in love, but he mistakes the objebl.. I could let him into thb Secret, would he consult me, and tell him at once, that the object; of attention is his own sweet yry,; and not .his. incomparablej cousin..

he loves Show and parade, and i as her fortune will be large, no wonder it should attract so. frivolous a i mind as his.. Now I ’declare .to you,,
her withouta her heart,,
that I
farthing,, could I
gam
(that inestimable treasure) and were I at liberty and free to choose. Alas! that, juvenile indiscretion! how close
It
 . II
it Hicks; and how perpetually does it present itself, and damp my happiest moment!
I dare say Lady Julia muff think me a strange mortal; for when I am in my highest spirits, when I am gazing at her with rapture, this horrid thought, like a gorgons head,,
comes and turns me into stone. I sit
%
for some moments insenfible to every
; hill a kind word from her roiises and brings me back to life, and, (whilst I can banilli this phan
to bliss, which £hc only can befiow.
I believe we did not profess to be lovers when I wrote to you last, but as I love talking, I will tell you the prelude to it. You will Say I write like a. boarding school mil's to her confi ^

w
II
ih
; ✓
r
i!
114  .
dant; but whether you read or not,
I mull write on. You know I always
follow the impulse of the moment;
no great wisdom this I own, but that
is a qualification of which I cannot
boast! but you may teach it me if
you can, it may perhaps Save me Some
heart aches, and the Sooner you Set
about it the better.
We were sitting one morning in
o o
Lady julia’s dressing room, the usual
party quarree, miss Courtney, Lady
Julia, Weftbury, and myself; the Subject
was love, and each had given a
description of the sort of nymph or
swain mofl approved, And what
sort of a mortal is doomed to wear
your chains. Lady Julia?

‘why,
Something out of the common track,
I affure you. He mull not be a cie
fpairing lover, but in general gay and
airy;
L
 . 11^
airy; never LI gh in my presence but by mere accident; never talk of dyings because if I really liked him it would be cruel; and if I did not, I should
4
not care a firaw whether he lived or died. Then he mull not be too attentive, or deprive me of the use of my limbs by anticipating my very
wishes. I would not have him come
#
the length of a room, for inllance, to take up my fciltars; nor run against: me out of politeness, when I rise to ring the bell. Not to fondle and tease my dog out of affection to its millress. Then I would not have him come So near as to tread upon my apron, for I hate dirt. He must not continually tell me that I am as beautiful as an angel, because, as I look in the glass every time I come near
am quite as sensible of that as himself, He must Sometimes con
one, I
ti

V

Il
tradid me, which, if we often cor
verse will be iiecessaryj Rs I boast of
no infallibility of judgement; and I
should hate Servility in a man who
professed himself dehroiis of pieasing
me. These are a few traits of the sort
of lover I Should like.
‘‘ Ah! could I but find,,
** I care not for riches
VA
man to my mind !’*
ti
But his person still remains to
be drawn! I am mighty indifferent
about that, only I Should dioofehim
to walk ered; to have two eyes, and
those dark and expressive; and his
teeth ^ven and white; and as to the
rest, Selina, you may finilhthe picture
if you please
52
^ Not I, indeed, *'* and She looked
at her with an archness I thought her
Lnsapable of,
\yhich brought the
\
wrtath OF .
n;
<1
colour into
julia’s face; and
of which she seemed so conscious, that fhedidnotlook up forfome moments.'
The Silence was at last broke by your humble Servant, ^ I declare to you, Lady Julia, I believe I could accommodate myself to the iketch you have drawn, would you but take me upon trial \ and if in a fortnight 1 don’t prove quite to your wish, discard me as not worth farther pains. As to person I cannot be a judge myself, whether I am quite as you wish or not, I have tivo eyes ’tis true, but whether expressive or not, you, ladies, mull determine, and love alone can add that grace.”
Take him at his word, Lady Julia, Said Wellbury, he is an odd mortal, and may afford you Some entertainment;
II
I; i t
i i
L
J I
I I
t I
i! k
I
:
I
Il
tertainment; behdcs, it will be chaw

rity to give him Some employment.”
‘ I vow I donh know but 1 may ac
cept of him, it will'be convenient
enough at this j undure, when Selwyn
is coming with a fixed design of Heal
ing my heart; but take notice his all
in jest, for I would not be rea/iy in
love for a thousand worlds.
<(
Agreed,
my fair enfiaver, and now take no
tice, miss Courtney, that Lady Julia
from this moment allows me to make
love to her whenever I am in the hu
rnour.
»
c6
No, no, good Sir, only
when I am in the mood.
yy

Very
Weil, so be it; but observe, I begin
from this moment, for there lie your
feififars, and there they must lie, I
dare not take them up for the world.”
\
“Very docile, indeed, I really have
some hopes of you from this specimen;

/
OF  llg
men; but if you please, as I am busy netting, you miy give me them for this once, and you may also ring the bell, as I want Some fiik, and am too idle to rise my Seif ” I flew to the bell, and rung Such a peal that in a few moments came Lady St. Clair; bless me, Julia, I was afraid that you were ill by the vehemence with which you
’ Oh, no, ma’am, it was only Mr. drummond’s awkward way of doing it; he is Such an impetuous creature, and so absent he never knows what he is about.” A good hint for me. I made my peace with the old lady, promising not to alarm her again.
rung?
Soon after this conversation we took our leave, and arrived at home two minutes and a half too late for dinner; our old lord’s patience was quite
exhaufteds
;
i:
I
I
I
. I 1

I i!
120  OR .
exhausted, and we Spent the rest of the day, ah! how unlike the morning.

In a few days there is to be a grand gala at the Abbey; his my fair one’s birthday, and we are all to put on our gayest attire. After this festival you Shall hear from me, perhaps, see
N
me, if I can.perfuade myself to leave this little Syren.
/
S'
your’s ever.
II drummoni
LETTER
\.
.. ■
 OF FR L end'shl'p. 121
\
LETTER XV

. \
ifiy Julia Ear court, to Miss
Lvingjion ahley^ May 4.
AM exceedingly rejoiced, my dear Eliza, to find that you have got Such an, agreeable addition to your Society, in the person of your ciericcil beau. I am quite of Mrs. morton’s opinion, that you would make an ex
X
cellent wife for the parson of the parish and to tell you the truth, I put So little faith in vows of a single life, made at six and twenty, that I am not without hope, that either he or Some other more fortunate Swain, may yet tempt you to light the torch of Hymen
Voh I.
G
♦ \
1
I '
!;

• II
I i
it
) i
, *
• i
i!
122  OT frlenr)sh!p*
I am a little alarmed lest your Lon,
don journey diould interfere with a
scheme we have of bringing you here
againll the tenth of this month. It
is, you may recolieift, my hlrth daj^
and as on that day I have the honour
oidifc
y
is determined to have Some very gaudy
doings. I should think it would be So
great a mortification to him that I

. would be glad to pafs it over in
silence;; he is very good, and
thankfully accepts of me in the place
of a better.
You mufl conie, Eliza, if you can
with any convenience to yourself; for
we are not only to have as much
company as our house will hold, but
we have made interest with our neigh
hours to fill their houses also. Therefore

Wk E ATH OF FRIEND SH I P *
11$
Sore, upon the whole, I am asraid our
V '
will be more numerous
than agreekble.
A great inducerherit
you will Say, to persuadeyou to make one of the party. But at lead it will have variety to recommend ity and that is one .of the greatest requisites '6f human hkppinessi,
My Father and Selink have been busily employed for Some days pad, in contriving embeliidiments for this Superb entertainment. The avenue to the house is to be elegantly illuminated with coloured lamps; the band is to be concealed in the Small parlour, that when you enter the hall,, sounds divine may break upon the ear. The company are to be introduced into the drawing-room, where they mud remain peaceably till after tea; then, all that choose to dance; are to


124  .
go into the long room, which, by tbc way is entirely new painted and fitted up on the occasmn. Very handsome lustres are already arrived from town, and cut glass girandoles are to be placed on brackets quite around the room; So that I suppose when you enter, the blaze of light will exceed the Sun in its meridian Splendour.
1
In this place, I am Sorry to inform you, my troubles are to begin; for it is my father’s will and pleasure, that 1 Should' ' the ball, by dancing the first minuet with any kind Soul who will do me the favour to ask me. I am likewise to hand the last couple in the first dance, two very agreeable circumstances you must allow.
\
The
\
 . i25
The room adjoining is to be finished in a very elegant style, for refreshments;; that I can as yet give you no account of, for my father and Selina have undertaken the whole of that work themselves, and we are not even to see it till it is quite completed.
At eleven o’clock the Supper room is to be opened; the conducting of
that part of the entertainment is to
/
rest upon my mother; you will agree with me that it cannot be in better hands. Two of the best vocal performers are to be procured from the opera-house; their singing, and the many Smart things we flatter ourselves that our partners will say to us, will induce us no doubt, to sit a tolerable time to refresh ourselves, after the fatigues of the evening. After this it
G 3
will


i
: }
\ i
[ i
126'  OF. FRIRNDSHIB,,
will be a matter of choice, and everybody, left to follow their own inclinations. There will be card tables in. the drawins; room, for the amufenient
•< > * A 3* X
of the grave part, of' the cornpany. •
Were the folly, to end here I flionld; not be So much distressed, but at twelve

.next day, a beakfaft is p be prepared in the temple, which is to be accompanied
with more Smart things than I
/
can take the pains to tell you. The 'company.whicn the night before quietly toob, their departurei, are all to be recalled'; and as it is to be a fine Spring morning, every firing 7vill wear a cheerful aspedt. At two a^ ca^dinner.
vt
not an elegant./one, is to be prepared for the tenants, their wives, c. which will end with a ball at nierht as
'* - * • w V A
lisuiii.*'


 . i27
If all I have Said on this fiibje<5i: will
not tempt you, my friend, to come and join our party, I can only Say you have no curiosity;; I am very doubtful whether my father will ever think so well of you again. But if things should not go off with as much eclat as he expects, how much will he be disappointed.
I have written a long letter, without once telling you that the week before last we were favoured wit h a visit from old Don Cholerici alias, the Earl of Mordington, and his Ion, and Mr. Drummond, his nephew, who is at present on a visit to him. Lord west burr y is an exact contrail to his father
f
in everything. That is the inpft Severe thing you ever heard me say of Lord Mordington in your life, and yet I Seldom Spare him; but his*fon is the
o 4
moil
128  OF PRIENDSHIP
moil accomplhhed, agreeable, sensible cavalier I ever met with. He is extremely handsome, has fine dark eyes that Seem to penetrate your very Soul; it wouldbe impofiible to utter a falsehood and look at him at the Same time: his address is easy, his manners finished and polite; in short, it is not in my power to give you an idea what he is; but I think the best way will be for you to come and convince yourself. You have yet to make an ac quaintmce 'with our Selina too, and you don't know how great a pleasure you are depriving yourself of by not knowing her.
Mr. Drummond is quite handsome enough for a man, though he cannot be compared with his cousin; has beautiful teeth; and Such an agreeable keenness in his looks, joined to So
large
 . i29
■
large a Iliare of vivacitj^ that it Seems, if it were agreeable to him, he could at one glance hit off the ridiculous part of the whole company. I wonder how his uncle and he remain upon any terms; we have Spent Some very pleasant days in their company, and are already become very good friends. We flatter ourselves they will be a great acquisition to our approaching gala. ■ ' '
Adieu, my dear girl, let me Soon have the Satisfaction of feeing you here, and you will greatly oblige your affectionate .^
Harcourt,
G
: y
•LETTER
12-0 WR.EA.TH.40F
LEX T E R. XVL
Mrs. seudaoiore.) p Miss darnuy.
madmsy February 2»
R. and Mrs. dennison are. arrived from Cuddalore,. they, leave India in a few days..,., and in a ■ few months, will I hope, beheld; the. white cliffs of Albion.
Eleanor will See you, my dear friend^’ as I commission her to present you; with this letter. She wilh give you a full account of your Emily, her looks, her words, her very thoughts; Show ill tell you how eontinually you are the subject of her conversation, and.
what

II
what large poffellions you have in her heart. How heartily Ilie longs to see the clouded Skies of Britain, and how weary Iheis of the perpetual Sun ihine of the East: : She will also tell you, that her discontent does not appear, offends no one, and that you and herself alone are the foie confidants of her thoughts on this. sub jed.
I mention this left tu Should think I am, grown peevish and fretful. It is necessary the mind Should have Some faithful friend' to whom it can unbosom all, its cares and.anxieties; and to whom can 1 so properly make my complaints as to you, who have, ever been indulgent to my weakness, and will forgive the frailties and follies of' a heart you may command. I am sen fible were I but to hinf thefe things to
/
Mr


J^Z  Q, F FRIEN.DSHIF.
Mr. Scudamore, we Should be on Ihin, board in a month’s time;, as his whole pleasure.is in contributing to my ease and happiness. I determine therefore to wait patiently, for. the time be, fixes, as I a.m. certain he is not, more attach
r
ed to .this place than myself; and it will, not.b.e delayed a moment after the proper, time...
My friend has brought with her a sweet little girl,, whom She doatsupon, and who seems to have entirely cemented two, hearts formed for each other, and. who have metin. the moll. Singular manner. Fi-om this we may. learn the truth of the precept Jo often, enforced, by our good Dr., Morton,. ‘that there is no situation in life, however distressing, in. which hope, may, not be indulged, and despair banished.” That benificent being, who
sees
if
 .

Sees all our a6tions, and judges every’
thought, can turn the most untoward
\
appearances of fortune into the means of producing the most lasting happi ness. Eleanor is Sincerely sensible of this, and the little adverlity she experienced has made her in the midii of all her gaiety and grandeur,, most truly pious and humble..
I am certain you will be. pleased with her; (he is very desirous of your acquaintance, and bids me say how much Ihe will think herself honoured by your notice; and if not for herself alone, yet for the love she bears our friend, fly hopes you will allow her to cultivate your . She is just returned from paying her vists, and as we have, not much time to spend together, and it may be long before
we meet again, I am sure you. will ex
»

t3'4  OF friendshtpi
i
cuse my leaving this Scrawl to attend to my guests, and 1 will, conclude it perhaps tomorrow morning
i
\
I again resume my pen, my dear Eliza, to beg your acceptance of a ■ few trifles, the produce and manufacture of this country; everything, but the fliawl, you could get better and, more elegant in London, but they would not then, I know, in yo»r opinion, be of the same value; and you will give them a place upon your.
I
cabinet, for thcdonor’s sake.
I have just parted with Mr. and Mr,
Den nison, who are retired to rest for the last night, under this roof;. I snatch a moment, whilst Lionel is in
his. drefling room,, to inform you of
a

EATH @'F fr I EN dship.
^35
Aegacy Mrs. dennison"'has lest me. The circumstance is So Singular that I cannot help makings you aequaintecf.
with, it.
I
She came to me. this morning, her eyes all Swimming'in tears, and told me She was going to put my friendihip to the test, by a request She had to make, and which to be refused woumi make her miserable. “I have willied to Speak to you on this subject every hbur fincel have been in Madras, but i; never till this moment could take courage to alk, So unreasonable a favour; but 1 know the pleasure you take in Serving; the wretched, and you have it now in your power to make the. widow’s heart ling for joy.” ’
Tell me this • momenty L replied, what is this, vail request you make
and
5
136
 .
and not delay to enable me to deseree
’ have every
So high a character.
reason to suppose that I can alk nothing you will resuse, and I hasten to make you acquainted with the Subject osmy embassy.”
^^•one of my women attendants is of so very Superior a nature to all we meet with here, that I lament much the impolfibily of making her a partner in my voyage. Mr. Dennifon does not choose I should carry more than
s
one woman along with me, which of course must be the nurse of my infant. But I leave with regret an amiable woman, who has been the Sport of fortune; and whose fondness and attachment to me, and gratitude for my attention to her has quite gained my heart. I will bring her, with your
leave, •
 . i37
leave, to let you See the legacy I wish to bequeath.’^
Let me, I Said, Step a moment into scudamore’s Study, as I do nothing without his approbation; and though I am certain of his acquiesding in everything where human happi ness is the object; I would not rob him of the merit, or of the pleasure of one good action.”
In a moment I was by his fide, my story Soon told, and the desire immediately complied with. I returned to Eleanor, who waited, I Saw, in a little fufpense, which my countenance presently dissipated; and She went to Seek, her favourite. She Stayed longer than I expected, and returned overwhelmed with affliction, leading by the hand a woman, not young, but of a most in(
(

■ 1
ijb'  '.
tarelling figure, tall and finely made.
with an air of majestic diflress; her
complexion So like an European, that
I was quite struck, and had Ihe not
worn, the eastern habit, I should have
considered her as my countrywoman.
It was Sometime before any of us
broke silence, when Mrs. Dennifon5,
wiping away her tears and prefentiiig
the hand of her friend to me, addrelfed
herself to her, and Said I leave you,
my dear Orixana, to one much more
capable of Ibothing your afflidlions

than myfelfit is not in my power to
take you along with me, if it were, we
would never have separated; but in
resigning you to Mrs. Scudamore, I
am Sensible I promote your happiness
and I give to her an attendant who is
faithful and will make a grateful return
to the h>indn, efs, which, on my accounts

 OF FRI ENDSHIP. i39,
C ount, I know She will receive. Your grief, tho’ flattering to me, is an injury to yourself; and it is my lt(fl request that you endeavour to get the better of i, and exert yourself to prove to my friend the: value of the gift which, I
bellow d"
I yet held the hand of the Sorrowful Orixana, who, pale and fenrelesa,. sunk fainting into the arms of poor Eleanor. The female Servants we called to assist us, presently cohveyedi her to a sopha, where, after Some time, She was rellored to herself, but not to, happiness, and what will be the consequence of this melancholy parting I know not; but I fear much for my new acquaintance, whose heart Seems io poftels_ a fatal sensibility.

140  .
Adieu, I have not a moment more
to call my own, and you m\ld take
for granted, all you imagine 1 would
wilh to say, and all you would > d elire to
hear of your’s,
Emily Scudamore,
A *
LETTER XVII
Liidj Julia Harcourt, to Miss Darnky,
May
S the day approaches, and there
is no account from you, my dear
Eliza, I begin to be apprehensive lest
you Should either have taken your departure
to town before the receipt of
mv
4
* i

\
 . II
mv lafl letter, or at least have deter mined in your own mind, not to make
one in the frolic at Livingllon.
I
believe you are right, for I don’t think a birthday the time to enjoy the Society of one’s friends; it is all hurry and confusion, without one comfortable moment.
A large part of our visitors are already arrived. Lord and Lady Barton and their fair daughter, Lady Charlotte, came yesterday. You will Scarce credit me, nhen I tell you, that I think Lady Charlotte increased in aise Elation since I Saw her lad. You always
9
thought her the veryeffence of bon-ton, but 1 have now the pleasure to inform you that she is indeed the qnintejfence of everything that is great in that art.
“Oh, Heavens! Lady Julia, ” Said she to me, “how can you bear the
in
id  OF FR I endshi!’.
insupportable idea of being made a
%
t^'iiblic Speflacle to the whole country;
cease to be an
thing would
every
amusement to me that the canaille were to partake with me. I am astonished, my dear, how you can indulge your father in So ridiculous a Scheme; be lidcs, you might as well give a celti ficate of } cur age to every Soul in the neighbourhood; all the horrid crea tures will be able to Say, it is just So fnany’years since i.ady Julia Harcouit was one and twenty.’’ “Very true Lady Charlotte, ” Said I, “and yet that is an idea that never presented itself to ihe before; tbo’ I perfectly remember your father giving a great entertainment in 'Town, about four years ago, when your Ladyftiip arrived at the Same time of life.”
She

 . 145
She altured me I was mistaken with regard to dates, but however it had the desired effect; of lilencing her, at leall for that time, as to birth days. Wehave likewise got the addition of a beau in the house, Mr. Selwyn, a distant relation of my mother’s. He is about lix and' twenty, a yery genteel agreeable man; Selina and myself were half inclined to fall in love with him when he firll came, but he had Hot been two hours in company till we discovered his character to be so wonderfully impetuous that there is no venturing to contradict him; and in
an argument ( by the by, he is Scarce
«
ever out of one) he Supports his Opinion so strenuously, ’and with so much warmth, that he really alarms the flout ell of us.
Lady
144-  .
Lady Charlotte cannot endure his noise, it is absolutely more than her nerves are equal to, to Spend an hour in his company. ‘‘ Would you had never com e, Mr.selwyn, exclaims fly in the mod pitious style, or I had been fortunate enough to have paid my visit
here at another feason.

All Ih
e
can Say gives him no disturbance, for he treats the poor lady as if She had not common understanding.
He Spent a great part of last winter at Paris, and lodged in the Same house with Mr. Drummond, therefore mv father has Sent to request .his company with my Lord weflbury’s to tea and supper this evening. I think I hear their carriage, and I honestly confess 'it is a talk greater than I can impose upon myself, to sit writing here, even to you, Eliza, when I know those
gentlemen
 OF frienoshl’t. I
gentlemen are below flairs; I will, if I can, find an opportunity to letter to morrow^
Adieii.
Fhurjdny Morning, May t dijj
We Spent a charming evening yes tcrday. Had you seen Lord well bury, without his father to torntent him, you would have befen quite delighted with him; So polite and attentive in his behaviour to everybody. When he converses, it is with Such a manly fteadiness, he delivers his Sentiments with So much sense, and with cfut one grain of alfedation, that he claims the attention and approbatic'il of all lil hearers. When he Speaks to Selina he is particularly pleasihg; he
Vol. 1
rl
146  .
addresses her with So much softness in his manner, and waits for her replies with Such a delight in his countenance, that I am very Sure he mull admire her. Indeed, who ever Saw her that did not admire her? But I am willing to think he feels a particular alfedion for her; that is an idea I dare not fugged; to any creature breathing but yourself.
We "were very much diverted with Drummond and Selwyn; the one will no more brook contiadidion than the other; but Drummond has a peculiar archness in his manner, which gives him greatly the advantage, for he appears all the time to be ridiculing ill nature, and laughing at the follies of mankind.
I
 .
147
I must give you a description of an
odd group that came this morning.
^ %
We received a card from Mrs. Moore(
( if you recolle6l we visited the lad time you were here) to say she had a family from London staying with her, and fly would, if convenient, bring them with her. My father Sent an answer, to beg their company; and, as they lived at Some distance, re quelled they might come to dinner, which was without hesitation complied with, and this morning accord
4
ingly they came.

Mr. Moore entered first, and intro ducedthe lady, who is a little fat figure, dressed in a white lutefiring gown, and, as if she was determined her heifdu:
o
should Save her nothing in the article of Silk, it is made to Sweep gracefully behind her at lead twice her length
H 2
V
148  OP

upon the floor. She has a most elegant ^vig made with fine drop curls, ’ that hang down to the bottom of her back; and a Small chip hat Set on one Side of her head, with a profusion of white feathers and yellow ribbons; a broad yellow fall tied round her waist, and an enormous mofegay of artificial flowers; a fan, open and Spread before her in her hand. I shall never forget her first: •entre. She was followed by a tall thin 'daughter, dressed in a Superb painted tiffany, who had fiiriduy complied with the present fashion of looking as Small as possible; her brother r, ext appeared, as Smart a city beau as ever you Saw; his shoes tied in the best style, and his hair made up in all the nicety of French tafle.
I
The master of this family was the
ad of this elegant group, a little ffiff
man
 . i49
1
man in a brown bob, a fall Suit of Snuff coloured clothes, a pair of blue worsted stockings, and a pair of Small buckles, that had, I believe, been bought in the reign of (een Anne. As Soon ashe had Seated himself, he accosted my father, ‘‘you live very pleasantly here, my Lord; charming house, elegant gardens, and extensive pleasure grounds; just the way a man would wilh to live that has no buiiness to mind. A country life is the only life for happiness, my i^ord; I have got a country house, my wife and daughter are very fond of it, but my fon and I have other bulinefs; • but we go every night, except Saturday; I will tell you why we never go on Saturday, my Lord, — Some people make Saturday afternoon a holiday, others receive their money for their week’s labouiv and so get drunk; foi drink there k
H %
more:
iso
more danger oijire on Saturday, than
on any other day of the week — that i
IS
the reason we Hay in town to watch; for as I alwa)’s Say to'jacky, mhid the shop and thejjjop zvill mindy ou. bufi ness well attended will turn to profit; and indeed he is a very good boy and
minds w hat I Say to him, and that is
« »
the way to become a great man, and enjoy himself when he grows rich, as you do, my Imrd, and never to be proud. Pride is a bad thing; 1 never
]; new what pride was; I have the lame pleasiire in Seeing my friends when i am behind the counter in my canvass ileeves, as I have at one of my wife’s routs. Never let a man be ashamed of his profefiion, my Lord, that is one of my maxims, and a very good one it is; experience shows it; my profefiion ha' done imuch for me, anci I was never ashamed of it in my
life.
 .
15^
/
iise. Wherever. I am known, I am known for an honest; man, and that is a meat chara6ter> as the world soes,
O O '
more than all men of quality
can Say. I beg mur pardon, I mean no reflection' upon you; everybody Speaks well of your Lordship, I am fure.’^
I thought the young lady Seemed a little distressed at the volubility of her father’s tongue, and therefore, like a good christian, I was willing to relieve her, and took a seat next her. I a Iked her if She was fond of dancing, as I hoped we Should be able to have a very good dance this evening, “Oh, yes, ma’am, I am extremely fond of dancing; but I get a vail deal of it, for we have private bails very often, and my mama and I make a point of never milling the London, I think
\
H 4
your
 OF frtendshi?
3iourla’f}iip never goes to thelondon: I suppose you don’t choose to come into the city; but I can alture you we have very genteel vast deal of good company.
meetings,
and a
I told her I did not doubt the ele ance of their parties at all, but that 1 was So little in town I had not an opportunity of being much seen m public; and as I found She Only willied her father to be Silent that fly might harangue in her own way, I thought myself justified in leaving her, to acquaint you, my friend, with all that was going forward..
1 have been so busy with the ridiculous part of the company, that I have xtever told you we have the Hon. Mr.
Lefley, and his sister, staying with us;
♦
they are n; ft such kind.of people as
you
 OF friels^dship* 153:
you would like. I cannot bellow a higher panegyric upon them.
i.intended to have alked Selina to afsiil me today in writing to you, but to Say the truth, Ihe looks So beautiful, thatd cannot bear the thoughts of her being absent from company, tho’ but for a Short time. So you must content yourself with hearing less of our proceedings. Her dress is a thin mullin, glazed, and black ornaments; indeed'
Cj ' '
Ihe is a lovely' figure. Our neighbours will be coming Soon, and then I declare I; will not, write any more this.' evening.
Lord Mordington is to be here; you may suppose that is a great compliment to me, but Somehow I am become a mighty favourite of his lately. Selina is to dance the two first dances
5
with
154  .
/
with lord westbury, and your friend
with Drummond. I am Sorry to add
'\
we are to change partners, for I' am. Sure wc cannot meet with anybody more agreeable to us.
I mull be obliged to confess there is a Sort o flirtation between Drummond and myself, but it is a; very (Irange one; he is Sometimes So pro digioiifly attentive and civil, that I regard the conquesl as Secure and then without any visible reason, he flies to the other end of the room and don’t vouchsafe even to look at me for two or three hours together. He is a strange animal, Tut I must Suit him as well:
as I
can.
I am summoned down.
9
flairs. Adieu, my ever dear Eliza, may, liappincss ever attend you, is the Sin? cere prayer of your
Jiilia Hareourd..'
letter

j55
LETTER XVIII
Lady Julia Harcourt, in continuation
Livingjlon abhey, May 11.
UR ball, my dear Eliza, was as elegant and Splendid as my father’s heart could have willed. The company Seemed to enjoy their entertainment, and during tea, the gentlemen were So extremely brilliant, and Said So many Smart things, that they made that part of the evening, which v/e expected would be the most heavy, quite the contrary. 1 hold it however impossible for a company of mortals to
I
Spend five hours together, without Some cross accident to interrupt their mirth; and soit happened to us
I
156  .
I liad the honour of dancing the, first
minueti with Lord Wfeftbury; he was
then desired to take out another lady,
and he very properly led out Selina.
She looked lovely indeed, and danced
better than J ever saw anybody.
As Soon as the minuet was over, Lordy
Weftbury. Seated himself : next, het, and
they Seemed So entirely engaged in
conversation with each other, that I
verily believe theyvdid notcondescend
to cad one glance -- towards any other
object, for above, two. hours. L ob
served old Tedy did not like.it at all;
he was in a continual fret, but he had
been in, Such violent good humour all

(
lay, .I, had no fear his temper woukl:
So I Sake him at that time
V *
When notice was given for the
country dance,, lady Charlotte de
■o
 .
^bf
dared herself quite unequal to the fatigue, the very. idea.wasdnsupportable^. consequently Lord Weftbury handed Selina' to the head of the room; :, Drummond and myself walked quietly, to the bottom Lord Mordington could no; longer bear it,. “Why, Charles, you puppy !’^ exclaimed: he, what are you dohrg } why don’t you
hand Lady Julia to. her place?” “Lady
Julia, is engaged, Sir, and wishes to
Hand at the bottom. lam going tq
* ^
dance with miss Couitnev, ’’
You are going to do no such things Sir; it is all a plot, acon- -- hetweenyou and Henry to' torment. and, vex me;, your whole. pleasure is to make'me miserable. You knew if was my' wilh you Should dance with Lady Julia, and for that reason' you fuffered Drummond to, ask her,..
andi
O

 .
and you mull take miss Courtney, a girl that nobody knows.'’*
Here my father took the alarm!
It is to me, my Lord Mordington you muftanswer for these words; Miss Courtney is my ward, and I will not suffer any soul breathing to treat her with difrefpe61:. Her family is full as genteel as any in the room, and give me leave to add, that those people do not know their loss, that are unacquainted with her
Poor Selina! you will feel for her Situation! the eyes of the whole room fixed upon her; everybody waiting for her to begin the dance.
At this juncfture, the amiable lef leyj with a heart ever ready to relieve the distressed, joined to a strong desire
of
 . IC)
gs making himsels agreeable to Selina, came to her relief, and requested he might have the happiness of going down tlise dance with her, and he would then resign her to Lord west bury. My father took her hand from Wedbury, and., gave it to Lefley* “Aye, do so, do So, Said Don Choleric, and then Charles Shall dance with Lady Jiilia, ’^ ‘‘indeed, he will not, my Lord, said I, it.is Mr; Drummond I have promised to dance with, and I make a conscience of never being worse than my word.”
“What, do you conspire to tease me? Have you joined in the league to make my life as miserable as polfible? Speak to her, my Lord St. Clair, and insist upon her doing as She ought, ” I begj.iincle, said Drummond, if you don’t choose your. Son to dance,
- you
lo" WR HATH O R F R IE N IS HI Pv
you will not interfere with my happiness the world 111 all not oblige me to give up my partner, and therefore, ”
your tongue, Henry, hold your tongue, don’t provoke me; you
f
will put me in a pallion, and then you don’t know how you may get me appealed again. I am not often in a pallion, but if you once provoke me, * you don’t know where it.may end.”
‘‘why then, my Lord, to make the matter Short, and prevent bad consequences, I believe it will be bell to let Julia follow her own inclinations; Ihe is a perverse girl, you know, and not much used to contradiction; and you, ' my dear: Selina, will call this first dance with Mr, Lelley”. This was a sort of compromise, and therefore to be complied with.' Lord, Weftbury.
fclded
I.
/
 OF ERIEKDSHIP. l6j
folded his arms, and retired to a Seat
^ / ■
in the corner, more out of humour than I thought it poitible for him t have been.
Lady Charlotte blefsed her flats that Lord Mordington was no relation of her’s, for he had thrown her into a nervous tremour Ihe had no hopes of recovering for a month to come. The city miss looked as if she would have said we have no such brutes at the London; and her brother seemed to say, he would rather watch thefhop every Saturday night for a year to come, than Papa should Scold him So much. I believe we were all a little disconcerted, but a short time restored us to our former Selves.
As Soon as the dance was over I observed Selina go up to Lord V
ll  .
and with the Sweeteft Smile in the world, told him, “(lie was afraid Ihe had been the cause of much uneasiness to him this evening, by drawing upon him his father’s displeafure; Ihe
entreated he would not think of
\
dancing with her, as fly would not for the world do anything that might give offence to Lord Mordin'gton.”
\
You the cause of unealiness to me, my angel! said West bury; im poftible! it is from you alone that I can ever hope for any earthly joy or satisfaction. Tho’ myfather’s petulance may render me truly uncomfortable, it sir all never prevent me declaring the most unalterable, unchangeable affection for my Selina !” As he pronounced those words he pressed her hand to his lips with So gallant an air, and looked at the Same rhyme Sc beautiful,
4
I

 .
163
I don’t think there are many of us cruel fair ones, ^ except you, Eliza) that could have withstood him.
As no part of this pretty speech was intended for me to hear, I thought it time to move my quarters before it was discovered that I was in the Secret. Now perhaps you will Sufpedt me of being a little spiteful, for it appears very plain to me, through the whole of this scene, that the worthy old gentleman intended me for his fon, had not selina’s superior charms Supplanted me. But don’t millake, my dear. So generous and disinterested am I, that I can with pleasure resign him to my friend; and if the fates ordained it, could be well contented with the nephew, who, no doubt, in point of outward accomplishments is inferior to
my
IC  .
\
my Lord Weflbury. So depraved you See is Some people’s taste.
Lord Weflbury refused to dance,, but took his place at a card tablfe hill Supper was announced; he then Seated himself next to Selina, and the rest of the evening pafledoff with the utmost conviviality and good humour


I had almost forgot to tell you, T was much disconcerted by my father introducing Captain Douglas at dinner whom you may remember I met with in the Park the last time we were ia town. — I am called, for. Adieu, my dear friend, believe me your’s with the mofl unalterable affection
J. II
LETTER.

■ . 1.6<
LETTER XO
Henry Drummond Esq. to the Rev.
E, Seymour.
Wejibury - Lodge y May it.
N my lafl:, I desired you to begin to teach me wisdom; I now Sit down to beg you will give yourself no trouble about a talk So difficult. I am determined to live and die in the folly
that now polfeltes me that of loving,
/
without daring to hope for a return, * but the object is of So Superior a nature that Such reverence appears to me a part of my duty, and I yield entirely to So charming an impulse
You
l66  .
You perhaps exped an account of the company, and the entertainment
of yellerday, but I
describe no Such
trivial matters, oh! that I could paint to jmu, as I feel, the merits of that amiable woman who deigns to call me
O
friend! yes. and She calls my by that dear name in earneji, Seymour! There is happin^ss sufficient to intoxicate a flrons; er head than mine. But whither do I ramble? let me begin the story,
i
4
which I am sure I Shall tell wretchedly, but you mnji know it.
After dinner, when every one had drank his glass in honour of the day, and when the good wishes of the guests had brought tears into many bright eyes, Lord St. Clair was called out upon business. After a little time had elapsed he returned, leading by the hand an officer, young and handsome;
all
/
 . 167
all eyes were upon them, but our attention was particularly arrested, when going up to Lady Julia, he Said, ‘‘ his to you, my dear girl, this gentleman IS desirous of making his acknosw ledgments? his from you, he says, he has received his present happiness, and he wislie's, in the most public manner, to alture you of his gratitude. On no other day would I have diftrelfed you with this scene, but now! when your merit has confirmed my felicity in the mod unexpected manner, you must for once bear with the peculiarities of a fond father, and allow this gentle
V
man
, (what he is so desirous of doing)
to tell the story, in which you bear so conspicuous a part.^’
Good heavens !■ what were my sensations at this moment? Julia was overcome with confusion, She was
ready
. t
168  OF ERIENDSH 1 K
ready to saint in the arms of this firanger; I thought I beheld the lover ready to receive the hand of his fair
miftress. In Iliort, every pouibilityj and every impofhbility, that could present itself, overwhelmed my mind. But Lady Julia was retiring; with a faint voice Ihe entreated her father’s leave to withdraw; I saw her quit the room; the youth remained, and I was riveted to my chair.
When the female part of the company had retired, and Lord St. Clah was convinced his daughter’s indispo fitioh was only occasioned by this cir cumllance, he desired the young gentleman would in a few words, Satisfy the curiosity he had raised, and relate the manner in which his daughter had been the happy means of his good

$
With
%
 . 1^9
With pieasure, Sir, shall I give the history of that benevolence, which II s brought back to ease and tranquillity, a family once finking Mnder their woes.
*‘it is now above twelve months fihce my dillress was at its fummin — The 4bldier of fortune, I had early in life the imprudence to folio V the sensations of my heart, and make a generous
girl the partner of my poverty; with
«
her hand fly freely gave me her fortune; this was Small, but our Sanguine ideas thought it an inexhauftiblefand, and we flattered ourselves that before our little Store should be entirely gone. Some happy moment would reward two faithful hearts. How ideal was this expectation!! had no friends that were able to aflifl: us, and in vain,
did I expefl promotion without mo
Vol. I
I
ney,

170  .
ney, the grand mover of every earthly happiness. The few hundreds which we Oiice poffelted were soon spent; our family dncreafed, and so did our necessities; and on the birth of our fourth child we found ourselves greatly in debt, and our creditors clamorous. I was now obliged to take a Small apartment within the verge of the court, and having obtained leave of absence for a few months, in this place, I shut myself up, feldorh or ever taking
A
the air even within the limits. My charlotte’s Spirits began to sail, the infant at her breast could not there find Sufficient nourishment; and we oiir
selves had hardly the means of conti
► »
nuing our existence.
“In this state I one day strolled beyond my bounds; lost in thought, not daring to look back on the past, and
despairing
glowing colours.
 . 171
despairing of the future without knowing whither I wandered, I found myself by one of the canals in Hyde park. I debated in my mind the horrid thought of putting an end to my exillence! My wife and babes Hill presenting themselves in all their
One moment I receded, the next advanced; and in this manner I fancy I had Spent about half an hour, when the sound of horses.
.
* f
feet roofed me from my perplexity Looking up I Saw myself observed by a lady on horseback. It was early in the day, and I had thought myself quite unseen ’till this moment. Shame, and a thousand crowding sensations made me quit a Spot wnich had given birth to such fatal ideas. I walked Slowly away, my eyes fixed on the earth, ’till paoing the kdy, I heard something fall. I turned
I a
roittid^i

tfl
round, and beheld an elegant pursc, It must be the property cff the fair horfewoman. I took it up, poor as I was, my honesty did not for a moment forsake me. Begone, temptation, said I, I have had enough of thee; let integrity guide the reins.” I flew back, calling as I ran to the attendant, who followed. ‘‘stop your lady, that I may return what She has loft.” I presented .the .purse, and bowing, turned away. She called me toiler. “Sir, you have had the good luck to take up a trifle of little use to me, perhaps may not look upon its contents with the same indifference. I flatter myself you will pardon a little stratagem, made use of to try if my conjectures were well founded; the slate of mind I have just had occasion to observe must have some cause. If the want of what that purse contains, oc
xasioised
 . 173
sasioned the perturbation I have remarked, take it, and believe I would do Hill more to Serve, the vmfor
tunate.

“Gracious god! I exclaimed, hast thou Sent an angel to minister to my diftrelses! to restore me the live of a wife and children I oris it a mortal thou hast endowed with such humanity rit is a mortal Sir, weak and erring as yourself; go home to your family, and make them easy if pof ftible, and be so yourself; if this trifle is not Sufficient for that purpose, in a little time I can do more; give me your address, his all the return I alk, and haste to the relief of your family.’’ I had a card in my pocket, and just strength enough to give it, when leaning against her horse, I could
13
hardly
174  .
hardly Support mysef from falling; a starting tear at this moment restored to me my faculties. Tell me, I Said, what name it is I must teach my little ones to llsp? for whose felicity they must. offer up their daily prayers? and I will go and bid's them vyith the news
I
of Still having bread to give them.” ‘‘that, faidmy benefadrefs, is a matter of no consequence, in a few days it is poffibie 1 may myself call on Mrs. Douglas. In the mean time I wifti you all poffibie happiness..
“returned home with a heart as light as the air I breathed, and on entering my own door meet the bailiff whom, before I had So cautiously avoided. “Come in, friend, 1 Said, I no longer fear you, 1 have the means to Satisfy your demapds: ” (for I had the curiosity to look at the contents of
X 4
my
 . 175
my purse, I found there ten guineas, and a forty pound note.) Thirty was what this creditor required, and a very Ihoit timfe finiqied the bufiness. to our mutual satissa<3tion. My wife
I
trembling and fearfull durft hardly ask by what Strange event I had come into' possession of such a Sum.” ‘‘it is broad; daylight, surely you have taken no illegal means to procure it I had no difficulty of convincing her all was well, and on hearing my story her gratitude was almoll Superior to mine.
“i penta charming hour with hand my little ones; and then fet out to defray my only remaining debt; it was to the jtaylor, who had been very merciful to me, and I could not answer it to my conscience to delay ■ longer the payment when it was in my power.
i4
I
176  .
f apologised to him for being So dilatory, and told him my neceflitics were the real cause— — officer was in the room who bore marks of hard Service and Healing age. Young man, (ad dreffiitg himself to me) you Seem honest, I am Sorry you are poor; let me into our history, and tho’ I cannot Aow assist you, perhaps fbmetime it may be in my power. I expect in a little time to be rewarded for these maimed limbs by a Regiment; give me your name, when that happens I whll remember you.i told him everything I have now related, and the old gentleman’s eyes were filled with Sympathetic tears; from that moment we have continued our acquaintance, and yesterday I received from him a captain’s commission in the regiment he hasatlaft obtained. We are going to India immediately, but I could net
leave
 .
07
leave England without paying my respects to the author of all my good fortune, who has been unceasingly kind; to my family, and has often blessed us
with her Society; This, gentlemen, is
«
“my round unvarnilhed tale^.v
’tis' unnecessary, Seymour, to tell' you the comments upon it; your heart will anticipate them, and L think it is actory that will please you. Adieu,, today we are going to a rustic dinner still in honour of this enchanting mortal. J have, not' a • moment, more to throwaway upon you; very Soon you Iball hear again from your.
i
II D
LI

17^
LETTER XX
Lady Julia Harcourt,. to miss
Livhtgjlon abbey, Saturday, May 18'^
AM happy to inform you, my dear friend, that our tumultuous gaieties are all over, and that we have once more retiirned to our former peace and tranquillity; Our guests have almollall taken their departures; we have none remaining but the Lefleys, and cousin Selwin. But why happy you will say; it is not very natural for a young lady, rather of a gay turn, to be happy at the conclusion of balls, public break
fasls, c. and at the departure of a reat deal of good company from the house.
I
All
5
 OF FRI ENDSHIP. 179
All this is very true, Eliza,, but though I am fond of mirth, I do not love riots and dancing; they are, as I before proved to you, seldom productive of anything but unealinefs, as poor Selina can witness. I love the country in its limpleft form; on that account our Second day’s entertainment pleased me more than the first. If we are to have diffipatitm, let it be in London; there we cannot fright the humble villagers, nor turn the heads of our country neighbours.. This should be the mansion of peace and innocence. The company we have.at prefentinthe house is exacliy to my tafle, and when joined by our agreeable neighbours, who mull be an addition to every circle, we are quite com plete. The manly sense of Weflbury, the vivacity of Drummond, joined to the good-humour of Lehey, with a little acid poured. in agreably enough now
and
•
3^0  OF frt1?jt
and then by ^lwin> prevents our conversation from becoming either tedioui
or
Our. evenings are devoted
to Social converse; Sometimes cards .are called in as auxiliaries for the relief «fmy Father and Mother,, who have riot you know So many prejttyr siiitat tions to amufcthem as young people t Tho’i mufl do them the joftiee to/ay, i. they alw.ays^hnd; plcastye': in purtatiot. nal ciitertainments?. We, have occa? iionally a Iktie music; >seiina lings like a Syren, I cap, you.; know, quayer a,
Weftbury plays in atnafterlyt style on the german flute, and in ftiorts
towards.
we can. all do
»wn
0; jr mornings ..are entirely at our
A
The love.linessv.of the;
season, naturally leads us, .out - ofvdoors.
our aniurementj when, .we dp no
ride.
 OF frlends^iilp. I Ed,
the, Selina, and myself, wander fortk
I
Relighted with, the. opening, prospe(5t, viewing with rapture.the trees which are putting on their green attire, the flower -- ets that are just lifting up their modest heads on every hillock or, listening ^ oath, diftantwater falh.
A
S
Nature inanifnate employs Sweet founds.,
But animated Nature Sweeter ftilj,
'To Sooth and Satisfy the human ear.;.
¥
Ten thousand. warblets cheat, the day
and one
The. live long ni whose notes
nor these alone
%
Nice fingered art mull emulate in vai»i But cawing rooks, .and. kites that Swint Sublime
In still repeated circles, Screaming loud:.
The jay, tfie pie, and even the boding owl.
* 4
That hails the riling moon, haye chpaxm$, : Son me...
You will think I am become quit ast .entjmfiafl:,,, and, gain talk of nothing

i82 wrieath OF .
but the joys of rurallife; as those however are so much to your own taste, I need not make an apology for en larging upon that subject.
miss lelley’s delicate State of health confines her to the use of the chariot with my mother. She is a charming woman, has Seen ^ great deal of the world, and has profited by the observations She has made upon it. Her opinion is of importance on almost every subject; I never hear her say an ill natured or Satirical thing of anybody, but always ready to extenuate or excuse those that are accused. How melan
r « «
choly, that so amiable a person should labour under a continued Series of ill health, which renders her entirely unfit foi the more active duties of life: for I am flilf of opinion, notwithstanding

 . 183
Handing all your auguments to the contrary, that the highest character a Senlible woman can appear in, is a wife and mother.
would not, however, have you fup pose, tho’ I have Iketched out to you the plan of life we pursue, according so much with my own way of thinking, that we are exempt from troubles. No such thing; whenever my Lord mor dington favours us with his company, we are as much tormented as if we were pent up in a populous city, and obliged to bear all the noise of a clamorous multitude. His ill humour is intolerable, and unfortunately he comes much oftener than he used to do; I flatter myself all his vigilance will not prevent Wellbury continuing his partiality for Selina. But I don’t know
why
184  .
why I Should Say So, for I think (he. has ■ almost as good a chance, of ha|) pinefs with Lelley, who is extrerriely fond of her. miss Lelley is also very much attached to her, so that I aih Sure they would be a family of 'bar -- money; and at any rate it is but uncomfortable to • be connected with a: fet of people who. are not desirous of the alliance. But so blind are we to' our own happiness, that Selina seems visibly pained by every attention of lelley’s, while lire receives the mod: trifling civility from: 1 Weftbury with heartfelt fati’sfa<dion. As I don’t think, one person can judge of another in tkese affairs, I have carefully', avoided * mentioning, this oblervatiobr herw
I > am very much adoniflied at. not‘healing from you, I can only account
 ,
count for it, by Supposing you intend to surprise us with a visit, either in going or returning from London; dont let me be mistaken in my conjecture. Le voila^rrive CC fripon, this Drummond to see if we will ride this morning. His importunities cannot be refisled, Bon jour ma tres amiable, & trcs parfaitemeiit
amie
Votre
Julia harco urt.
LETTER
|86 wrfath OF
LETTER xxr.
Mils Darnley, to Lady Julia Mamun.
Londont May
Rom the fountain of pleasure and dissipation, your friend, my Julia,
addresses you. I told you in my last that
\
I expected a friend of my dear Mrs. scudamore’s from India. The moment I heard of her arrival, I left the peace full vale of Wansford, and got safe to town about a week ago. This hally departure mull be my apology for not answering your agreeable letters; and you mull make my peace with Lord St. Clair, for not accepting his invitation to the celebration of your birthday.
Where
 . 187
Wherever I am, it mull be a day marked by a thousand agreeable reflections. You are a real blessing, my dear Julia, to all who have the happi ness of calling you friend; without the affexation of appearing always in the right, you have so many ways of making all around feel that self complacency and inward fatisfaxion which is the only Sure foundation of real enjoyment

I do not mean to flatter
you, but my heart is so warmly attached to you, that I cannot at all times restrain my pen.
I had the pleasure of hearing a most favourable account * of my friend Emily, who has Some expexation of
f
being in England before many months are elapsed. Mrs. dennison is an agreeable lively woman; when I see you, I will give you the particulars of : her
l88  ,
«
her story, which are very romantic; She Speaks in raptures of Mrs. Sen, damore and her husband, and says they are extremely happy, only they have no children. As Ihe Spoke these
- N.
words, die claljped to her bosom a lovely infant that Sat Smiling on her knee, and all the mother Ihone. in. lier expressive eye.
Sl'here are little Strokes of tender xiessthat affeftone more than, the most elaborate and studied Speeches; this was one of those, and I drew out mv handkerchief without knowing why I was in want of it. She has promised to Spend Some time with me, but not at
1 have been much diverted dhee I came to town, by the numerous wants my maid has discovered that I
Imvei
OP . 189
have; and you must expect to See me; a very fajhionable lady, at icail, as far
as dress can conftitdte that characf er. I have been under the inilliiier’s care to reform my gothic faste, and v/hen ever She Sends me any new things home, Ihe attends to See I do not put them on in an old fashioned way. In the midst of ail this frippery, how my heart sighs for ease and retirement. But the folly of my maid and my milliner is not my only evil; unforfmately I have a very numerous and genteel acquaintance, who are So polite as to
f
to call upon me every morning, and I mull either be talked to death at home, or I mull fly from (hop to Shop, and from one Scene of conftrfion to another, till the agreeable hour of dressing, I
O iwv
endeavour to behave like themsclves, at Icaft as far as my country manners will permit, but I find the conversation

190

fation of the present age is chiefs made up of exclamations; and they who are happy enough to make a discovery of any defeat or mistake in a friend or acquaintance, are Sure of universal applause.
Methinks I could be as Severe (though
tending to a different point) as the company I now associate with, upon the follies as well as vices of the age; pope’s description is but too justa youth of frolic, an old age of
cards.
yy
But my railing at the world will not reform it, therefore I Suffer myself to be dragged from one place of
public resort to another, with all the
%
patience of a stoic; and please myself in refleifting better things are in store for me. Such conversation, my dear Julia, I intend to leave in three days,
and
 .
19 I
and recompense myself for what I Suffer here, in tiie agreeable Society at Livingston,
Tell Lady St. Clair I will do myself the honour of Spending a week with her, and 1 Shall in that time I hope learn as many amiable virtues from her, as I have been losing hours with the gay company I now keep. I wilh most impatiently for the day when I Shall once again see my friend, my Julia, my companion. I love you so sincerely that the profpe<51; alone of being with you gives a glow of pleasure to my bosom, easier felt than described. You must prepare Selina to love me; being your friend, ensures her a place in my heart. I Shall have great pleasure in feeing one who stands so high in your esteem.
1
192: .0F prlendshll*.
4
I begin to Sear for your poor heart * t)rummond Seems to be gaining ground fast,, * hope he will not prove a traitor and Heal it quite away, but he Seems very weiii inclined to give his own in return, and mutual love has long been ’jt'our criterion of happiness. That you ■may enjoy it, with every advantage, is the ardent wish of, your
Eliza darnuv.

.r
t
P. S. 1 have not forgot your in Si nuation about Mr. Seymour, but have not now time to answer it. When I See you, I pray you be Sparing of your
raillerv.

 OF TRIENDSHIP.
191
LETTER XXIL
The Rev. Et s^ymour^ to lie
Drummond, Esq.

an
0
hvansford. May 16^
\
OUR letters, dear Drummond, hg, yi^for Some time given me much concern. Your lively imagination has often hurried you beyond the flri(5t bounds of propriety; but whilo; your heart took no part in these follies, I flattered myself you .Would Soon return to reason. I am i Sorry however to observe, that these o; aieties are at lensth become rrr mhiol.
Excuse me, Drummond, if I seem a litde harsh in my expreltioiis; itis not
Vole I.
c"


ii' OF ' FRI ENDSHI R.
a time to Study flowery metaphors, when, a frierid is in danger f losing
"that integrity which gave addition
lustre to his other virtues. Your conduct
*.
towards Lady Julia is certainly repre henlible; and in a still deeper Ihade will you appear when you confider your engagement with mademoiselle Sanzey. By every art you were mailer of, you endeavoured to gain her love, and now leave her to regret her folly in years of future misery; and all this to indulge a very culpable vanity. You have been received a second time into ah amiable family, and are repaying their kindness to you by betraying their only child into a false hope of happiness; and' will leave her in the same easy way to lament her credulity. Thus, Drummond, you will have made
two amiable women unhappy, to
»
amuse an idle hour.
^ '
Aik
• of friencshtp.
195
Aik your own he^rt, if you have sled with honour or with hunianity; Would you betray a. trust committed to you by an
? how
•then Shall you answer for your presbnt condu6t? have you not already betrayed the confidence'of the friends of Mademoifelie Sanzey, and are you not about to ruin for ever the tranquillity
of another happy family? You call
/
yourself a gentleman, and expect to bis treated as Such; but you Should endea vour to fupporc the chara^ler which you pretend to. How often have I heard you condemn thole whose Heps you ate now following! recoiled yonr before it is too Lte, and leave a place, where you are every moment in danger offorfeiting thathqnor which you have till lately so greatly prized. Tou condemn the midnight robber, who takes from you what perhaps you can very
Kz
w
1^6  CF, friel?dshrp.
spare ■ which the cries. of an heli,, family probably have driven him to seek;; Surely his crime is greater, who robs a fellow-creature of peace and happiness. To your feelings, to your justice, to your religion, I apply; .ad; like a man of integrity, and xrulj the rest to heavem
I hope to hear froih you Soon, hut not from Lord mordingtovs \ if you cannot refill' a temptation, fly from it; come to me, I will endeavour all in niy power to settle your disordered thoughts; particularly as at present I am in want of comfort. Miss Darnley is gone to London, and in her return is to visit Lady Julia, who I understand is her moll intimate friend. The country has loll moll of its charms, in her absence; let me then, my friend, persuade you to come and (hare with me
I
those
/
OF . 197
tsosc pleasures we here can boast;; will find a lelf approving conscience one of the first blessings a mortal can enjoy. In this retreat you will recover your fenses, and See the dangerous precipice which you have escaped; and in your Seymour you will find a Sympathising friend, who feels more than half your diftrelfes, and will do everything in his power to banish them.

E. S.
k3
LETTER

log WB^EATH O IRIENDMIS
I. E T T E R xxni.
Menry Drummond, Esq. to ilie Rev.
J. Seymour,
■%
tvejlbury lodge, May 2; o.
\
%
OU are grown a wretched correspondent, Seymour, who were nee very fond of writing; what is it that has wrought this iinpleafant X hange in you? is it love, that powerful passion?? So, how different are its effedfs on different constitutions;; makes me loquacious to the highefb degtee, and if I am not talking, I muss be writing. I am fensible that my conversation is tiresome to my friends, because I seldom vary my subject. But I have found out the way to hu fnour Weftbury by turning the cork
versation
 op . i99<
*
verfatioh on Selina ^ whose life and adventures are so interwoven with Lady julia’s, that it would be difficult to Separate them had I any inclination; and I fancy I Should not much offend you, were I now and then to make your Eliza my theme. I hear she is really very amiable, but • absolutely invincible.
We have been for these last three days on a visit in the neighbourhood, and were not able to see our friends at the Abbey till today: We went early, and were Shown into Lady julia’s dressing room, ( which is the levee room in the morning); She met me with a Sorrowful countenance. Singing the following song,
i
where’s my Twain, so blithe and'
clever?
Why has he left me all in sorrow r
?
K 4
a
tjirci
a Y/ reath OF ?
Three long days arc gone for eyer

^ he Said he’d come tomorrow.
cc.
Her affcjisfced gravity did not lorg
remain, file‘suffered me to make my
peace with her; and while Weftbury
and Selina were Saying Soft things in
another part of the room, I Sealed our
reconeiliation on her beautiful hand.
and we are now as good friends ais
ever.
Selwyn came in and did not appear
to relish the good-humour and
familiarity of the company at all; and
still less So, when Lord St. Glair •
entered the room with a letter in his
hand, and addressing Lady Julia,
Said, “I have a melfage for you, from
Captain Douglas; he begs me to present
to you his moil refpe6tful acknowledgments
on all accountsj more
pat


 OF FRIENI>SHIP. 201
particularly for your lall at of .” ‘‘oh, very well, my dear Sir, I know what he means perfectly, you need say no more on that fubjcd: .**
“Indeed, but I Shall acquit myself of die charge; this last kindness is, being sponsor for his little boy, who was on Thursday named Henry, by your desire. Now pray tell me, Julia, how in the name of wonder you came to fix on this name of all others?’* “Upon my word. Sir, J, — I, — r don’t know, rit came into my head just at that mornent; and I thought it would do quite as well as another, as he was at a loss, and deli red. me to decide for him.’’ “Very .well, my dear, I have no sort of objection to it, only I could not help thinking you must have Some
particular i pais' above all others.”
to that
name
K 5
/
202 WBEATH OF
This last Sentence was a little hard' iipon poor Lady Julia, who had not reeovered her confusion;; her father looked at her with a Tery Signifi • ieant Smile all the time. As for myself,
tlio’ I could not mistake: this little
/
proof of her attachment, yet the diftress
it occasioned her, took away all, the
/
pteafure ( at another time) it would have given me. Selwyn looked that very image of mifchiefi How can that, cynic suppose himself an object of, elleem, or prefumie. to talk of love toi
AW
.But perhaps 1 ought not to blame: in another that presumption of' which I am myself an example.; or confess to you what I have had the temerity to. do since this eclaircilfement. On tha Second day of the rejoicings On Lady julia’s birthday, we were dancing,
amongll
 . 203
amqngft the village girls under an awning in the lawn, when a little ena merd butterfly, with which her lady fliip’s handkerchief wasfaflened, dropped off, and I unfortunately trod upon it and crushed it to atoms. She bore it with chrijiian fortitude, 2ixidi only lamented the loss because it had been the present of Selina.
I determined at that moment to replace it by some trifle emblematic of my love and sent to Grey for a golden arrow I hadfeeh worn by some of my female acquaintances. I scribbled the following lines for' its passport, and waked some fortunate minute to present it in. >
Gb, happy trifle, to my julia’s break, “‘and there entranced in joy, for ever rest; “Tell the dear maid, what pangs forher I prove, ^
How oft I sigh, how very much I love;
“Say
.'^04 wkeath of ..
** Ssty without her no bliss my heart can know,
Without her smiles, I Sink to endlefe •woe.’*^
1 carried it is. my pocket till : this jgaorning, and as we were coming away, threw it to Lady Julia; telling er it was a rtiiu I had met with Some,. Where, and I knew Ihe wa fond of shem 5 but charged her to open it till so ^orrotif mrning^ or she would not be able, to difbover its merit..
I am now living in fuspenfe (which: Swift says is the life of a fpidery tiw If know whether Ihe acqepts or rejedts my present, and my Suit, Weljbury has.
just told me Miss Darnly h expedeft at Livingston,, shall then judge, of,
your choice, and tell.yon truly, ifl think you. have any, hopes; till then iarewdl, think of me as I am, ’’nothing

 . 2q5
extenuate, nor Set down. ought in malice
D
% ^


LET T E R XXIV
Henry Drumnhond Hci* AO the, VI Keymottr^...
wejlharyaodge: ^ mufat,,
TRL L me, ' my dear Seymour,
what I mull think of the follow
ing‘ lines from Lady Julia, received this morning.
The wandering shaft feturns, to tell" It finds na place of rest;
No. peaceful home wherein to dwdl,
} •
Nftlarbour in my breast
Returns

20s
 .
Returns to say that julia’s heart,
To  only true,
Turns from the sight of cupid’s dart.
Yet “turning trembles too’**
J. H.
I anticipate your Sentiments on this occasion. You will Say L am certain that it is the very answer I ought to
have wished for, situated as I am;
*
that her friendihip is all I can aspire to, and that, Ihe freely gives.
I acknowledge the truth of this argument, I agree to my own unworthi r
nefs;, but I feelit is not the return my
#
heart has been fi ghing. for, or ( fihali I own my vanity,) that I have expected.
Welibury knows nothing of this affair, and has engaged us to dine at
Lord St. clair’s tomorrow;; that
# 0
time
WREA'TH OF FRLENDSHIT.
07
times Iliall perhaps have recovered'; my usual Spirits, and be ready to convince ltidry Julia, that I am Hill
if So Ihe would have it. I now begin to
>
it has been accident alone that made her six on my name for her little godson; and this very thought has almost, determined me to wifir ferioujiy that her heart may feel nothing more for me: than simple friendihipi Yes, indeed, 1 wilhvery soon make an>effort to regain; the indifferencef the ease, and fatisfaftion i enjoyed ‘ before I met with her; but, this day I devote to disappointed love,, and, tormorrow 1 leavetq^ chance.

As Mif^darnley is now at theabbey ^tis not likely Lady Julia and I Ihouldl have a«tete a tete,; when that happens;
_ I
(which. 1 dare not promote) I will: make, my confession to her, and let her judge what in. my cafe is best to be;
done.
\
2o8  .
done. With whatever She determines for me, I will acquiesce, let misery be the consequence!! 1 have not coii rageto determine for myself. I can reason and resolve, perhaps as justly as any one; but my passions hurry me away, and make me err in acting.
The Rbove was written yesterday morning, his now twelve at night, and we are only just returned from our visit.,., my usual Subject takes the lead, let me inform you that I admire yoiir Eliza very much;. nor do I see in.her looks, or manner so hopeless. a prpfpeift: as you will apprehend. There is a foftnef^ and gentleness in her, b.c. hayipur that an insensibility, of mind could, never, inspire; and, when, your liam^ was mentioned, her, cheeks were suffused with a more glowing, colour than they bore. at, .our fiist entrance •.
Lady
 OF FRIBNDSHIF. 20p
Lady Julia introduced me to her as your particular friend; her eyes were call down at that moment, and a something or pervaded her whole frame,
which if I am not mistaken forebodes
\
eood fortune for you.
Lady Julia, and your humble servant met not with t heir usual ease, but it was Soon restored. I rallied her on having forgot the terms we fet out upon, and told her I did not expect: to have been treated so much in earnest as to have my gift returned. She took the hint, and rallied in her turn with much art and Spirit, said, had the trifle come in any other Ihape, it might perhaps have had a better reception, but it came in one so questionable, ” it terrified her, and she wa glad to be rid f it at any rate. ‘‘ By the by, says lie, I believe you have
210  F FRIINTSHTF.
broke thro’ the rules I laid down on's the commencement of our jejl, for, if I remember right, I absolutely forbade all prefents.’’ Indeed, my fair lady, you made no such proviso, nor have I broken the Ihadow' of a com -- mandment; therefore do mot let the punishment exceed the offence, but once more extend your clemency to one who cannot exist under your displeasure.” ‘^poor soul! well I will forgive you this once, but beware of a il^hd transgreltion.”
Now, my good Seymour, when you have done making fermons, do take up your pen to me; it really would be very laborious to any one but myself, to keep feribbjing at this rate without a return; and I Shall Soon begin to feel myself negle6ted.
Y our’s ever,
H. D.
^EATH OF FRIENDSHIF. ait
LETTER XXV
Miss Darnky, to Lady Julia Harcourt
jvansford hou/ef June L
/
OW Sweetly pass our hours when in the company of those we love! It was with the deepest regret my friend, that I left you; with you I feel all the joys of Social life; it is only when I am parted from you that I find myself a Solitary being. Your  is Sufficient to cheer my lonely hours, and I have often told you I look upon it as the first blessing of my life.
Your Selina has delighted me. I thought Livingfton abbey could have
no
2.12 WRFATH or FRIENBSHIP4
no addition the last time I was with' you, yet Selina taught me that no situation in this state of being could befo' happy but it might be improved; foti her Society mull add to the pleasure of any party. I envy you, my Julia, her fiiendihip for you, and Sometimes cannot helpregrettmg that I have not such a companion; but if I. am not dcgefved, even ou will be deprive ere long of her agreeable Society. Lord Wcftbuiy andjmr* Lelley, if you will allow me. to be a judge, have both felt the power of her accomplishments.
Her beauty is much fupei ior to wkat I expected. You told me fly was handsome, she is, in my mind, the most finished beauty I ever Saw. Her person is elegant, and every motion graceful; I fear Lelley will be an
unsuccefsful
 .
ia
misuccessful lover. Lord Weftbury's Superior accomplilliments must for

ever banish hope from his bosom; I pity him mod sincerely, for who can see Such perfection and not love it.?
I was much Struck with the manly graces of Lord wellbury’s personas well as mind, he Seems in every point
of view formed to charm and capti
A' ■'
the soul; and indeed, to proceed further in my account of the date of affairs at livingdon abt^j, I have Some fears for your little ladyjhip.
Before I vifltcd you I had reason to believe the lively Drummond had not paid so many visits at the Abbey without dealing Some part of its best treasure away; your behaviour soon
convinced me I was not midaken. I
watched
: t 14,
VTIEATH OF ,.
watched you all with great attention, and found love had various methods
of Showing his power. You, my Julia, I Saw with infinite regret had lost Lome of that vivaciy, for which you was So justly admired. That careless ease and unaffedted gaiety with which you iifed to treat all your admirers, va
4
nifties the moment Drummond appears; and tho’ you attempt to rally, you do it with an air of constraint. drummond^s extreme vivacity is too much even for you, Sometimes. I love you, my ever amiable friend, with So much Sincerity, that no change
can escape unobserved Indeed, Lord
and Lady St. Glair are so much engaged with their other visitors, that they have not so many opportunities of feeing you
gether as I hadv
Drummond toi

AVREATH OF TRIENDSH IP. 2-1 i
I think your descriptions both of Toict vvestbury and .Drummond were very just; perhaps were you to draw •mr. drummond’s picture nora, you would colour it a littletho’ he cannot boast so much beauty as his .cousin, yet there are few men Superior TO him in internal accomplistiments.
1 arrived at home on Monday about teatime, and when I sat down alone I felt a regret at leaving you all, that almost made.melancholy; and as company is the only resource for low Spirits, I went down in the evening to .Mrs. morton’’s. I ■found ibe had a Tarty, therefore Sauntered home.again Avithout sending in my name. However the servant told her, and she diff
^
rpatcliedmr. Seymour, tx fpeclal mef
♦
fenger, to beg me to return.
4
I
1
 of friendshif.
t excused myself, as I felt a little fatigued, but I could not prevail on him to return to the company. He infilled upon Haying to supper with me. I confessi was not Sorry for his resolution, as I never Spend my time more agreeably than with him; but, Julia, men cannot bear encouragement. No, not even the modest Seymour. He Saw I was pleased with his company that evening, and he has contrived to come to tea, and Hay every evening since. I am not aprude,! am sure, yet Such repeated visits diftress me exceedingly; and I am aware on what fubjedf the conver ation of this gofliping village may turn. I elleem Mr. Seymour as a friend, and am never more entertained than when conversing with him; he. improves both my mind and heart by Lis good sense and many amiable quali iications, biit as a friend alone I wish
r.

217
to view him. Had I been older, or he married, I should have thought myself particularly fortunate in having such a neighbour to direct my lludies and regulate my mind; but he is too young, and too handsome; and tho’ 1
V
am resolute, the world is unacquainted with my design of living flngle.
ting to me.
My paper reminds me I mull con dude. Tell Selina her merit has Secured a first place in my heart, and that it will give me infinite pleallire if fly will perform her promise of writ
Has your perverse cousin left you yetthe impression he made on my imagination will not easily be effaced; nor will it be a Short time that can for a moment banifii the loved •idea of my Julia, from her i
Eliza Darnley.
LETTER
vol I.
L
ai WRIATH OF frltndshitj
LETTER XXVI
miss Courtney, to miss Darnley
4 Llvingjlon abbey, May
HE privilege, my dear madam, you have given me, of Styling myself your friend and correspondent, has made me too desirous of that pleasure, to let one opportunity pass me without improving it.
How Sweet is the name of friend, to one, who like me, has felt the liaid hand of adversty! yet how little reason have! to complain, blessed with the prote: • ion ot this family, where the Iludy of every individual in it appears to be only how they may mcrease my happiness.

 .
21,
pinels. Lady St.. clair’s goodness to me Sometimes quite over powers me and yet not even to her can I open my heart So Sreely, as I can to you, my dear miss Darn lay. Your Soft and Sympathising nature Seels So fenlibly foi the diftress of all your friends, that to (hare in your pity is more than half a cure.
v/hen I first came here, the only request that Lord St Clair made me, was to' be cheerful and happy; how much do I regret that it is the only one in the world, that I cannot at all times comply with. F or Ibnte time, wearing the Semblance of mirth, joined
to the Society of my eve lively Julia,
^ /
ha L made chearfiilness So habitual to
I
me, that 1 began to think my natural dispofition 'vas not so grave as. 1 Sad
imagined. Lord wedbury’s attach
L 2f
ment

220  OP .
ment to me has once again plunged me into my former distresses. Will you, my dear friend, in this perplexity fa your me with your advice and consolation; will you hold forth your kind protecting hand to guide my erring steps to the path of rectitude? how ought I to act? ought I for ever to ba nilli myself from his presence? for whilst I thus daily see him and convers with him, whilst I am hourly a witness to so many proofs of his amiable dif polition, r cannot behold him with indifference; and whilst I am encouraging his partiality for me, I am drawing down upon him the wrath of a Father.
How dreadful is that thought, even to me who have never kn iwn the sweets of parental tenderness! how diftreflins
is the idea ofactlg againft.the witeof
a
 . 221
a parent! Heaven forbi4 I Ilioiild ever be the cause of making any one guilty of such a crime!
Lord St, Clair this morning took me into his library; he told me he was desired by Mr. lehey to make proposals to me, and was invested with full power to make such Settlements as he and I should think proper. I felt myself very much embarralted at this proposal, but requested he would in as gentle terms as possible inform Mr. Lelley, that I never could be his. He Seemed very much aftonilhed at my answer. ‘‘ Why, my dear Selina, said he, you cannot have considered this matter properly! you know not half Mr, lelley’s good qualities, nor how blelted that woman will be who connects her fate with his. I should wilh you to take a little more time to
L 3
re

222
refi
Tf
I told him time was unnecef saiy, I as quite convinced in my own mind that I never could be happy with him; I should be Sorry to do anything that might give him diipleasure. ‘‘by no mean Said he, perhaps some Sormer attachment: but I will not press you too close upon the Subject;; love, whatever y ?u do, let it e f r your own happiness, and you viii obli
me.

Shall I make an apology to you, my dea, r miss Darnley, for trespafling So much upon your patience. You see what you have drawn down upon your felfby requeiiing me to lay open my whole heart to you; and yet I hope you will not retraayotir promise of alio wing me to fubcribe myself.
Your very sincere friend,
Selina Courtney.
.A
LETTER
 . 222
L E T T E R
xxvir
miss Darnley, to Mrs. Scudamore
/

jvamford house, June 4, 1789.'
I lit
TITH inexprcfilble joy
down to write to my Emily, *
I flatter myself for the lafl time whikt
file remains in India. 1 have been in
London, have Seen your Eleanor, and
have Spent many hours in talking of
you, my friend. Her accounts are
Such as my heart had earnestly wished
to receive, you are well and happy;
and patiently Support that time you are
obliged to continue in India; a time
however which Ilie alfures me, will
not now exceed a few months : Nay,
that it is even probable you may have
L 4
left
ath  OE TRIENDSHIF*.
left Madras before this letter readies
y
you. L am willing, however, to riik the ibss of my time, raider than yon Hiould, for a. moment think me un kind.
B received your elegant presents, and accept of them as tokens of your fhendihip, which 1 hopewih Continue whilst we both have life. Mrs. den nifon is just such a woman, as one may easily ftippofe would endear herself to alb who had seen her in the dic tressful situations in which you de feribe her. She is in high Spirits, and laughs and talks with such good-humour and vivacity, that I regretted I could not prevail upon her to viftt me at Wansfordbut (he would not leave Mr. dennison, and bufineft detained him in town

 . 22^
It is impossible for me to describe the real pleafme I have in the hope of feeing you, my friend; in once more enjoying your society, which I have always esteemed one of the bell blessings heaven can bt; stow. I anticipate the delight of meeting you after...so Jong an absence, and a thousand agree? ablefcenes float on my imagination I will not be denied the pleasure of your company and Mr. Scudamore's at Wansford, the. moment you arrive.

My houle<ougl|t to be confldered by
come
you asr your then my Efnily*^ and grace thdfe fcenea you To mucteadmire.. If you will hot linger, perhaps' you may honour the nuptials ot, your, friend, by your
Don't start' ' remember I am but a weak womans and my resolutions
.d5

SV
k
226 WREA.THOF .
as changeable as tliose of most o my. Sex. But one word I niust Say in nay own desence. When I determined to
4
live single, it. was beeause the gentlemen I had Seen did not equal my ex. peoation, neither did it appear to me that any of them could make me hap, py; but this objeoiion is removed. I have at last become acquainted with a gentleman., So amiable both in his character and behaviour, So much bcr loved by the world, and So attentive and affectionate to me, that if I ftiu were to persist; in refusing him, what at first deserved the name of resolutionj^
would be now obstinacy.
V
But come, and you Shall yourself judge of the merit of Mr, Seymour. I will not Say one word more in his favour. When you are acquainted with,.
him
It
\
 . 227
him, I am certain yoii will approve of the choice of your friend,
E. Darnley.

L E T T E R XXVIII miss Darnley, to miss Courtney.
Wansford.houfey yane 6y
OUR letter, my Senna, was a true emblem of your heart, and, as Such, welcome to the bosom of ..
.regret extremely the perplexities which Mr. lefley’s offer has thrown you into; but I flatter myself in the end they will prove fortunate. The goodness of your own heart w ill lead
YOU
228
 OF' ienoshift
I •-
you to walk steadily in the path of rectitude, and that you know, is the Sure road to happiness
You desire me to give you my advice: I Should have infinite pleasure in doing it, if you had occasion for any;, but few young people are better qua, lifted to judge for tliemselves than you,, my friend; yet to prove to you how
ready I Should be to oblige you, if I
%
had it in my power, one thing I will' advise, and that is, to make Lady St. Clair acquainted with lordweftbury*s attachment to you. Her tenderness over you, and care for your welfare, entitles her to expect such a return; V beside.,., will be a relief to youc own mind; for whilst you are acting under the eye of So amiable a lady, you will ' have the satisfaction of knowing: that you are fulfilling the wishes of you bed friend.
 CF FRTENDSHIF.
229
I am afraid T have imposed a hard talk, but Lady Julia's alfedlion for you will lead her to point out the least painfiil way of consuking her mother j though Julia is lively and w make us all feel the Sallies of her wit Sometimes, yet her heart is blelsed with the Softeft' Sympathy, and 1 am Sure you may with Safety trull your Secret in her

r think myself highly obliged by the confidence you have placed in me, and allure yourself at all times an in s terest in my heart, thk« time, or ehange of situation, can never alter. I Should have inhnite pleasure. in Seeing' you. at Wansford house> and thos)
Lady St. Clair absolutely refused you and my Julia to me atuprefent,? I will' hope .on Some future day to have That happiness j at ali^tinjes^t. my amiable
yoiwig;

230  OF FRIEND'SHIF.’
young friend, look on my house as a home, where you will meet with a heart truly Senlible of your merit, and arms open to receive you.
To Show you, my dear Selina, how much I value your confidence,. I am going in my turn to acquaint with a secret which I have Scarce ventured to whispereven to myself. You may recolleo, when I was at Livingfiion, hpw unmercifully Julia rallied me,, on living in what fly calls a state of maid ism; it is an old subje(5t of conversation, tho’ I confess I never felt it So painful before. The love of retire, inent has been the leading wilh of my heart ever since I had reason Sufficient to form a willi do not mean by retirement, a Solitary oxiftence without one friend and comforter, but a life pf
reason, Such as is described by Thomp,
fon«

 . 2
3^
Son, whee he Says, knew he but his happiness, of man the happiest, he who from the crowd retired, c. &c.’^
As I had it in my power to fix my residence where I chose, the country appeared tome most likely to pro? diice that happiness I was in. Search of, A companion was the next thing Ifound myself in., want of.; A husband was certainly the, most likely to be chosen by a young woman in my fituar tion. But tho’. I. had many offers, which by the world would be called eligible, my heart was,, still my. own; most of the gentlemen that addressed me had views and fehemes. of life So different from what I had formed, that I determined to remain as I now am; and resolved, ifl Should never have it in my power to perforin those active
duties
Z^Z  .
duties of wise and mother, I might at least be Serviceable in other respects to my fellow creatures.
My
fubje61:
S
thought no temptation could prevail upon me to alter it. 1 have lived however to prove how' weak female resolutions are, when they concern affections of the hieart. I have Spent much time with Mr. Seymour, ( who you kjpiow is Mr, drummond’s friend) and find his ideas so exacuy Suited to my own, that in spite. of all my refo
pleafei'd with
1
I
h i
every reason in the world to flatter my -- self that the attachment is mutual; and have no doubt * that with him I ^ experience all'the happinefe:, which fency has formed, and which To tel dom has been brought into real
life.
 . 233
—
Pray tell Julia, and bid her spare her friend, who loves you and her
with truth and tenderness. yours ever,
’ ♦
E. Earnhy.
LETTER XXIX
Mrs. Scudamore, to Miss Darnley
M
Madrasy March 1, 1787.
Y last letter to you, my dear friend, was concluded in such haste, and written in Such agitation of mind, that I have Some doubts of its being intelligible. But I could not part with Kleanor without great emotion, knowing the jc>c>r/ She was bound to; and that it would be in my calendar many long months e’re we Should meet again.
The
234  OF FRIENDSHIF.
I
The charge Oie left me with too was in a state that called forth all my companion, and the fuffedngs She has since endured, have endeared her to me, as it seemed entirely to arise from her alteftion for Mrs. Dennifon and her little one. For one whole month I w.atdied over her bed without any hopes of her recovery; her constitution at last Surmounted the fury of her disorder, and fne is now able to walk about, and to sit an hour or two in my apartment every day.
After the Scene which I described to you in my last, we thought it bed she Should be unacquainted with the hour of their departure, as believing her weak Spirits would not bear the shock of fepaiation. For once our humanity led us into an error; for her diftress on hearing her fiiends were gone, beggared

 OF FRIINDSHIP. 2j5
gated all description; and I believe Ihc would have born the ceremony of taking leave with more fortitude than fhc did this fatal intelligence. I was quite unequal to the sight of Such poignant for row, and left her to the care of her country women, who, were moll of them as little calculated for comforters as myself.
'I'his poor Sufferer has employed all my thoughts and attention since we first met, and it has been a matter of astonishment to many of my acquaintances, That I should decline gay parties and brilliant afitemblies, for the Sake of administering consolation to a poor dependant; who, (when I tell them I believe she has experienced a variety of misfortunes) are so very charitable, as to think Ihe had better die and So end them. I flatter mysels, however, that

226
 OF frienhshifi
I have preserved her life for Some good purpose; at least 1 have the satisfaction to think I have been doing my duty, and fulfilling Some of the intentions of; my creation.
1 have never yet dared to ask Orixana for any account of her life, fearful to open a wound which seems ready to bleed at the most delicateltouchv I cannot bear to gratify my own curiosity at the expense of any ones feete ings. Some time perhaps when her health is better eftablilhed, when she has known.me long enough to treat me with confidence, and believes I am worthy of it, and when Ihe herself may willi to unburthen her heart of Some of its Sorrows. I may learn the concurring circumstances that have brought her at last under my protection; where I do hope the unpleasant
part
 OF frieitdship.
237
part of her life has had its termination. Itismywifti, though not always in my power, to make every one happy around me.
A truce at present to this melancholy subject.. me give you an account of a visit I made yellerday to a country woman of your's, a Mrs. Long, who with her husband is just arrived. He had been in India ibefore, and having Spent the greatest part CI what he carried from thence, is come back to re imhurfe, and has brought over a little wife, about fi xteen, who is in high spirits, and delighted with the splendour of her house and the inumber of her iervants.
My first inquiry in this country, after compliments have passed, is, ‘*from what part of England are you
come? **
a? 8
 OF FRIFNCSHIP.
come?” You will guess the pleasure it gave me, to find Mrs. Long had lived ‘‘ in the neighbourhood of Wansford.” I did not delay a moment to inquire after miss Darnley, and waited with all the eager expedlation of  for an account of one So dear to me; but (he informed me that you were not personally acquainted, tho’ So near neighbours, ^‘you were very singular in many things, and lo unfafhfna leyhcr: Marna did not choosethe acquaintance; for you kept very little company besides the reffory the curate, and their zvives; and mama Said indeed there was very little to be learned from one who associates with Such people, un less indeed it was a receipt for a prim rose pudding, or cow ship wine; and as it was not likely Should ever need those acconiplijhmen^ty Ihe would not
take off our attention from those mo
elegant
rc

wbeath of
C)
•?
ejed.mt dcamretnents nefe^ary for everf woman of fafriion that is intended to live in the world.”
• \
m s ’ * ^
Yon may believe, Eliza, how indignant
I was, and how i delpifed yompanegy~ r. “But Surely, my dear Madam, I
Mil
highly educated, and poireifes every accomplilhi neiit necessary to adorn the moll exalt d Station.” “Perhaps So, but my Mama always gave us Such an idea of her, that I had not the lead de
»
to see her. The men say She is
%
handsome, but She treats them all with such a civil indifference, that the number of her lovers will never be great. Indeed, Long told me on our voyage, that he had lome idea of her himself, but from the accounts he had of her he was convinced She would never m ke the figure he should wish his wife to do,
fb
A ^
\
«

\
A
\
£40
so never went to Wansford; and if lie fiad I suppose he would have found her with her poultry; hearing the village children their catechism; or making caudle for some poor lady in the straw.


^2
I left Mrs. Long without attempting your justification,, that the most studied eulogium could not have painted your character in higher or more amiable colours than this little satirist, with her childish censure.

Goon, my bell Eliza, in this excellent plan, begun so nobly indefiance of the pleasures and fedu6uons of the world, and continued in defiance of the calumnies of the ignorant and weak. I am, ever your’s,
RS,
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
of Pa.
Library


^ V V
W. O 1
/^\ V /



THE
W R E A T H
O F


O R,
%
A RETURN FROM
I N D I
A
A NOVEL,
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS

PRODESSE ET delectares
Jl/i
IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II

LONDON;
PRINTED FOR
WILLIAM LANE, LEADENHALL street.
M DCC XC
(fl (d
03z
03^
c3
r N K
*
'isr R JE t It
b P
9
klendsnif

LETTER XXX
jii/d Ilarcoarty to Mils darnk)\
Livingjion abbey, Lune 9.
Have just received your letter, my dear Eliza, and atii truly rejoiced
and
>
y that you arrived Safe at home
found all your friends well.
i ^
\
i K ^
'^
>
0
vj
d
Mte regret your absence much; but I. cannot help remarking your very great anxiety to be gone. What could it arise from.?’ You Say our Society war more agreeable than ever, and that you should have liked to have Spent a little
•I
4
<1
Vol. IL

raor^‘
"I ft s 'J
 .
more time in ciflltivating selina’s friendihip. Pray, my dear, what prevented your Spending a little more time?” could not the family at home dispenfe longer with your absence? or, perhaps you were not able to
4
bear drummond’s noise? none of that will do, my dear Eliza, you may as well confess honestly at once,
f
that tho’ like Troy you have flood a ten ' year’s liege( ( I verily bel ieve the men commenced bv ertures to you at sixteen)) are obliged to capitulate at lafl; and after refusing fb many men of high birth, and wonderful achievements, you are going to bellow yourself upon a clerical lover. He is likewise a phoenix of his kind; Drummond says he is endowed with every virtue under Heaven. How happy, a woman are you to meet with
such
 OF friendshtp.
3
Such a friend in these times of dif*
V
. fipatioii?
It would be rather extraordinary if
arguments we
O
you and I were to change chara<5lcrs, and yet I am half inclined to think twill be So; it would only be convincing
s
each other with the
> f
X V,
each have used, for I have Some thoughts of living single; and it ap
j
pears very plain to me that you arc bound with a freqi gale and a Strong current to the port of matrimony.
I do not like, Eliza, the charge you bring against me of gravity; it is unjust, believe me, and ill-founded : you
i..
are the only person in the w orld that ever made the observation; and I am very apt to believe it has only been in Some of your pensive moments, when you have been sighing for the joys ol
B 2
Wansford
4
 OP .
S
vvansford, that you have beheld me withajanndiced eye. If I am to be an old maid, I will not be a grave one., I am determined to exhibit the charadlet in a new light, and not look with a grudging eye on my young friends who are enjoying life all around me. I will make parties for the young and the gay, and when I am too old to enjoy the sprightly dance or Song myself, I will participate the pleasure by beholding the cheerful group of happy mortals, that are frilking by my fide.
these are the pleasures I Shall have while )'ou are all anxiety about the education of your family and the peace of your husband., More rational will your empdoyment be, I confess; but we nilifl all be content with the condition that is allotted us in this world;
and
 .

and I am now well convinced it is not mine to Iliare in the pleasures of connubial happiness. There is but me man of all I ever Saw, with whom I could willi to partake the joj s and cares of life, and he is other wife engaged; this may perhaps appear furpil ling to you, but So it is.
Yesterday evenin
her
5»
: e engaged in playing a rub;
; remaming party were in a different part of the room. ’we had discoursed on various Subjects; the conversation insenfibly turned on private and long engagements; Drummond was expressing his disapprobation of them in warm terms, when
Selwin interrupted him, and with a
%
great deal more passion than good breeding in his manner, Said, “it ill be
BS
came
6
 .
came Mr. Drummond to Speak on Such a Subject, who had not only entered into a long and Solemn engagement with an ‘ amiable woman in a neighbouring kingdom, but was likewise endeavouring to Seduce the affe6: ions of the finell woman in his own, with
I
no other view than to leave her in the Same wretched manner to deplore her credulity
Drummond was roused by this un expedled attack into very great warmth, and replied, that he did not understand what he meant by talking to him in that Strain, and begged leave to tell him he would not bear ite ‘dsyou do not underhand. Sir, Said Selwin, I will be a little more explicit, tho’ I think you cannot be ignorant that I mean Mademoiselle Sanzey.; and as to your
not bearing it, it is a matter of very
little
 .
a >

little consequence to me whether you will or no, as I never make altertions of any kind, that I am not at all times ready to Support
t
Drummond was about to reply in a very high tone, when Lefley interrupted them by saying, he must take the liberty to remind them, they were in the company of ladies. He immediately ceased, and making a most graceful inclination with his head to Lefley, said, ‘‘ I thank you, Mr. Lefley, I was indeed very near forgetting whose company I was in; but I beg pardon of these ladies, and since you have thus kindly recalled us to reason, we will for the present drop the fubjefl.’* He then with infinite address gave the conversation a new turn, and they all contributed their share to Support it; all hwtmyfelf, and indeed, Eliza, lam
B 4
almoll
s:
 OF FRIRNDSHIF
almost ashamed of discovering my weakness even to you; but for Some time I found myself utterly unable to articulate the lead Sentence nor could I recover my spirits sofar as to be tolerably cheerful the whole evening. And yet it was not the idea of ma demoiselle Sanzey, that tormented me, for I lincerly wilh Drummond happy let his choice be where it will; but the fear of these two gentlemen quarrelling. Heaven knows where it will end! As Soon as our visitors left us, we retired to our apartments, but not to rest; not one moment have I Slept all the night. I am diftraeded with different ideas, and know not what measure to take. I dare not tell my father, for that would draw his anger upon Drummond instantly. I wish I could have spoken to Lord Weftbury, he might
perhaps have interfered. I have more
than
 .
9
than once had thoughts of breaking
t
through all the rules of decorum, and writing a card to him to entreat him to prevent their meeting; but Selina begs So pitioufly that I will not engage in the quarrel, that I have given up that Scheme. Selwin has not yet left his room, so hitherto all is Safe,.
When I began this letter I did not intend laying one word on this Subjecf, as I knew it would hurt you; but my pen and thoughts can dwell on no ocher: and now how much'do I widi you were here, for never hill now was your advice io neceiiary to.
Your distreifed Friend,
Julia Hcircourt.
LETTER.

lo
 OF FRIENDSHI?*
LETTER XXXI
Iiord Iffjlhury, to the Rev. Edward.
K
Seymour,
jvejihilry lodgey yune 12.-
Dear Sir,
Take up the pen of my friend, who is unable of himself to make use of it, to inform you in zvhat a moment your lall letter was presented to him.
It appears from the date of it, that it ought long ago to have been in his poiteition; but having been dire dead under cover to my father, he by Some unaccountable neglect did not give it
to
 .
II
to Mr. Drummond hill this morn ing.
You may perhaps have heard from, miss Darnley of a quarrel between Mr.
m
Selwyn and our dear friend; I flattered myself I had put a Hop to their proceeding to any fatal lengths, but the hypocrisy of Mr. Selwyn deceived me, and I thought him satisfied by my accommodation; whilst he Still nourished that, horrid principle, re:? venge..
He contrived to have a ■ note conveyed to Drummond unknown to me; this note, couched dn. the moil insolent terms j demanded immediate satif fadtion An answerwas as Secretly returned, appointing six o’clock on vved nesday morning as the time, and a. close walk in livingston Park as ihc
place.
12  .
place. They were both, I believe, punftiial, and met entirely unattended, each burning with resent
Till this day I have never learned how this affair was conducted. Mr. Drummond has been utterly incapable of giving any account of his own mis fortune, and they had no wkneffes. He awaked about Seven o’clock this morning, calm and Senlible, and has desired me to inform you of all the circumstances he can recollect. He was himself the first on the ground, and when Selwyn arrived a very short distance was marked out. At his desire his enemy fired first, and lodged his ball in the left shoulder of our friend, who fell, and was left in this condition by his cowardly anta onift j who waited not for Ms fire,
but



 OF FR I ENDSHIP.
13
blit made the belt of his way over the park paling, and has not yet been heard of, tho’ I have had people in Search of him in many places.
In this condition remained my poor cousin, till the park keeper, by great
■y
accident, came to the Spot where he lay bleeding. He was still sensible, and requested him to procure Some attiftance, but on no account to alarm the family at the Abbey. The man was true to his orders, and came directly to me with this news. You may be Sure I was not
and with all the help I could muster in
%
So Short a time, few to his Succour. He was entirely infenfibie to pain, or the inconvenience of being moved,
and thocve have h id the betl furrieons
A
the country could afford, they have not, with ail their united fkill y et
traded
V XJU
14
 .
tra6led the ball. But as bis fever is Something abated, I hope all may yet may be well.
It is not above an hour ago I left
O
him, that I might write a letter upon buiiness, and in that time, my father
paid him a visit, and gave him, your
%
letter, alking his forgiveness for having forgot it so long. Would to heaven he had Hill kept it, or given it.
V
to him a week ago! then those excellent admonitions might have prevented the fatal consequences of passion unrestrained by reason. 1 hank. God he has bo: northeast the reading of it better than could be ex C eded, and calls me to tell you, he loves and ho nou. s you more than ever; that it Shall' ' its due weight with him; that he will read it till every word be engraved upon his heart I. it Shall lie .:
upon,

tf
15
%
upon his pillow, and be his constant monitor; and so long as his reason
continues, he will endeavour to recoiled and practice the virtues you inspire.
He wishes to See you, to convince you that his mind stili retains that integrity you own it once polseired; that he lubmits without repining to
the will of providence, whatever are its
*
decrees. Still he is not So calm as before, and his fever Seems inclinable to return. I have much pain in communicating to you this unwelcome intelligence, but it is constantly the lot
of humanity toiuffer for ourselves or others.
I know nothing of the family at Livingdon, never having left the bedside of my friend; love now yields entirely
i6

tirely to ; I think you may
V
poltibly hear of them through miss Darnley.
I have Sent to Sir Henry and Lady Drummond, and told them in the tenderest manner I could, the indif polition of their Son, without hinting at the cause. I tremble at the Scene they have to witness, as I am certain if they are, well they will Soon be here.
I ’will write again the first leisure moment; till then 1 leave you to comment on this fashionable but horrid method of redressing injuries, be they
s
real or imaginary. I remain, with the * utmost resped, dear Sir, your most.. and affectionate,
iveuburv^
\

LETTER
 . FT
LETTER XXXII

V
Lady Julia Harcourts to miss Darnky,
livingjion~abbey, June 14.
The fears I exprdfed to you, my
dear Eliza, at die condulion of my last letter, are all reduced to a dreadful certainty. Drummond, theac complilhed Drummond, is now Ian, guilhing on the bed of licknefs, brought to this deplorable date by the rash hand of Selwyn; and your Julia the cause, tho’ the innocent one, of all this misfortune.
Oh, my friend, you know not how
much I have Suffered! how much I do
%
Suffer..
a ^
a

Suffer. The dehre I have to conceal it from my friends makes it a thousand:
times more
ul to me. It has hitherto
been, and I hope it will ever be my Study, to be the constant cause of pleasure to my amiable parents, but now indeed, the talk is a hard one; labouring as I am under the most poignant anxiety, I cannot even in their presence at all times Support myself. Selina is a great consolation to me; to her I can, with the most uni

bounded confidence, lay open my whole heart; we mingle our tears for • the Sufferings of poor Drummond, and not Seldom Shed a few Sympathising drops, for the distresses of ma demoiselle Sanzey. Oh! Eliza! if
She really loves him, and who can
\
doubt it, how much do I feel for
her?
The

19
The practice of duelling appears to me in So very Shocking and odious a light, that I think it must hurt the feelings of any woman, to have the man, whom above all others. She loves ■and esteems, engaged in an affair of that kind. I will endeavour as much as possible, to collect my Scattered thoughts, and tell you the little, th very little, I know of this horrid affair.
As Soon as I had finished my letter,. Selina and myself went downstairs, perfectly asfured that Selwyn had not left his room; but how much were we surprised, upon making inquiries in
I
the breakfafi; parlour, to find he had been out for above an hour. My fears were then So great that I could not conceal them, and my father instantly observing the change in my countenance.
CZO"  OF FRIENDSHIF.
nance, asked with great earnestness, what could have disturbed me so' much, ” I told him there had been a quarrel the night before between Mr. drummond and Mr. Selwyn, and from the vrarmth of both their tempers, I apprehended the most fatal consequences.
i.
My father Seemed to take the alarm, and was almost as uneasy as myself; but while we were debating what was proper to be done, Selwyn walked into the room, I lost all power over jnyfelf, and running to him Seized hold of his arm, and exclaimed, with the greatest vehemence imaginable, tell me, Selwyn, instantly tell me, where you have left Drummond; and whether you have left him in good health, or fusteilng from yoiir rasti nest.” He stared at me, and with the '
most
 .
C I
sang froid replied,
“.good heavens!
pofllble, that the idea, the mere idea of Mr. drummond’s being in dangej', can have raised these terrible emotions in your bread,; I am happy I can inform you, that your admired friend is well, and will, I make no doubt think himself under great obligations to you, for the anxiety you havefbewn for his welfare.” You may believe I returned to my Seat with no less precipitation than I left it. My father then made dine inquiries if anything further had palfed between them. He said they had met, but that Lord Weftbury, who was indeed .an excellent young man, had conciliated matters, and he believed they were tolerably Satisfied. My father then read a long harangue on duelling, .rafhness, cc. which I
ana
22
 .
am Sorry to Say, had little effe£l upon.
iiim.
After breakfast the Lelleys left us. We Spent the day without company; Selwyn was apparently in better Spirits and better temper than he had been for Some time past. When we arose the next morning, we were not at all surprised to hear he had been gone out to ride for two or three hours; it was not an unusual thing with him to Spend his mornings in that manner, and we were all lulled into Such a peaceful Security, that I dare say there was not one of us had the lead appreheniion of what was to follow.
When we were altembled in the drawing-room before dinner, expect * Mr. selwyn’s arrival, a Servant
brought
 .
23
Lrouglit a note to my father, it V ’as •nearly in the following words:
Mr. Drummond and myself have
.0
V W
fought, he is wounded, I bell dangerously;; this reaches you I Shall be on my way to the continent; all pursuit will be in vain. Allow me to return thanks to you, my Lord, for your repeated a6ts of civility to me. The amiable Lady St. Clair likewisc requires my warmest acknowledge •
Tell Lady Julia, it is 011 her account alone that I am banished from .my country for ever.
George Selwyn.”
To my Eliza I need not endeavour
» ' •
to paint my feelings at that moment; you will readily believe the painful sensations that at once assailed me, and In an inllant discovered to me the whole melancholy Scene in its moll
dismal
24
W reath OT .

dismal colours. My Sorrows at that time were not of long continuance, for my father had scarce finished the reading of his billet, when I sunk fenfe less into my chair. The kind assistance of my friends in a Short time restored me to my recollection, but not ■to tranquillity; nor can I ever know one moment’s peace till Drummond is pronounced out of danger. Oh! my Eliza! how have a few Short hours ruined the Smiling prospe£ts of your friend? how many flattering Scenes of future bliss had I formed in rny Sanguine imagination, that are now forever obliterated! I see the servant returning, who has been making an inquiry after Mr. drummond’s health this morning. May we receive a favourable account! I will not conclude my letter till I have heard it; and may you, my Eliza, never feel the agitation
that

 OF frlil^dshl?.
that labours in my breast at this
moment.
miss Comdne) in contlnuafion.
f
My poor julia’s diftress has rendered her altogether unfit to add one
»
Word more. 1 have therefore under
%
to conclude and send away her letter; but how Sorry ami to give you
v
So much pain, my dear miss Darntey, as to inform you Mr. drummond.is much worse this morning, and his fever higher than ever it has been.
Sir Henry and Lady Drummond are arrived, and - the Physicians have scarce a hope remaining. The Servant says he never Saw such a seen of diftress; there is not a creature in the house that can Speak without tears.
Vol. IL
C
Drummond
/
A
f
i6
 .
Drummond is universally beloved; he certainly has, under his volatile appearance, more benevolence and good-humour than is generally to be met with. I cannot however acquit him in this affair, he certainly has not behaved with honour; there can be mo doubt of his engagement to.mademoiselle san zey, and yet, jfvu and J both agreed when you were here (and it has been much more visible since) that his attachment appeared to be very strong for Lady Julia.
Poor girl! what will become of her? She is just now reclined upon a sopha by me, languid and motionless, without the least appearance of existence, were it not for the big tears that roll incessantly down her pallid cheeks.
. She is so much afraid that Lord and Lady St. Clair, or indeed any one
Should
 OF FRIENDSHIF t.f
flionld discover her love for Drurn
mond, that it is only when we arc alone she will give a full teope to her grief; and I am sure the concealment hurts her. How often in the hour of did refs has she Soothed my affliction, and yet how unequal do I find myself to administer the same consolation in return.
r'
S
I have received your friendly letter, my dear miss Darnley; it Should not have been so long unnoticed, had not this unhappy affair taken possession of my whole heart. I find there is not a more effectual way to banish our own reflections than to share in the distress
of a friend. But no time or circum
»
can ever make me forget with
O
how much sincerity I am your truly affectionate friend,
Selina Courtney.
C WETTER
^8 •  OF ^FRIEKDSHIP

L E T T E R XXRIII.
h%cv .edwardseymour^to Lord.wefthury
fvansford, yane 14.
Received your lordihip’s letter, and
am
the dreadful account you give me of my poor friend. I would instantly fly to offer every assistance in my power, were I not convinced that my attempts are entirely unnecessary, as he is particularly fortunate in the attention of So kind a friend as your Lordship. You will excuse me for adding, that I
have long from character had a high
/
esteem for your Lordship; and your
/
attachment to poor Drummond proves the goodness of your heart. His many amiable qualities mull endear Iiim to
all
 .
29
all who know him. You have promised, my Lord, to write to me again; on that hope I rnull endeavour to rest Satisfied with my distance
The friendftiip which subsifts between us has been uninterrupted and steady for many years; we were Schoolfellows and play fellows from our earliest days. With how much tender ness I love him my agonising feelings at this moment can witness
You regret, my Lord, that your father gave him my letter at such a time; but I have a ftilldeeper fourep of Sorrow; that letter Should have been written many weeks sooner. I have been acquainted with his growing affection for Lady Julia Harcout from the first moment he Saw her, and was not ignorant ofhis engagement abroad;
c3
I

 OF FRIENDSHIF^
I have had many proofs of the influence I have overhimj how dreadfultheh must my refle6tions be, when by one word spoken in time, I might have preserved a dear friend from a crime of fb black a dye, and perhaps from the grave. That thought, my Lord, carries w ith it a torture more severe than I can well bear
miss Darnley has had no letter yet from Lady Julia; I have not informed her of this dreadful accident, as it might alarm her for her friend, who I greatly fear will fuifer violently on this occasion. I am not sorry Selwyn escaped your lordfhip*s search. Is he not a relation of Lady Julia, and would not any disgrace which he might have Suffered have fallen hard on the worthy Lord St. Clair? selwyn’s crimes are of so dark a nature that they mull for ever
destroy
r

rt \
destroy his peace, and banish tranquillity from his breast. I am in Such real affliction, that your Lordihip mull' excuse the incoherence of my ^ ideas.; -
I have only to beg your gcodhess in writing to me Such accounts of my friend’s situation as may Occur, which I (hall always acknowledge as the highest obligation
I am, ce.
Sevmour,
g4
isetter
wrejlcth OF FRIENBSHT?
L E T T E R XXXIV
iirv, to'the Rev. E. Seymottr.
wejihuryrldgii me 15*.
My Lear Sir,
Take the very firli opportunity of performing the promise I made ta you in my lafb letter. Sincerely do I wish that it was in my power to give a more favourable account of Mr. Drummond, than I am now able; but fine that time we have beea constantly,, with very frightful fymptomsi^ id tho’ for the lad twenty-four hours fia has slept a good deal, yet very faint are our hopes. Tho’ naturally ancuned p look on the bright fide, the picture before me so very dark, that
i
 .
<9
I am now no longer sanguine; and I find fortitude is much easier in theory than practice. Sir Henry and Lady Drummond came as I cxpeded on the wings of fear and impatience, and arrived here two days ago They both appear to poitess So much resignation, and unaffected piety, that they bore V the narrative I had prepared for them better than I expededi h Lady Drummond Showed Some marks’ of impa tience on. being; told She could not
O
then see her Son, whose agitation was at that time so great that I was afraid, the interview might injure both...


I
it’was always my ■ intention to conceal
from them
e
drummond s dllness; I thought this little piece of deceit allowable, (if
deceit can ever be So) but my father.

who
34
 .
who is not always to be controlled, and who does not See events in the light f do, by hints, ( which I in vain endeavoured to wave) gave them to undeifland, that moj^ remained to be told; and I found it impolhble ' longer to keep the Secret. Now im deed they Suffered! and I am Sure they bould not have experienced a greater Ihock, had they vvitneffed his dissolution. They have So just an abhorrence to this mode cs revenging in ^ fulls, that did not in this case the crime carry along with it the punishment, their censure of their son’s conduct would be very Severe; but ten derness takes the lead of every othcr feeling.
I found it best to attend Lady Drummond to the flck room, as Soon as I could hear that all was quiet. I
altifted
 . 3, 5
assisted her, with trembling steps, to ascend the flairs; at the door of the apartment she flopped and Said, “let me here try to gain a little resoliition before I encounter this awful Scene; assist me, kind heaven, as thou hast ever done; and pardon me if I fhbuld breathe a repining sigh j’r aftef a pause fly added, “I Submit to thyi will." We entered the room,! gently theiv aside the; curtain, ..Drummond raised his - languid eyes, but hastily telofed them again, and ■ his face with his hand, cried, ‘‘charles! what is that phantom thou leaded to me I kiiow it, It is rosaualcbme ito upbraid me with her wrongs. ' See! See'! what angry glances die darts; on 'her aithless.lover! Shield me rfi om those piercing looks, -, and tell her ifi live 1 will dill be her’s, whatever may. be the consequence.


V
■
♦
•s.
jt A

ri


a
 OP ferintshif.
.
N
Lady Drummond at my request retired to another part of the room in agonies inexpressible; I returned to sooth my friend. I grasped his hand, and sensible of the prelsure, he Said, cruel Charles why affli£i me now with: the presence of one I dare not think ofi assured him it was not. Rofalia, that it was his fond,, his ate fedionate mother, come to admini fterhealth and comfort. ‘^my Mother! what a light for her! but where is She?; come my dear parent, and bless your,
fon. Tell him that yovf forgive him, though there are in the world who will not say So, tho’ he bleeds before them.’^ His head leaned
■wpon her bosom; her tears fell upon *;.
/
his face; but he was once more, in -- sensible to Sorrow.
unw
 . 37'
r
Lady Drummond has Sat by him night and day. He often raves of rosalia, and Sometimes in a whispec calls on Lady Julia but as if fearfuh of being heard. This is the state we: are in at present. We are certain of your pity, and also of your prayers. You Shall hear from me again the first moment of a change. Believe me your. ^tfiliited, but very sincerely

lii.

f •
L L T T E R
Mrs, Scutiamore, to miss Darnley,
Madras. March
HO’ I wrote to you only a few days agoj my seliza, yet as J kad an opportunity offending you tkc
inciofcd
38

iiiciosed I was determined not to losc it. In looking over Some papers I found a copy of a letter Sent by Mr. Scudamore to his brother; as I am Sure the story and the singularity of the events will amuse a Speculative mind like your’s, I will make no .apology for wi iting So Short a letter, which I have not now time to enlarge. Mr. man deville left India last Summer, and you will agree with me he deserves to
be happy.
your’s, ever.
D.
Licnel Scudamore Esq. to
Esq.
Madras
9
HER E are some circumstances in liiiraan life which have So
nudi the appearange pf qhaiice, that
in
 .
39
in that word of no meamng men are apt to overlook the influence of a Superior power. That I have Some reason for making this observation you Shall yourself be a judge; when I relate an event, which, without the interpofi lion of a friendly arm, might. have proved fatal to me..
A few days ago 1 h^d occasion to pafs near the company’s garden. My business had detained me' longer than 1 expected, So that by the time 1 reached that placey night had come on with more than ordinary darkness; which was rendered still more dismal, by? a thicket thro’ which I was. to pafs. In the midst of this Solitude I was travelling leisurely forward and indulging an i agreeable melancholy which Such Scenes Seldom fail to inspire; my meditations were Soon interrupted
40
 .
rupted by Something rulliing from the wood; and before I had time to discover the cause, I felt a blow upon my temple which brought me to the ground.
How long I continued in this situation I am unable to say. When my senses returned I found myself Seated on the ground. Surrounded by Several
f
people with lanterns; one'., of whom tho’ Irimfelf wounded, Seemed parti: : solicitous for my recovery. By the care and assistance of these good people I was removed to a neighbouring house, and a Surgeon Sent for, who pronounced my cafe, tho’ dangerous, not mortal; for, besides the blow which had deprived meof my senses, < I discovered a wound in ‘ myf* fide; to prevent apy alarming apprehenfidns in my wife, 1 had recoliedion enough to
1.

 OF TRIENDSHIP
42
dispatch a Servant to inform her that business detained me a day longer in the country; and before the conclusion of the next day, I found myself able to return home, tho’ not quite well, yet, with fewer Symptoms of danger than at first I had reason to expect. „
The perlon 1 have mentioned n^ver left my bed iide during the remainder' of the night; and I found it vasto his courage and the Siren gth of his arni that I owed my life. As he approached the centre of the wood, he told me, that he heard a noise, and a voice calling out with Some violence
kill
him.’* Being arrried with pistols, he proceeded forward to rescue the person that was attacked, and tho’ too late to prevent the first blow, yet he arrived in time to frustrate their liorrid
intentions.
< ii
/
/»

C
41  .
iritehtions. One of the affallins was wounded and fell; the" other made his
cscape. By the former we were informed that they had miltehen their object;; ' to me was no Small satisfaction' ' I knew not that there was a person in the world whom ■ I had fd far injured as that he Should wilh to take my life Plunder did not Seem to be their motive, but the foie object of ' their intention was a principle of revenge. A countryman of ovir’sj (I wilh d could add that there were not’many such)) risen to great power and riches by the moil' infamous acts of violence and oppref fionv a combination of unhappy natives had agreed to take him off the opportunity. These two were deputed’ for that purpose; but either from false information, or the darkness of the night, the innocent, for such I
will
 .
4$
/
will venture to call myself, the punishment of the guilty
fuffei'cd
V
, however, was only a prelude
V
to an agreeable discovery. Towards the morning the ft ranger left me, that he might himself take a little repose.' In the mean time I rose and drefledy and as he entered tlse room again, at the same instant that I exclaimed “mandeville!he, with no less wonder and Surprise, repeated Scudamore 1” In Short, we found in each
other the person of a schoolfellow. I
*
cannot describe, the pleasure this discovery produced in us both. My feelings almost overcame me when I be held my friend in the person of my deliverer. Nor was he less sensibly affected, when he found that the man his humanity had Saved, had been the companion of his ygunger years, the
partner
44
wreaxrrof .
partner of Ills youthful cares and. amusements. After our mutual afto -- nishment had subsided a little, it wast natural that we Should \?ilh to be acquainted with each other’s history.. particularly with those circum ^ fiances which had brought us., together in So d iflant a quarter. of • the globe. It did' not take up much' time
s
to relate the events olmy life There was nothing remarkable in them, and therefore my narrative Soon gave place to one from which I expected greater
variety.
iiie Phijlory of Man deville.
The life of man, ( began my friend) presents us a checquered seen. Sometimes all is gay, and we proceed rapidly forward without thought and without refiedions. Sometimes
#REATM OP .
45
times a dark cloud over ihadows our
prospeds, and then we are Sunk into
* ^
teii"fold darkness. This may appear a very pompous introduction to a simple Story, but believe me I have had the greatest reason to extrad wisdomfrom
O
the various circumstances of my life; and if 1 have not yet found it, it must be attributed more to my own insen ability, than the opportunities of instruction which have been afforded me.
Sweet are the uses of adverlity, ” says the poet of nature, therefore I am not without hopes that the time will tome, when I Shall refleo;, even with Some degree of pleasure, that I have been once rniferable.’^
When you firll knew me, you may remember that I was the apparent heir of a very handsome fortune; that my company was courted by many of
4^  .
my schoolfellows;; even that our old and worthy mailer regarded me with Some degree of attention, I was not infenlible to these circumllances, which is evident from my recalling them at this time to your memory. Then indeed I was happy; but it was the happiness of one who knew not that misery existed in the world. Here our friendlliip, Mr. Scudamore, commenced; for here 1 remember that we singled each other out, as a partner at play, or as an assistant in our talks. About the time that I was to have been admitted at the university, my father died, and this opened, perhaps the mod distressful seen that human nature can conceive. He left my mother, who had been educated in all the elegancies of life, and six children, myself the eldest, without a farthing in the world, His fine estate,
the
 OP . 47
the care and protection of a long race •of ancestors, was sold for the payment of his debts; and nothing was reserved but a cottage in a distant county, (the bounty indeed, it was, of a humane creditor) where my mother, with such parsimony as she was able, might bring up such of her children as were yet infants.”
In this cafe, what was my re iburce? I had no money to put me
am
s
not many friends, for all my father’s friends, were fiends only to his /or tums. One exception indeed I Should make, the mlnifer of, the parish, though poor, was hospitable. He had re ceived his little living from my father’s hands, and in this hour of my necef iky, he forgot not that I was hls (on. Indeed he was a true christian; and

those
4^ OF .
%
those gleams of happiness which I have since occasionally met with, I Owe entirely to his instructions. He took the opportunity of my Sorrows to instil principles of true religion, H told me upon what motives I mull bear my misfortunes, to whatt end they were given, and whose improvement was intended by them. In Short, his ieffons were useful without being im pertinent; they were pious without any degree of aufterity.’’
. V
In the parsonage of this good man I continued some months, without coming to any determination for my future life. At length I wa ih i
formed that a noble lord wanted aussi
..1
vate fecietary, a young man of liberal education, and a traclable disposition, My good old friend flattered me with saying that I should fill this place
with
 . 4,
with credit, and had no doubt but I Should Soon rise to riches and honour. In a diort time I prepared to take pos
lesion of my Splendid expedations.
%
My worthy friend parted with me with no Small emotion. He followed me to the door, and bellowed his lall
benediction on me.
The tears
trickled down his cheeks; and his lad words were remember that you are a chridian, and hold your integrity.” My own tears flowed so that I could hardly take a faiwell look of the good old man, and hds humble dwelling, buried in wcodbine and holly.”

My journey to the metropolis was Soon accomplidied, and I was Soon placed in a mansion where there was more Splendour than happiness, more confuhon than entertainment.
Vol. II
D
1
50  .
0

I entered immediately upon my new empioynient, and was not Sorry to .find, thatmy Scene, of action was an, elegant library, furnished vyitli a large colledlion of well decorated books. ‘fhere, Mandeville, Said, my noble patron, is the place where you will ‘fbe principally employed. Here,;.! ^cspendall my mornings amidst an cient, philosophers, and those amia ‘sble moderns who have dared to combat prejudice by a freedom of thought. Here I will didlate to you my letters of correspondence, and “jnfirudf you .in tfiose principles ‘‘. which are the greatest ornaments of 'human reason He would probably have proceeded further, but we were inteitup)ted; by a tall thin „figure, in a coat buttoned close around him., which had once been black; his face was lengthened, his nose : hooked, and
his
■WR'EATH OF .
Ills eyes Ihafp and penetrating, at the Same time expressive of a Ibpercilious contempt. In Short, after a few minutes conversation between this Spare Philosopher and my Lord, I disco -- vered that he was one of those illusi

trious moderns, who, with the mod amiable liberty of thought, combated
I
the long established opinions of mankind, and endeavoured, upon the ruins of every virtuous principle, tered his own System of infidelity.


‘‘ How shocked was I to find th these were my patron’s Sentiments, and that, like othert*^^ philosophers,, it was his greatest: pleasure to make new converts to his doctrines. At this moment I recollected the admonitions of my venerable friend, when I left the Ijappy parsonage : and resolved, before


52
 .
fore I Suffered one Sceptical idea to take root in my mind, to examine the foundation of everything I had been taught to believe. The Splendid li brary of the noble .lord afforded few assistances to this purpose, Hume, Bolingbroke,
with a long train of well
bouncfehilofophers, filled the Shelves; i^cxceptithat now and then I met with an old clajjical friend to relieve me from absolute despair. As my time, however, was not altogether occupied by my attendance on, his Lordship, I found Sufficient opportunity to pursue my studies. The. evening of every day his Lordship Spent from home. Lfhould have informed you that our household did not consist of many persons, behdes the Servants. His wife had been dead Several years, and left him no heirs to his possessions, except A very amiable as well as beautiful
daughter.
 . 53
/
daughter, at this time entering her nineteenth year. The househoid was dire: ed by a maiden lister of his lord ihip, as respedtable for her dispolitiorv as Ihe was for her rank and years. My Lord, however, tho’ a good Philosopher, was neither a good father nor a good brother I and, as you will find in the Sequel, by no means, a good mailer.


‘‘A fit of the gout confined him to his house, and as the malady was in his hand, it deprived him of the use of his pen. He was. therefore obliged to employ me in a correspondence, which informed me that his evening
lucubrations were not of the moll vir
*
nature. Thisfirft attempt I Submitted to with a sort of Smothered indignation; but when he requested me to conduct his lady privately to his
u 3
house
54
 OF FRI £ NDSHI
house, I revolted at the propoiitioii,, and happening at that momentuo call a slight reflection: on his philosophical.. his anger rose to the most; uncontronled pitch, and I Soon Sound liiat I had iost his. patronage and protediohc’''
‘d Should now have been contented' to depart, but for a thought ( and it, liad never been more than a thought )■ that 1 Ihouid leave behind the amiable and accomplillied Lady Catharine. 1 had not presumed to look So high; for an object of my affedions. I durft not indulge the most distant reflection on the subject; and I believe I would iboner have died than have declared the cause of my distress. I was not, however, ignorant, that I had some small interest in the breast of this young lady.there are a thousand ways
, of

55
of deceiving one’s own heart. We
had often read elegant authors toge? iher, and our ways of thinking seemed, Without our being sensiblc of it, always to coincide. 1 frequently read amus ing books to the old lady in an evening, and would Sometimes have found my attention riveted by the refined observations of her niece, These were pleasures, Mr. Scudamore, difficult to be parted with, * yet these I had resolved to leave. Tho’ my patron had exacfted a cruel Service, I could not repay his former kindneffies with ingratitude. I was poor indeed, but I resolved to be honest” ”
one of our usual evening parties,! accidentally dropped a hint ofmy intention to quit my present situation, and I believe, I might add, that I should leave all happiness behind m.
D 4
Imagine
A
7
¥
1 i
LI
1! .1
I
ij
i •
!;

ril\
(It
iii!

!!
it
ill
'H
\
dll
; Pi
III
yo
 .
Imagine my Surprise, when my amiable
young lady changed colour, and
fainted instantly in my arms. The
old lady and myself were, greatly
alarmed by this Sudden indispoiidon.
She was, however. Soon recovered
Some remote cause was sought for as
an excuse for her illness; and we retired
to our Several apartments. What
was my agitation on returning to my
chamber! The discovery was wonderful
; and I threw myself on the bed
in an agony of perplexity. I resolved
at once to leave the house; but then

to leave the object of my tendereit
: 7affion! Various were the tumults of
my Soul, After three hours of theur
most anxiety I became more calm.
and at length determi. .ed to abide by
my first resolution. My Small portion
of movables I collected together, and
then, as my last Sacrifice, ( the only
step

IV'REATH OF . S’"}
Step upon cool refledlion I have repented of) disclosed my whole Soul to her
V
whom I had not dared to think of but
»-
with the moll distant admiration. This I did for the sake of explaining my Sudden dis appearance; but at tbue same time allured her, that in all probability this was the last time die would
ever hear of me.”
About daybreak in the morning I left my chamber; it was not uncommon for me to take an early walk, and therefore my intention was not suspected by the Servants. The month was May, and my Steps were involuntarily led towards the fields. • I wandered from one village to another,, torpid, as it were with grief, not knowing, or at lead, not caring where I went. Fatigue at length got the better of my Sorrow; I Sunk upon the
u 5
croimd
■ V
5«
weeatfr OF
ground at the entrance of a wood, aild' remained, as I imagine, for sometime ima state of infensibility, On coming ^ myself.i found a wood man ftand mg by me; he had a bill in his hand,
'V ^
and a bundle of faggots on his Shoulder; he was returning home after his:
Ik
daily labour. Compassion had seized the poor creature, and he was aftuatly weeping over my seeming torments. I immediately hailed this token of hu
and as I greatly wanted a
lodging for. the, night, questioned
A ^
about the place of his abode. His
/
good nature was equal to his compaf sion; I accompanied him to his cot tage, and accepted a portion of the fc^nty meal, the wife had prepared for her husband. I' retired to an upper chamber, but not to rest! Here I had" time for reflection. A few hours had' removed me .from a palace, to a very
htimbk;
r

59
humble cottage; from an affluent, though dependent Situation, to all the appearance of poverty, and all the expectation of diftress. Yet with all this I had
not let
p my integrity. This thought
/
by degrees quieted'the perturbations of my mind; and hope "Seemed to' Smile upon me. the rifino; fun be'
X O
gan to tinge the tops, of’the highefb oaks, dumber seemed willing to me. This refredied my body, and' the train ofrededtions that I had'fallen' into before I dept, caused me to awake ' in the moult agreeable tranquillity.;. I; continued in this
week, undetermined ' wlidt ' paths I diouid plirsue. In the daytime I wandered thro’ the woods, attending to the Songs of the feathered tribe, occasionally interrupted by the strokes of the woodmanaxe; in the evenins; s X watched the ridng of the moon and,
retired
cottage' above a

A,
• \ t'
I
M
LI
h
u
11
II
n
, ‘l!
'. • lilt
ii.
i
1
LI
II
M;
II
1
lit
!i
I
! r
1)
1 : j

i
6o
 OF FR I'EN D3H I P
o..
retired well contented to my coarse,
hut hospitable entertainment.”
At length, however, I resolved to
leave my retirement. My hold and
hoftess were Sorry to part with their
visitor, and I yet • polieffed more
than Sufficient to ■ purchase their
gratitude, if more noble motives
had failed.
My lirst lodging irt
town was near the Royal Exchange;
as I carefully Shunned tliose places
where it was possible I might have
been known. Every day I vifite4:
this great resort of the m e'chants of alt
% /
nations. I remarked the countenances.
and made refledions on the outward..
appearances of those I Saw there. This
was only. amusement The greater
%
part were too much engaged to regard
me, as I had neither a thip to put in
commission, or a bargain that was
worth attending to.

A

r
6 r
‘‘A Stranger in the midst of thousands, r knew not what course to piirsue. My education prevented me from appl)dng myself to menial Services; and none were ready to employ a person in a; more reputable station, who could not give a better account of himseif. I will not trouble you with the many mortifications I received, nor the diftrels ta which I was driven. My money was
N
exhausted and I had no friends; once i was in prison, but delivered, as my debt was very Small, by the humanity of a stranger. My last employment in England was as a writer to the book..

sellers. For thispurpose I changed my lodgings to pater nofter row. Sometimes I wrote political pamphlets, and
N
Sometimes Sermons; Sometimes I translated from the French, and Sometimes compiled from the dallies. As my employmencwas innocent, (for I never
profi
!
': I
1
! ■

f i
r!
1
i,
11
■ i
: f
IV
o

€
 .
profliituted my pen to unworthy pur pcfes) I was. contented.’'’
One day pading thro’ the india house I met a gentleman whom I re
%
well at my father’s table; he did not See me but palled along. I'he porter of the house informed me he was a clire6lor. As my road sometimes lay this way 1 met him again, and caught his eye. After a civil salutation from him, he alked me feverai Cjueflions about my family, and particularly about my present situation. My story I told him was long, and that mv htaaiidn was far from comfortable.' He t ook no notice, but deli red me at the distance of a week to call at his house. and believe me, Scudamore, this generous friend, without any soli
citadon, presented me at my first, en
tranc



^3
trance into his apartment, with a very lucrative appointment in India. Need I add more! you See me hei e; and providence has been So kind as to permit me to Save your life'
Since I arrived here everything -
prospered with me; my fortune is ?ven larger than mv willies. I
HOW
have remitted enough to place my mother in an eligible situation;; edu eate the rest of my family. This is the true life of riches! As for Lady Catharine, often: do I ligh when 1 remember her, and many a tear do I drop upon her picture. But come, Scudamore, I long to be introduced to your wife. You are now, I hope, able to travel; and we ftiould not prolong any unea finess that your absence may have ©ccafioned.’’

*■
6a  .
Thus Mandevilie concluded his narrative with an irresifhble grace, He Seems to be a credit to the fortune he has acauired; and wants nothing
Jl O
but his amiable Lady Catharine to make, him Completely happy.
I
your’s, c.
ijonel Scudamore
LETTER

 . 6^
L E T T E R XXXVI
Lord Vrijihury, to the Rev. Edward
t
4
Seymour,
Wejibury lodge, June'xli
UR hopes of Mr. Drummond
recovery have been So flu6luating for Some days past, that I deferred writing to you, my dear Sir, ’till I could at least give you a decisve account; a bad one you were prepared for, and I was certain you would readily bear a little anxiety to have it dis fipated by good news at last. I have now the pleasure to inform you, that we have every reason to expect a happy termination to our diftress. The surgeons have at length been so fuc
eessful as to extract the ball, .and they
\ -
now
1
IV
t.
H
r ♦
\ t
I
66
wri'a'th OF FRIENDSIMP.

now tell us that time will restore' our friend, who tho’ as weak as possible is Senlible and without fever; and chat there is no doubt but that a continuance of quietness and attention xvilh
1 ^
not only reinstate him in health, but. tranquillity. This subje£t occupies both my pen and thoughts, and leaves me no time to thank you as! ought for your very obliging and friendly letter; but your candour william Sure, excuse at this time any negleff, but that of our dear Henry, who hasjuftfent to desire, to seem
your obedient servant,
LETTER.
T.
.<. -. * •
•
 .
6r
'L E. T T E R XXXVII
/
Lady Julia Harcourtf to Miss Darnlby*
Lwingjion abbey, June 23,
HAT real pleasure it is, to have a friend, like my Eliza, to whom, r can with equal confidence unbosom my grief, and impart my joy. Drummond is recovering! I wifii i could make you fensible of the exquisite Satisfaflion those three words have the power of conveying to the bread: of your Julia. He will live and be happy, and 1 Shall not have the con tinual pain of rellecling, that it was perhaps my levity and indiscretion that brought one of the moil amiable of his Sex to an untimely grave! that
plunged
 .
plunged his parents into the deepest misery; or baniihed for ever from his country a person, whom my father had received into his house under the title of friend. Thank Heaven! I am' now relieved from these dreadful ideas; and I hope I Shall be ever grateful for so great a blessing. Ever since my father returned from Lord mording ton’s last night, and informed us that Drummond was now thought entirely out of danger, I have felt so happy, so tranquil, and contented, that it appears as if I had Ihaken off everything that was mortal about me, and was quite transformed, into an aerial being.
But I am afraid this agreeable enchantment will not long continue, for I have just now received a visit from Lord Weftbury, which will, in the end, I doubt, be produfhve of Some
uneasiness:
 .
69
unealiness; and will, after all, convince me that I am Still an inhabitant of this nether world. My mother and Selina, according to my mother’s usual custom, went this morning a round of visits amongst the cottagers; my father was following his usual occupations of planting and improving his estate; ind poor I remained alone in my dres ling room; that room which for So many weeks past has been the continual scene of mirth and feftivitv. The ftillness of every object around me, joined to the recolledlion of the changes that had happened in so Short a time in our little Society, naturally threw me into a train of reflection, which would
I believe have continued for Some
>
itime^ ’had not my reverie been inter -- rupted by the entrance of Lord west ■bury. After the usual compliments were palfed, and he had given me a
satisfactory

‘7 O VV R E A T H OF FRIE N D S HIP,
I
1
iatissaclory account of the health of hh
cousin, he took a seat by me. He
can never be ungraceful, and yet I
thought I perceived something embarrassed

in his manner which I had
never before observed“ “am come,
Lady Julia, Said he, after a Short pause,
upon one of the moll, unpleasant em
baffies I was ever before engaged in;
I am requested by my father to wait
upon you, and beg your acceptance of
my hand and fortune I rose from my
r
seat with great deliberation, and ma
11
king one of my very bell curtlies, “I
(
•return you a great many thanks, my
‘ I
Lord, dor your civility; and So one of
the moil unpleasant embassies you were
ever engaged in, is to beg my acceptance
of your hand and fortune; very
gallant indeed!” He Smiled and took
my hand, I have at lead: one fatis
I i
Ladion, Lady Julia, in finding you
!
! I
 .
I
stili retain your vivacity; from though paleness and dejedti on osyour looks at my first entrance, I was apprehensive your charming Spirits iiad quite for iaken you.” I was vexed at theinsm

f
ation; don’t be alarmed, my Lord, Said i, on that account, I flatter myself I have dill spirits'.enough : left t make a figure as your .wife; quite as much as you will think agreeable, or I am much miftakeni will not lie mnder the imputation of having said •an uncivil; thing to you, my amiable ■'friend, Said he,; I think any man might esteem himself particularly fortunate, • who could be So happy as to engage the affections of Lady Julia Harcourt ■who had a heart ta offer in return j I believe you are not ignorant of my unalterable attachment to your friend, miss Courtney; rny love for her is so interwoven with my existence, that I
firmly
4-
.72

‘! firmly believe it can end but with my
iise; with Such feelings how can I
with any tolerable composure, even
to oblige a parent, offer my hand to
any other woman.”
“Now, my Lord, I can with sincerity thank you for your ingenu iousness, : I did indeed know your at
y o' ' J
tachment to Selina before, but it gives me an additional pleasure to find that
you really esteem me worthy the title
%
of your frierld, by allowing me a place
in your confidence. Let us now consult
what is bed to be done' in this af
ir, for our mutual happiness. Shall
I'openly decline the offer of your hand?
♦
or what other method can
we
fix
upon that is mod likely to appease Lord Mordington.” My charming, my amiable Julia, exclaimed he, ihow shall 1 express my admiration of
your
 fklendsrilf*. 7j
ybur conduct j you are willing to draw
t
down the displealure of all parties upon
yourself, to promote the hap^iiness'
,)
5f 5’our friends. But I am afraid, after all, nothing that we can do will be of
- i
any Service to appcafe, as you say, my
I
father; he is vidlent in his difike Selina, I know not for what reason. I have coniidcred and rr confidered the fuhjecl:, and could think of no other method to make him alter his opinionj, but by a private marriage; that, your friend has from a motive of delicacy; absolutely refused, anel yet I am not withoutiiope, that time and impoitu« nity may tempt her to become more fivourable to my willies. I am confident, would file give me leave to introduce
her to lordmordington, as his daughter, he would in a Snort time be as proud of her under that title.
Vok IL
E


; <6. ■-■ C

, 74
 OF P R I E KBSH 1 P
as he is now Solicitious She Should
never become So.
})
Before I had time to. reply, my
father entered the room; he seemed
So mightily pleased with the party he
^ met with, that I was qmte convinced
this had been a preconcerted Scheme
between the two old gentlemen the
night before. Lord Weftbury sat a
short time, and then took his leave,
firmly believing I am persuaded that I
would entreat Selina to run away with
him. I cannot say I concur with him
in opinion of that being the moll like
%
way to reconcile Lord Mordington.
¥
But love has the povver of blinding the
moil Sensible of his votaries. In any
aether cafe I dont think those would be
• * * ’
the Sentiments of Lord Weftbury. I
have not time to add more, than with
 .
Low much Iincerity I am, my dear eliza’s ever alfedionate^
Julia Harcourt.
.
LETTER XXXVIII
Mrs. Scudamore, to miss Darnlej.
madrasy April I Oi
N the course of three weeks, my dearest Eliza, we Shall leave India; in three or four months (long tedious .months they will Seem to me) I trull 1 Shall once more revilit En gland, and the Beloved friends it contains. Safe arrived there with my husband, that Spot will be the centre of all my desires; and the pleasure I anticipate on that
E 2
occahon
il
76
 .
"occasion adds to my impatience to ■undertake the voyage, which I now do with eagerness and without fear; and; my Spirits are f good, that I flatter myself I shall not experience that un ‘.easiness usual in a long voyage.
Everything now looks with So Smiling a Sace, that I Sorget all my diftress; for diftressj Eliza, I have lately ex perienced in a Severe degree. Lionel lias been ill, dangerously ill, in a violent Sever, occasioned by a blow he received; and I had every reason to •dread, that widowed and forlorn I mould have to return to a country which without his presence would have lost all its charms. But I thank heaven, his health is restored, and he is now busy in preparing for our departure, with alacrity and pleasure, not inferior ‘ to what I feel. I .am perfectly fensiblc
that
r!
/
 .
77
that living here in the Style we have done has been as disagreeable to him as to me: and that the deli re of ac qniring a fortune fuffi’eient to place me in affluence, has been the foie realbn of sacrificing so many of his beft|years. Ah, little did he know how Soon my wiihes were gratified, and that a Small, a very Small fortune, was adc~ quate to every convenience and every luxury I could require; but as this time is almost elapsed I will not now lament it. However we had passed -

it, it would now have been over; and. the recolleflion of it alone would have remained. We are now furnished 'With the means of benevolence and
t
the power of being useful to our fellow creatures; may we prove just Stewards of the talent committed to our care, and may we not follow the example of'
E 3
those
7

wreakthof .
those Selhlli mortals who live for them Selves alone 1
It Surely is not the bufiness ofaratio nal being, or ansvvering the end of our creation, to be continually wandering about in Search of amusement; the poor and the miserable have a claim upon us for much, perhaps even alhhai we Spend in folly anddif fipation; but I believe it is possible to comply moderately with the customs of that world in which we live, without being hurried away by the torrent. Mr. Scudamore and myself have laid down a plan in theory we mean Soon to put in practice, you can inform us whether it is chimerical or no? but the xdeais pleasing; and therefore we do not relinqililh it till we have given it a fair trial. We mean to purchase an estate at a considerable distance from the
metropolis.
  79
metropolis, and where its baneful instu cnce lias not yet reached, if such a place clin he found, there, in the midst of our tenants and dependants we will strive to be the means of good to all. Not by a mistaken liberality or indulgence, but by instrucling them in agriculture, economy, and the way, not to wealth, but to independence; which is only to be gained by industry and purity of manners. You will tell us that we have ourselves Some of those arts yet to learn! very true, but can we Spend our time better than in studying those Sciences which will be useful to us also, and which contain even in the most trivial sense a ‘‘ fund of entertainment!” By setting them an example of religion and virtue, we hope to prove to them and their children, its utility; and by So doing, lay a foundation vvhich the accidental influ
J
E 4. ence
8o
 .
encc of vice may not be able to overturn. these are our day dreams when Separate, and our conversation when
Neither Mr. Scudamore
too; etlier.
'O
nor mysels are fond of living in the great world; and we hope to find kour^ thus employed never bang heavy n our hands.
nn
t

1
IS
I
With minds thus occupied are, ypnr old friends, my Eliza, returning to you, not less worthy I hope of your affection than they were Some years ae; o; and confident that your heart
4
will have undergone nq change, imless indeed you have given it by this time ta another guest. At the time of
your writing your lafl letter, which I received
a few weeks ago, no Such event had taken place; but when I consider how long it is since that letter was written, I perceive how many changes
may
"VVREATHOF .
8 I
\
may have happened' ere now.' In the midh of my rejoicings on my return, I cannot help dropping a tear to the memory of our excellent friend and in ftructor, Dr. Morton, and for the • diftress his widow must feel for his loss, which to her it must always be r but to you I hope it is not irreparable, thb’< iiiuch to be lamented.' My hulbandu bids me tell; you that as‘you would" not return him one line to his gallant, epistle, he will be equally proud; nor would he send you the following mes sage but out of pure; charity, viz. ^fto *
recommend to you to put yourself and >
✓
fortune into the hands of Some amiable man, who being nearly your own age.. in all probability continue to you '> his counselj his attentions, and Support in all dangers, ghojuy and bodily, as ou may want them; that zve can contradict your arguments against matrimo -
£5
ny
i!
; \ f
■ »
$2  QF .
ny any time you please; and convince you (of what perhaps you are already convinced) that it is, a state capable
Hear
of the most refined felicity.’’ this, thou dear Infidel, and tremble for having continued so long fingki
hfliould be ungrateful to my newly found treasure Orixana, could I close this letter without speaking of one to whom I owe so much gratitude. The present Mrs. dennison made me of this excellent woman has been a real blessing; her attachment to me L dare say knows no bounds; and during Mr. scudumore’s illness, she was to both all we could expert from theoldeft friend or nearest relation. She assisted in nursing hlht, she comforted and consoled All her own af
k
fti<5tions, Severe as they have been, were banished ^ humanity took
entir«


entire poiteffion of that breast which might be supposed to have grown callous to every feeling. It is but lately that I have known her tale of sorrows, and I have not time now to commit it to paper for your perusal; but on fliipboard, if 1 am able, I will try to recollecl the moll striking - of her simple narrative.' It will lose much in .not beingi told>by herself, whose pathetic manner makes itfo ih terehing. I have made her happy ’by convincing her we will never parr, and that She Iliall be the companion of my fortunes; all her prayers have been offered on this account, and I be
V
lieve file will think every hour a day till we arrive in En; land : where Hie

expects to meet upon the shore, a lohg loll husband. Poor Orixana! I will not damp the expectation which this voyage has made So dciirable, but
1




1
|4  or ERIENDSHIP
I fear disippoiiitment will be the end of thy hopes. Adieu, Eliza! resl as fured that nothing can be a greater happiness to .me, than to see you.
scud.vmot.&.
L LT T E R X
Lord Wejlhury, to the Rev. £. Seymour..
jvejihur^lodgey yanedlif.
The health of our friend, my
dear, Mr. Seymour, becomes every day more and more favourable.. He will fopn be able to use his pen, and I don’t doubt but you will receive its first offering. He now get s up
9
.every day, but is yet too weak to Share, anything with his friejads but joy \ and'.
• ^ *. • V ».
I.

^5
I have none of that to dispose of. A few weeks ago I thought nothing could ctffedi; me more sensibly than the date in which I Saw poor Drummond; I now find there is one person in the world who occupies a larger portion of my heart than even that valued relation; and the idea of being separated from her, causes a pang still more
poignant
You will excuse me for
troubling you with my concerns, but the heart ready to burst: with its own anguish Seeks for some one to unbur d'len itself to; and our late correspondence upon a melancholy fubjecl, has convinced me, that you have humanity enough to pity the dillrefs of a friend, to give him your confidence,
A
and to afiift him with your advice, I will therefore hasten to give you a detail of the transactions that have
been
%
(!

r

I

86
 .
been going forward during my attendance on Mr. Drummond.
\
My father, eager no doubt, to ensure my happiness, and unconscious Oi infringing any right, proposed to my Lord St. Clair a union between i.ady Julia and myself, without
giving me the lead hint of his inten*
\
tions. Could I have offered her a heart, free and disengaged, and have received such a one in return, it might have been to both a connexion not only of convenience but felicity; but situated as we are, nothing could be So unfortunate as this proposal; and' my objedions to the alliance have incensed my father so highly, that I fear all my art, without the fubmillion he requires, will be insufficient to redn, state me in his good graces. ‘with afoul not very susceptible of the tender
passion.
 .
passion, he cannot conceive what dis like we can have to a marriage which appears to him to be So necessary to the improvement of both our foitunes; (which indeed are Separately large enough to Satisfy reasonable desires, ’ and even now to contribute to the wants of others) but two people are to be made miserable for the sake of joiiv ing acre to acre, and the lengthening! a grove to the extent of ten miles when five are enough for every convenience the most wanton fancy can desire.
This would have been my opinion if my heart were free; but attached as * it is to miss Courtney, I look, on wealth; only as a Secondary consideration; jior should I have had a wish for it but as a
t
means of placing her in a fituatiom
f
11
; I
t ^
I I
/


1
 .
where her merit and virtues might be

most conspicuous.
I have endeavoured to convince my
mistaken parent that her worth, her
education, and understanding, would adorn the highell rank, and give lustre
to it; but he is indexible, and infills
as a proof of my affeoion for him, that
I See her no more, that I forget her,
.nor think of, nor Speak to her again.
I have not, nor neither can I promise
Such a Sacrifice, because I am certain
it is what I never Shall be able to perform
1 I even fear your superior reason
and unbiased judgement will condemn'.
me, when I tell you, I have dared to

mention to Selina, as.our only re
T’
iource, a private marriage;
but file
forever Soars above me, and vows
tie er to be mine without, my father’s
conient


 . §9
‘‘ I have never, She Says, known the blessing of a parent, but I have been taught to reverence the very name, and to look on disobedience as a mortal crime; let me not then be guilty of leading one .1 love, into danger, or calling down on your head the curse of him who has a. right to expert obedience, though not to force it. We are both young, my Lord, and according to the course of nature may look forward to many years; let us not embitter these by follies of which we are sure to repent; nor cloud over future prospects with family difeontents which would .destroy all our enjoyments. Lord Mordington is growing into years, let me not deprive him of the consclation he has a right to expert from you. I have vowed never to be yourh but on terms of general consentpif it will, coati ibute to) our ease
and

!
w
; 5
II
I: :
Ui
i III :
II 1
: I
i! '
i 1
1
90
 .
and happiness, I will vow also, never to be anoiher^s, whikl you continue single and attached to me.”
This, my dear Sir, is selina’s fixed resolve. reason I know mull: approve of it, but love would have rejoiced at a less rigid decision. Sometimes I am inclined to doubt of the strength of her affection for me, but I know the offers She has refufeds Since our acquaintance, and that she is all truth and Sincerity, and in a moment I banish everything but confidence in her constancy. That mine will be equally firm, equally permanent, I will never cease to affure her, but we muss Separate; this is my ambitious father’s decree, and in which for a time I rnun: acquiesce. I fear, however, I I cannot be quite So Submiffive as he expects me, for he imagines I may
live
 .
91
live within three miles of the woman I love above every earthly being, and never See her, or think of her; indeed, my good Sir, I have not resolution Sufficient to aid me in an action So heroic. I feel myself but a weak mortal, contending with So violent an adversary as love; and I am much more inclined to yield than make any resistance. Were the objedf less worthy, I might perhaps endeavour to conquer this inclination; as it is I will fly, but carry along with me the arrow and the wound, and cherish a sentiment that I am convinced is honour ■ for it is the love of virtue. herselte You will say that the subject hurries me too far, and that I forget having at the beginning of my letter alked your advice; whereas, I Seem to be giving my own opinion, and abiding by it, like moil people in an error. But though'
you
< i
:
i i
i ]
!i
I 5
im
I ••
i i
1 hi

LI
L
LI i
LI
i 1
!i

II
I r i
till
!
H!

LI
n
02
 .
you See I am determined to my
general behaviour, I wish for your advice
how to conduo: myself properly
in this perplexing atsair.
I beoin to
o
distrust my own judgement on an occasion
where the passions take the
lead.
You will favour me with a continuance
of your correspondence I am
sure, but if you could for a few days
give us the pleasure of your society, it
would be contributing to the happiness
of an old as well as a new friend; one
who is eager to prove how much he
has and does value your ; and
the latter how much he will if you honour
him with it. I remain your moll
obliged and very affectionate.
hvejlhury^
LETTER
Hi
it
ti;
 OF FRIEHDSHIP.
93
LETTER XL
■lath Julia Harcourt, to Miss Darnlej.
\
V
Livingjion’abbeyy yane a6.
Have often heard it remarked, my dear Eliza, “that a striking contrail in Scene or Sitiiatioa, could never be iinpleafant, now 1 do aver the dii

rect contrary, from ray own experience
this very evening. She Sereni,
\,
of the weather induced Selina and myself to exceed our usual limits in •our walk, and ramble to a water mill about two miles dillant. It Hands at the foot of a hill, or, I ?Should rather say, the hill is of a Semicircular form. So as to Screen the miller’s pleasant cottage from every cold
i i

I j
I :
I i
I'
; I :
i! I
I! [
■ i * >,

i I
t ■ {
J * i
h!
[ \
i
f
»
j
LI
! J.
LI
94

and penetrating wind. The river forces its way rudely over Several broken rocks and large Hones, and Solicits your attention as well from its pidiuresque beauties, as from its agreeable murrhurs.on the opposite bank is a large hanging wood, that throws a Soft and pleasant Shade over the whole of this delightful valley.the miller’s wife was Seated upon a rustic bench at the door of her cottage; her Son, a handsome youth, that might have pafted for a shepherd in a romance, was reclined upon the bank at a little distance, drawing Some delight full strains from a clarinet; whilst his brother, a Sweet child about two years old, was gathering flowers beside
V
him.
There was Something in this Scene lb simple and pleasing, that we likewise seated ourselves upon the verdant
mead,
; ll
I!': i

 . 9^^
rhead, to contemplate the beauties of the place. Our meditations, how ev^er, were Soon interrupted by Sounds, which to my companion I firmly believe were more Sweet than ihe warbling, fongflers in the neighbouring
grove, or the Soft notes from the youth’s clarinet, it was the voice of Lord Weflbury. For Some time we
topics, the
conversed
on general
beauties of nature, See. but in a Scene So formed to inspire love, with the objeef of your tenderest attachment by your fide, it would have been unnatural, nay impossible, not to have in. troduced the favourite Subject. How much I wish. Lady Julia, saidweft bury, that our Society, at this moment, could be increased by the presence of the man, who of all others .has the power of conferring ha'ppiuess
on
i »


i
:? ill
i;
i
95  .
Oil you.” An involuntary tear Ilarted in my eye; I was ashamed of my weak ness, and dreaded nothing So much
. f
as weftbury’s observing it. 1 told him I thought it was a very pretty hint for me to retire, and' rati hastily down the bank, to the milieds wife. She took me into the cottao; e,
O
and gave me the history of every individual
of her little family.
Everything
was So neat and comfortable that I protest, Eliza, I thought that I could with pleasure have renounced all the trappings of grandeur; and with a few chosen friends, cosild have con 'tentedly finished my peacefvil days in that recluse situation. We stayed ’till the evening; Shades began to close
o o
around us; 1 then Thought it high Time to remind the worthy, pair, that they were not in fairyland, but must again return to the common path of
'mortals
A

  07
mortals. We Sauntered home in that happy frame of mind, which I am convinced, my friend, you have muck oftener experienced than I have. How ardently I willi could attain that firm ' oquality of soul which you enjoy, and which must be such a real blelhng to the pofleltor,
When we arrived at the avenue. Lord vveftbury told us, that his father’s early supper, and a point lie made of never keeping him waiting, must be his apology for not feeing us quite home. The motive of obliprinp'
A O O
a parent was too amiable not to approve of it; we therefore went quietly home without him.. But how much were we furprised on entering the drawing-room, to find Lord mor dington there,.
Vol. II F

.
N
1!

; ‘
I f
II
I;
f •
N
I r
f
? i
i r }
i!
f I
r
I? »; i •
I
} '
98  .
ikow Shall I give you a description of the party? my mother looked extremely uneasy, and every time they ' spoke Seemed to add to her anxiety; my father appeared, to be much more angry than he is accustomed to be; as for Lord Mordington, passion, pride, petulance, malice, and ill nature, were all blended in ^ his countenance. As Soon as he beheld me, There Ihc is, ’’ Said he, let her an, fwer for herself. Tell me, young lady, have you, durft you say, that you would not marry my fon? and yet if it is so, don’t tell me; I could not with patience see the woman, who was so lost to everything that was good, as to say 111e did not choose to marry Lord Weftbury. But I know your motives, your reasons are plain enough; don’t think I want penetration so much as not to know it is
your


I
wreatl! OF .
99
your love for Harry Drummond.’* Her love for Harry Drummond” Said my father, interrupting him, if I had the leaf! suspicion that She dared
but for an instant
»> ((

your suspicions, my Lord St. Clair you are So passionate, so impetuous, if you would be calm and collected, as I am, you would see things in their true light. But don’t alarm yourself, Drummond will never have her; poop fellow, he has engaged himself, like a graceless dog as he is, to marry French girl; and as Soon as he gets better, he is going to See her. It dis treltes his parents much, but who is there that ever had a child that did not diftress them ?” This lad; Speech of Lord mordington’s was more than my father’s temper could bear; that his daughter Should be in love with a man who had evidently left her for
f2
another
iih!
!i ''
lib
III
hi
m
M
If
•; I
J i

: <
• ’ 1
i
; 1
!'i
iji
I
i!
I {
0
III
: L
< i
loo  .
another woman, and this attachment Should prevent her accepting the man he had destined for her, was too much. I confess I was notless offended
C
than my father. My bosom glowed with an honest indignation at the thought; and ftupified as I was with the reception I had met with at my entrance, i yet found words to exculpate myself from the charge.
There is but one way, Julia, to convince me, ” said my father, and that is ihftantly to tell Lord mor dington, you will with pleasure accept the addrelfes of his Son.”
'This was a hard condition! I hesitated, If you don’t comply, ” conf

tinned my father, I will disown you for my child; nor will I Suffer any one to plead in your behalf.” He came up to me with a firmness in his look that
V absolutely
 . 101
absolutely frightened me; I biirft into tears! this had more effect than all
the oratory I could have used. “She is my only child, ” Said he, ‘ct has been the Iludy of her life, hitherto, to make me happy. She is the comfort of my age; and shall I, to gratify myself, make her life miserable? I cannot do it, my Lord Mordington; you" must tell your fon, without Julia will
r
marry him with her own free will, he shall not have her at all.” ‘^you are a fooliili man, my Lord St, Clair, to be Softened by a woman’s tears; they will do her no harm: But let her cry, file is stubborn enough, I fielieve, my my fon is better without her; but one tiling more I enlist upon, he shall not have our other daughter as you call her; fly is certainly an improper match for him.” No reflections upon my Selina, my Lord, ” Said my
f3
father
;
102  OF FRIENDSHI?.

father, Ihe is a good girl, and I dare answer, has no thoughts of your Son So much the better, So much the better, ’^ Said his lordlliip, for she
never (hall have him.'’ Poor Selina's,
#
case was not now much better than mine; she bluflied extremely when my father asserted fly had no thoughts of Lord Weflbury; but we were ail relieved by Lord mordington’s taking his leave. You will believp, Eliza, I was truly grateful to my father for his goodness to me. When we retired, 1 found myfeif so little inclined to sleep, that I sat down to impart this whole Scene to you; I know you will feel for our perplexities. Adieu, my dear friend, no fituition can ever alter the warm affe(5lion that is felt for you, by your
yalia Harcourt.
LETTER
. 1
 OP . Tol
E T TER
XLI
Rev. Edward. Seymouri to Henry
D rummondy Esq.
ffansfordy Lune 27.
My Dear Friend,
S I am now relieved by your recovery, from the anxiety which attended your late situation, 1 feel an impulse to alfume a more Serious air; and admonish you, both in the character of a friend and a divine. Believe me, that this late transadion, which So deeply hurt my feelings as your friend, wounded me much more
acutely as a man of religion, I can
#
look upon the decihon of thesa points of honour, as they are called, in any other light than that of a cool
f4
deliberate

\.
}
I »
hi
. i
bl!
: .ii;;
•
il. t
'ill
hi:
ifr'
'!i; illii:
. I
iiij
* II
iiih
diii;
: !!i
n
il
i lb
i i;;



I.

T I
t!
j -
1;
M:
u
m
i'
till:
*04
deliberate murder. Tell me not that
the world approves Such inhuman
cusloms, to keep the peace of Society,
to awe the petulant, and Silence the
impertinent. But does religion Sleep
while these reformers are murdering
men into obedience > Does the maker
of mankind, who formed men to be
of one mind, and told them that they
were brethren, does He sit an unconcerned
Spectator of Such transadions, .'

does the author of the mofl benc'
volent religion the world evh* Saw
authorise Such proceedings? Alas! the
very contrary is the cafe! Even harflr
1
words are forbidden by that mild legislator;
how much more, inhuman
aflions? But am I then, the man
of Spirit exclaims, tamely to en
dure aninsult? am I to bow'before
the insolent, and crave pardon, when
I have never offended? by no means,
innocence
1 II
iiu
•IH
tf i
t.
 . 10^
innocence will always juftisy herself; and men of understanding will Support her condu6l. The challenger is generally rash, and always prejudiced by passion. Is it reasonable, then, to Say nothing of religious motives, rhat I am to run the hazard of losing my life, because he cares not for his own? is it proper that I, who, probably, am a husband or a father, Should slake these unfinished duties against thedife of a profligate? or, if I am not yet engaged in these important characsiers of life, others, probably, demand my care. It may be, an aged parents breath depends upon my own; a filler’s happiness, or a brother’s love; am I then to risk all in this world and my own welfare in the next, for what? for a point of mistaken honour; and to gratify the resentment of a rash mortal. Think not that the world would con


f5
demii
I
1

I i
I i
1 (
(i
i


106  .
dcmn you for declining Such a contest.
f
Men of fense and virtue would rather applaud you; and if a Sew licentious charaffers should not be Satisfied with these reasons, be afitured that they do not understand them, therefore de fpise their insults
I have not, neither do I intend, to apply these arguments to your late rencontre. Your own reflections, I doubt not, before this time, have done it for you. To speak my  h beyond my power. Live as you have hitherto done; and if once only in a mans life he has done amiss, he need not be afraid of censure.
your’s, affexionately,
E. Seymour.
LETTER.
 . IO
•V
LETTER XLII
mifsdara/n', to Lady Julia Harcourt.
ivamford houpy Lune 28.
Congratulate you, my dearest Julia, on Mr. drummond’s recovery,. It has relieved you from infinite anxiety, as you considered yourself the' cause, ( tho’ certainly the innocent one) of the unfortunate rencontre.
I cannot acquit Mr. Drummond of acting with duplicity; and perhaps it is.afortunate event for you that his ■ first engagement was So Soon discovered. I hope he will leave Lord i mordington’s as Soon as his health will. permit, as .I Should be Sorry you Should.
meet;


ho8’  .
meet him at present. He is Mr. seymour’s mofb intimate friend, and many conversations we have had on this subject. Seymour blames himseli much for not endeavouring to guard his friend from such a fatal delusion;; refieflions have been as painful as your own, and the favourable accounts we now receive, have relieved him from infinite anxiety.
1 hinted to Selina, in a letter, an Idea I had of changing my situation;; should have heard of it sooner, but for this melancholy quarrel which has en grofied so many of our thoughts. You have often told me, Julia, that I fiioiild be much happier in a married State than I was in a single one, but niy heart had no object to prefer; and ■ I looked only at a distance at a pros pccl which perhaps does not always
appear

 . IO
J
appear in the most brilliant, colours. I hit seymour’s gentle virtues, and many amiable qualities, have been more effeiflual than all your rhetoric. I Seel all the Soft influence of that pas sion which has been So often the fub je61; of the poet’s pen, but which, till
t
now, I never could form an idea of.
I have not rashly entered into this
engagement
From the first moment
I became acquainted with Mr. Seymour, my heart told me he was the only man I had ever seen who could
make me happy. I took some pains
• ♦
to banish him from my thoughts; and I mu ft confess that my pride was hurt, when I refle6i: ed how steadily i had declared my intention of never marrying. I was unwilling to own my weakness, even to, you, my friend; and ashamed when I considered how very
an

> 1
no WRHATH OF FRIENDSIIIF.
1 i
inconsiftent my conduo; would appear Should I indulge the partiality I Selt.. Mr. seymour’s behaviour tome Snce I first knew him, has been uniform, manly, and I may add, tender; it re’ quired very little penetration to discover the preference he gave me; and his motives for concealing that pre ference were So very generous, that his character Stands unrivalled. You must pardon the Strength of my expression, as you may perceive that I view all his actions through a medium which ■ is not very apt to magnify faults.' it’ is true, I love, him with a Sincere affection, and as my heart never before felt the force of this passion, I may be a little blind, but. all who know him praise his virtues; they are not of the negative kind, but active, and exerted for the good of his fellow creatures. I hayca. very particular wilh, my beloved.
I
 OF F RE N D SH I P. M I
loved friend, that you fllould be with me on this oecalion; for tlio’ I am So truly Senlible of Mr. seymour’s merit, and am in my own mind perfectly satisfied with the propriety of the fliepy yet I feel my Spirits will require the kind assistance of my Julia, to help me to Support myself with firmness. Will my dear
Lady Sr
Clair have the
goodness to Spare you and Selina to me, tho’ but for a Short time.. Plead for me, my friend, to your mother; you have more intereii in her heart than I can boast of, and; I doubt not your readiness to oblige me



Mr. Seymour begs his most respeft^* full compliments, and bids me say he will either come to Livingston for you, or meet you in any part of the road, if
and. Lady St., Clair will but
*7-1.

112  .
t
I
I
. i
1!
i
j I
n [
\
1..
ri
%« tt
LI
,; i
i i
I
grant us this favour; and I will pro niise .myself to See you Safe home again. I could urge numberless arguments to Show how kind I should esteem your presence at this time;
but to your  alone I will
/
appeal. I flatter myself with a first place, and in .that hope I shall remain your most affectionate and Sincere friend,
Eliza Darn lay.
1 >
LETTER
i


FR lekdship. IIJ
L E T T E R XLIII
The Rev. Edivard Seymours to Lord
, July i,
Incerely do I thank your Lordship
for your two last favours. The
restoration of my
given me a
s health has
I
\
pleafurej and I now to wish on his account, but that he may properly feel the impropriety of his condud, and profit by his late melancholy Situation. 1 have written to him on this subject,, flatter myself, I shall ere long have the happiness of hearing from him.
y our
i
I
I 14  .
Nour lorculiip^s offers of  are too, agreeable not to be accepted with joy; and I fhoiild esteem inyself very fortunate to be able in any resped: to give you advice which might contribute either to your present or future happiness. miss courtney’s behaviour meets with my warmest approbation; and give me leave to add, my Lord, it is rather' an ungenerous conclusion, to imagine that Ihe is not as sincerely attached to your Lordlbip as you expected. Tho’ the votaries of love, perhaps, may not be so clear lighted as if they were not under that influence, yet we ought not to conclude, that a person who ads with propriety, in Such a situation, does not feel; it would be (triking at the root of every heroic action, and depriving your lively friend of one of her bright eil ornaments. Your Lordship will,
I
 . II
/
I am Sure, be Sensible of this when time has soothed those sorrows which at present wound your heart. >
The different ideas of happiness which persons of different ages entertain, may easily account for Lord mordington’s earnest wilh to see you united to Lady Julia Harcourt. You must be perfectly satisfied, that it is your felicity alone his Lordihip has in view;, and tho’ he has unfortunately chosen an improper method of expressing his deffre, yet, I dare venture to? promise, he will in time be convinced of his error, and have real pleasure in allowing you to be happy in your own way. Only, my Lord, you must fol low Miss courtney’s advice. Do not by precipitation blast all your future prospects; with your sentiments of filial respect, you could never be happy

(
\ f
i
I

11
2t6
py even in the poffefiion of her you most ardently desire;;, by obtaining the object of your wishes, you forfeit the alfeflion of a father.
Your pafi life has been Spent in such unremitting attention to your
s
duty, and your charafler has gained so much lustre by it, that I flatter myself the moment your Lordlliip will view with the calm eye of mild pbi losophy, ypur present situation, that you never can marry miss Courtney under these circumstances. I would fuggefi; to yoii, by way of changing the Scene, by all means to go abroad; if you can prevail with his Lordihip to give his approbation. Besides, the iiccefiity there appears to be for poor Drummond to take that step, as Soon as his health will permit, will be an'
excellent

i\ireath OF .
I 17
"excellent pretence for your accompanying him.
It would have added greatly to my present happiness if it had been in my power to have accepted your obliging invitation, as I Should have wished to have Seen you both before you ■leave England; but you each feel the power of love too forcibly, to expect: me to leave at this time the objet of my tenderest attachment. Mils Darnley has consented to make me happy, and I hope in a Short time to aflurne a new character. We have Some flattering expedations
That Lady Julia Harcourt and miss Courtney will honour our nuptials 'with their presence, which prevents me .from requesting the favour of feein you at that time at Wansford. When tyour Lordship returns from the Continent,


U 1
t
lls  .
tinent, it will be no Small addition to my happiness to have the honour of receiving you in my humble habs
tation.
E. Seymour,
\
LETTER XLIV
ray Julia Harccurty to Miss ttarnuy
/
Lwingjion abbey, Luly 3,
OUR letters, my dear Eliza,
have always the power of conveying a sensible Satisfaction to my breast; but your last was productive of more than common pleasure. It has long been my ardent wiih to see you shine in the connubial state; with So fair a profpefl of happiness before you, how thankful am I that my prayers
have
/

I 19
have been heard. Your Sentiments of a single life Seemed to be So firmljr rooted, that I was really afraid it would not have been easy to eradicate them; but I am rejoiced to find I was mistaken. I cannot even now avoid reverting to my former ideas of old tnaid ifm, that it is a forlorn uncomfortable State at best Even you, my friend, I have often thought were in want of Some intimate connexion, though Surrounded with fortune’s best gifts. Whilst young, we can find friends enough who are ready to sail with us down the giddy dream of dissipation; but when age and infirmities oblige us to retire, and to endeavour to find that happiness at home which we vainly sought abroad, how much do we then want a companion who is ' bound
* A late writer compares it to a blighted tree upon an open common.


N
-120  .
owned to US by a firmer tie than that
■os . Our female friends
\
have formed other connexions, and are too busily employed in watching the progress of their own families, to, attend to the happiness of a felitary individual.

And as to the Platonic fyfiem, I had always a very indifferent opinion of that. I recollect, Eliza, you once dropped a hint to me in one of your 'letters, that you willed Mr. Seymour, 'had been either married, or a good
4
deal older, that you might without
I
censure have cherithed a  for him; of the absurdity of that idea 1 apprehend you have been too long convinced, to make it necessary, at this time for me to enlarge upon it.
If
 frte‘ni5sfil^* lit
If you will let me know when yoii have fixed your day, I will certainly - be with you the evening before, and stay for one week. I arn much obliged to Mr. Seymour' for his politeness in offerino; to meet me on the road: but I think it will be unneceftary to give
P
him that trouble, as I shall take the travelling chariot and carry my own hi^id with me. Selina is very much ^ mortified, she cannot be with you but she has had a Little cold, which joined t6 a hutry of Spirits at being present at Some un
Scenes
lately, Some of which I described, and nthers of the Same nature, threw he
into a slow fever. She was indeed very much indisposed for Some days, but I hope she is now nearly recovered; tho’ my mother does not choose to trull her from home so soon after her
confinement.

Vol. II
G
Poor
122  .
Poor wellbury’s diftressat the time file was lick, is not to be described; how tenderly is he attached to her! I cannot help daily lamenting, that two people, So forpied to confer happiness on each other, Should thus be forever Separated, by the ill nature and caprice of a petulant old man. I beg hislordfhip’s pardon, but lantentirely out of patience with him.
I fear, my Selina, ” Said Weftbury to .her, this morning, that I give you pain by my very great anxiety for your recovery; you absolutely Seem to Suffer as if you were distressed, vvhen I am in company with you, by the energy I cannot refrain from showing for your welfare : But it Shall not be always thus; I will not bethe constant cause of uneafmess to the woman, whom of all others, I willi to make
the
OF . 12^
the most happy. As Soon as I am convinced you are quite well, I will instantly go abroad.’^ Abroad, my Lord, ” Said Selina, lifting up her fine eyes to his, ‘‘surely you have no
thoughts of that.” “Indeed i have, ” Said he, “nay, I am Serioufiy determined upon it; do you think I can see and converse with you confiantly, daily behold so many proofs of your num berless qualifications, and Hill remain under the cruel restrictions you and my father have laid on me of never calling you mine? and on the other hand, is it pofsible that I Should remain in the same kingdom' with you, and yet de barmyself the pleasure of beholding you? No, 'my charming girl, believe me, that is a talk too hard for me to 4mpose upon myself.”
O 2-
<<
If
Ill
t i
i: r
I.
(
j
I

w
T; • :
«; »!
tt
!
1 ■ 'I
t
N
124  .
If Such is your determination Said
\, _
Selina, ’’ let me entreat you to alter it. I Shall be mod unhappy in coniidering myself as the cause of your banishment. Your country has a claim upoi you. If such members of the community as Lord Weftbury will not reside at home, where Shall we look for examples. Your father has a right to demand your society!! me now, my Loid, have the fatisfatdion of hearing you say, you will not, at lead; for forae time, go abroad, ” He bowed his head, but made her no answer. So much for the obscinacy of mankind thought 1; give them but time to form an opinion, right or wrong, and all the perfuafionin the world cannot overturn it.
Poor Selina’ I doubt fly wdll long be the victim of a hopeless paiiion 1 Left
you

 .
125
you Should imagine more of the inhabitants of Livingfton abbey may be' in the same situation, I think it necef ■ fary to inform you, that I ‘ am entirely' restored to my reason, and behold ' drummond’s ad ions in the true lights and upon cool reflection cannot help thinking them ungenerous to the lalb degree. It was all at the beginning,  and flirtation, sofar it was very well; but did he not sometimes endeavour to introduce a little love, particularly in a little Jeu d.dfprit, he Sent me with a dart; and if it was all , why was the name of Mademoiselle de Sanzey so carefully avoided. I am not quite Sure that I hold selwyn’s behaviour in such abhorrence as I did when he went away. Had he behaved better about the duel, I could easily have forgiven him
g3
for
I i
it : ii
'
L 1
I
1
r
I t
I
: i
i i
II
i i
fll
i «
'■ t
;!
‘II
l
II
ifi
■> \' i'
. r
t >
tt L
C
u i: i ■

i <!
u
i
!ll: :
'
ili I
: I
1 I:
t I >
i I ‘' I 11!
ti:
'Hi'


126
for being the first person that mentis.
oned the French lady.
It appears to me now very plain,.
that drumnir ad had lixed upon this
plan for the amusement of a few leisure
hours, whilst he was obliged to stay
in England, till he could once more return to his beloved Rojhhia. A very
flattering consideration for me to be
Sure! I have one more idea to Suggest
o you, and then I have done with the
subject forever. don’t you think that
J .ord w^eftbury might have hinted to
me that there was such a lady in exil!'
ence, without violently infringing either
ihe laws offriendjjnp or honourp I am
no great judge of these nice points between
men, but i think that might
have been done with a very little
management,
We
^ V
^ 9
 . i27
We are informed that Mr. Selwyn is at Paris, living in high Style; that he is quite the tonne, and an iiniversal favourite with the ladies. He certainly can be an agreeable companion when \icpleafis. Mr. Drummond goes away in the morning, Sol hope i shall be Spared the pain of feeing him any more.
Adieu, my dear friend! I fear I have taken up too much of your time at present, when you have more important concerns to think of. I Shall not
I
write again before I see you; that it may be in happy times, and on an happy occasion, is the sincere prayer of your
Julia Harcourt

O 4
LETTER
I
I

lis WEATH OF ?rilndahl?
. I
LETTER XLV
Drummond,, esq. to the Rev.
E Seymour'
'
I
; >
t
'* \ h

f'
. i
#
Wejihury, Lodge, Luly. 3.
EYMOUR, behold the pen oncq more in the hand of your friend; and wielded in your Service, to whom everything is due, that reason or gratitude can inspire. What shall I say to you, dearest, best of men, for the pains you have taken to make me worthy of esteem, since the first moment of our acquaintance? never hill now was your victory complete. But I think you will do me the justice to believe me, when I say, that my present sentiments agree entirely with your last letter 3 that before it arrived
they

 OFTRIENDSHIP, i29
they had undergone a thorough change. It has convinced me on a fubje6t which perhaps I had not Sufficiently considered; it has confirmed me in re6titude; and I hope I shall no more deviate from those principles you So nobly enforce. I tremble at the idea of having been thought by you So guilty as 1 really was; I find now, that to look with indifference upon errors is one Step towards the cornmifjion of crimes; and when So far advanced, the descent is easy, gradual, and certain. How difficult is it to rise to the summit of virtue? burr even this I will attempt; and assisted by your friendly arm, I fear not to attain a height fb desirable, if any hu man. mind may So presume
As my first atonement, I write to, to offer her an unworthy
g5
band.
II
.1 •
/
4*.
•i*
ir

j
»
IJ
1^0
 .
hand, but which Ihe alone has an right to, if Ilie thinks it acceptable. I dare not say I give with it a heart, be cause, in truth, I cannot add that is mine to give; but time and absence from the Scenes which lately made me happy, will, I hope, teach me to think on this, as on every other Subject, as becomes a man who profeltes himself your friend. Chance, and my delirium, discovered to my father and mother this fatal Secret; it is their earnest, willi that I Should fulfil my engagements as Soon as my health is restored. How good are they to me!
and what have they not fuifered for an
* ♦ • -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
uhdeserving Son! I am a beggar in gratitude to every creature round me; and the rest of my life, however long, will Scarce Suffice me to discharge the
debt.
N either
 . II
Neither my head nor my hand is equal to a long letter. Farewell, my dear friend; nobody can rejoice So much at your approaching happiness, as your faithful
H.di 'uni'rnond.
LETTER XLVI

lienry Drummond, Esq. to
maddmoifeue Sanze)\
jvefibury lodgey Luly 3.
OSALIA, what will you say to
your truant lover, who, forgetful of the vows he Swore at your feet, had Suffered himself to be captivated by an English beauty? Trembling and fearful he dares to be sincere;; confess his crime, - to deprecate
your,
I ' o
! I
'I i
I t
i
\
\ 1
: i
f :
; I 1!
1
\ I
! I
1 i
i I
I r
* L
f '
!;
\ :
I :
).
j i
I
. «
f t

I I
{ i
152
 OF^,
your anger, and even to Sue for your for iveness, He offers you a hand truly unworthy your acceptance; but led by the virtues in your train, he trulls it will, not always remain So. He can offer you also a pleasing reception in this country, from those, who, assured of.your merit, are desirous to call you by the endearing name of daughter; and who will endeavour to assist their fon in making amends for his pad negleclo
Yon, my dear Mademoiselle de Sanzey, are the arbitress of my fate; say but you wiih to See me, and! fly over Sea and land to obey the Summons. All my future life shall be fpentto make you happy; and, to atone for the treason I have been guilty
of against love.
_ • ¥’ ■
Had I been in health
^ \
1 should long ere now have been ia
i 1
\

T <9
person at Paris; but a Severe illness, from which I have Scarce yet recovered, obliges me to write what I So much wish to Say. As Soon as I Iliall receive your answer, I hope to be able
to obey your commands, Monsieur
#
1
and Madame de Sanzey who were not ignorant of our engagement, will. have no objection, I think, to ratify it on the. terms I firll proposed; to
them I present my most respe6i; full.
V
devoirs; to you, rosalia, every thin you can desire, from an afsedionat®
H. Drummond.

LET
V
!i
LI I
»! i
()
I *
; I ■
'_ «
'1
I I
:!! I
II
i 1 : ' ' «
’ 1 :
i)
{. I
M
II
»
I >
f >
1 :
H;
■1!
if’
t
II
t

M :
I
f


U ■
i
134  .
LETTER XLVII
0
Miss Darnley, to i^atfy Julia Harcoiirt,
dvansford houfey July iy.
Have this moment received your favour, my Julia; it has revived my almost drooping Spirits, by the kind alturance, that I shall have your Supporting presence. I sincerely regret poor selina’s illness on her account, ' and I am afraid, not much less on my own., It would have given me great pleasure to have Seen the dear girl at Wansford; but tho’ 1 am denied that satisfaction at present, I will hope, in teitureto be mere fortunate. You desire me to tell you when you must come, the moment^'ou receive this letter
as.
>..
 .
ns
/
as Thursday is the day fixed. I have thought So often and So deeply upon this Subject, that I Seel myself a coward; and never in my life had more occasion for your Support than at present. I See my gravity gives pain to the only man in the world I ever willed to please; and yet notwithstanding all my endeavours, I cannot conceal it, I ardently wish you were here, as your vivacity would at least make my feelings not So conspicuous. I will not indulge myself in writing any longer, as 1 find the fubiedt would be inex
^ vv..
hauflible.
My bell thanks to Lord and Lady St. Clair, for Sparing you to me; but my Julia, talk not of one week; remember how very long it is since you have favoured me with a viiit, and at What a time you will be with me.
My

\
\
136.  OP .
My befl wiches and love to my dear

N
Selina; I hope you will bring a better
account of her health. yours, my
Julia
Eliza Darnleji

L E T T E R xlvm
/
Jjxdy Julia Harcourt, to Mils Courtnty.
Wansford eoufe, Julyy,
WELL knew before I came from
hpme how tenderly I loved you,
my Selina; but, believe me, till I was
parted from you, I was not Sufficiently
acquainted how necessary you were to
my happiness. Though enjoying the
company of my dear Eliza, I am every
moment in want of you; Some rew

 .
137
idea strikes me, which I wilh to com murucate to youor if anything gives me pleasure, it loses half its joy because you do not Iliare it with me, thoht is but a few hours ago since I parted with you, I donk feel inclined to take any rest till I have given you some account of my journey; and as the scribbling mania Seems to be upon at present, I think it quite as well to indulge it.
me
We rolled brifidy along all the morning with a bright sunshine and clear Iky, which promised a much longer continuance than we experienced in the sequel; and was an excellent lelton, to Show us how transient are all Sublunary blessings. About four in the afternoon we, were overtaken by one of the moll dreadful
storms I ever heard. The thunder
ivared
: i!
• 1
l^s  OF FRIEND SHIFT
roared incessantly, and the lightning
V
came in Such quick Succeeding fiafhes,
that it was impoitible to disdngiiilh
them. It did not Suit the nerves either
of poor Anne or myself; burr as there
was no shelter near, and the horses
went very quietly, we were obliged to
I

and therefore
sat patiently trembling in the
corner of the carriage, waiting the tin
certainty of our fate. We had not
proceeded far in this way before vc

were Stopped by a phaeton and four,
which had taken poffellion of the mid'
die of the road. Three or four Servants
were vainly endeavouring to appease
the unruly horses, who were So much
terrified at the lightning, that it was
impossible to hold them; and instantly
as we came up to them, overturned the
vehicle, and threw their poor master
at Some distance. The gentleman did
not
 .
1-39:
not appear to be much hurt; but the: Servant toldvvilliam, he feared the carriage was So much broken, it would be imposiible for his master to get into it again; and as the rain was beginning to be very heavy, and there was no house near, he must be very much wet before he got to Wansford, a village, about ten miles off, where he was going. He Said his mailer’s nam Lord Malbourne. As Soon as William informed me of all these circumstances, I Sent to offer his Lordship an alfylum in my chariot; which he very thankfully and politely accepted. He is a very elegant young man indeed, almoflas handsome as Weftbury, Selina, and seems about his age.
e was
As the storm abated my Spirits.
arose;; in a short time we entered
•\ -
into a little chat. He Said he was
going
/

II
n
ili

b:
M
U'

( r ‘ ‘ ^ f I 1
■ I
b’l
is.
. »
I I
LI
■4:.
11'
'll;
: : I
III, 0 *
: h
nil
11

It '
lo
r
■ 1 I
hi
LI
d
I!
M
I;
LI
• fi t
V
140  .
going upon a visitor he should rather
say to officiate as bridegroom man to
Mr. se}^mour. I told him that I Supposed
tomorrow we Should both be
giiefts under the same roof, as I was
going to act in the same capacity to
Miss Darnley. You may believe he
took that opportunity of saying some
polite things j how much he was re
joiced that he was not immediately
to part with his newly acquired
acquaintance, cc.
He affied me if I knew Mr, Sey
mour? 1 said, I had not yet that pleasure,
thd. Miss Darnley was my particular
friend. He said he would venture
to affirm I flaould receive great
pleasare from his acquaintance, as he
was a mod amiable cfiarafter; everybody
that knew him loved him; he
was happy to have it in his power to
say
t
fijl'
I i
 .
tal
say, that Mr. Seymour was one his most intimate friends; he could not i<fay the mojl intimate, as they were a Trio at College, and he believed they had an equal regard for each other. I Said, that was, I believed, a very singular cafe; that it was much more common to see two bound in a league of , than three. He an swered, it had always been the case with them, that he had flattered himself with meeting his other friend, Mr,
, Drummond, tonight; but from a few hasty lines he had received fronr him
/
the day before, he found he Should be disappointed I asked him if he knew Lord Weftbury, ( as he seemed to be all in our own way a very little when Weftbury joined us, Drummond and he came to England, and 1 went into Germany, where I remained till within tilde few weeks.
When
1-42
 .

/
When we arrived at wansford llouse I was about to take leave of my companion, when we perceived Mr. Seymour at the fide of the carriage. His Surprise and aftonilhment was very great to see his friend seated So quietly by me. I availed myself of the joy they exprelfed'at meeting after So many months Separation, to slip from them, and run into the house, where I found Eliza anxiously waiting for me; our pleasure was not inferior to that of the gentlemen. She appeared in better'fpirits than I expected from her letter; but there was a sedateness in her manner, if I may so express myself, that was pleasing to me. I could not have patience with a woman that should adt with the same unconcern, on the eve of a day that was to determine her future happiness
of

HEB
or misery .for life, as at any other
time.
We were very Soon joined by the two gentlemen, and explanations and introdudlions took place on all lides. Eliza lamented much that you .could not be with us. I wish you had ever been here, that you might form an Idea of the elegant simplicity that reigns thro’ the whole of this delightful
'mansion. We were in a small draw
• •
room that looks into the garden, which might truly be Said to be “Sweet as Eglantine after a Shower.” The falhes wtre thrown open, and the woodbine and jeltamine that twined around the window, dispensed the most agreeable perfume through the ayhole room.
The

ji
I
Wj i
Sf!
Jim
: ^
: M:
I'll: '
: L
: fi i bi

9 >
L
II
f
< i
II
i 1
u
•\ •
!'•
U i
-♦ t
; i t
f' ■,
lb
!‘i
!b
11.
il!
It
1! t t
[; I i
y t
t44  OF FRI ENTSHIF.
*
The usual compliments were Scarcig over, when Lord Malbourne recurred once more to the subject I willed So much he Should be iilent upon. “I
was much Iliocked, Seymour, ” Said
#
he, Ho receive a short letter from Drummond, a day or two ago, where in he told me he had been dangeroudy Wounded in a duel; that a lady was the cause of it; but he referred me to you for particulars. I am convinced
V •
his antagonist must either have been very headfirong, or behaved very illj for I donh think Drummond would willingly have engaged in an affair of that kind.” Seymour call a glance towards Eliza, as if he had Said, “Ihalll give your friend pain, if I enlarge upon this Subject J” Eliza looked towards me, and 1 iani afraid my countenance father betrayed too much perturbation for them to think I was quite indifferent


f
s


in Sup
\
wrtath df . 14|
N.
ferent on the Subject. I was apprehensive the Silehce would grow quite distressing, and began to think it incumbent upon me to step forward | and therefore niuftering up all my resolution, I laid, yoii only do your
friend justice, ’’ my Lord,
*
posmg his antagonist to have behaved ill; he certainly is the most impetuous of all human beings; and I believe Mr. Drummond could tiot have acted otherwise than he did, according to
modern ideas of the laws of honour.
*
He is nearly recovered, n^yself to Seymour he left Lord mordington’s on Tuesday, and I be
If
yy
addrefhno'
O'
to
eno^aoemcnt
o o
lieve in a short time intends coinp' to
O O
France to fulfil his
f
there.” To you, Selina, I must con fess, and only to you I would do it, that my heart seemed to link as I pronounced the last words; and it was
Vol. II
H
w i L h

%
>! t •
liii

ill
II

1
146  OF FRIENTSHIT*
with difficulty I could articulate thenii
am Sorry for it, ” Said Lord Mai
bourn, ‘‘I do not think an union with
rosalia can ever be produdlive of happiness
to.drummond; I Saw a good
deal of her the lafl: time I was in Paris;
she is almost ignorant of the world, by
having been so long confined in a con
vent; beftdes, there is a levity in her
manner, which to
a
person of our
friend’s known good sense, and keenness
of observation, can never be
agreeable in one he is to Spend his life
with.

“I am not so well acquainted
with Mademoiselle de Sanzey as you
are, ” Said Seymour, and therefore
cannot so easily judge of her merits; to
me there is one insuperable objection
to an union, and that is the difference
of their religious tenets; but that ought
to have been considered before an engagement
had been entered into; I believe

t r
\
 . i47
/
lieve he cannot now retreat with ho
nour.’’ Very fortunately the Servant entered with tea, and put an end to a conversation, which you, my dear girl, who know my heart, will readily believe could not be agreeable tome. I suppose, before they cometo mor row, Seymour will have let his friend a little into the Secret; and he will be more Sparing of his observations on that subje(5t.
The cemiemen took their leave at eight oklock; Eliza ard I Spent a
i
comfortable eveninp;. Sdie laid onen
O t
her whole heart to me; indeed, I think file has every prosped of hap piness with Mr. Seymour. He, is one of the Inoft agreeable men I ever Saw; and appears to be particularly easy and elegant in conversation. 1 believe it is full time for me to consider that I
H z
hav
ilii ‘ill
ill
II
Hi

It!.'!' '
ii
IV
* ■
ft
u
ii

i!(
if!!
pi
•'r.
III
;

; I
■\
: /
/
24s  OF friekdshn**
have to rise early to dress for church I wish tomorrow was over, I feel myself a coward even at the thoughts of
eliza’s wedding
I don’t know
how I Should evir get over my
own.
f.
When you write, you must tell me all Weflbury says and does; I am deeply interested in all your scenes I have written a few lines to my mother; if more particulars are wanted, you will be so good as to give them, Good night, my dear girl; believe me, no situation can alter the unchangeable affection that is felt for you, by your
yalia harcoutu
LETTER
 . i49
LETTER XLIX
Mils Courtneyy to Lady Julia Harcourt.
Living lion abbey, Jidy 10.
rrahe voice of mirth has not been i heard in this dwelling Since your departure, my ever dear Julia; but I will not diminish the real pleasure I flatter myself you will have in your excursion, by a relation of the want we have of your Society. The Servant that conveys this letter to you is likewise the bearer of a whole pacquet of congratulations from every individual of the family, to Mr. and Mrs. seymouri Sincerely hope our prayers and good wishes will be heard, and that they will
HS
enjoy
V
ICO wrex\th OF FR lendshlp.

enjoy as much felicity as can be the lot of moitaiity.
As you were not here to make ord. in our usual walk yesterday evening, I betook myself to our favourite bower in the Ihrubbery. I was a good deal Surprised, on entering, to find i>ord \veftbury already Seated there. ‘‘ I have been waiting, my Selina, ” Said he, “anxioufiy waiting, this hour pad, for your arrival; hill I had
almost begun to despair
» ((

It is very
extraordinary, my Lord, ’haid I, ‘that
you Should wait here at all for me,
when it was mere accident that directed
my deps towards this place; *
and much more probable that I Should not come to night.^’ “I cannot agree with you, ’^. Said he, “it is the very place in the world that your friend and you have always chosen for mutual converse;

 . 15s
verse; every Secret and Sentiment of
^ J.
both your hearts have been disclosed
V
in this sacred grove; and consequently the first leisure moment you had after her departure, this was the most likely place for you to * retire to, that you ■might contemplate on your fliend, and present to your imagination what were her employments and thoughts at that instant. It is to this place, my dear girl, I flatter myself you will Sometimes retire when your Weftbury is far dillant, and call to mind the many vows of mutual love and constancy that we have So often plighted in this, happy Spot. We Shall perhaps not have many more meetings before that time arrives; unlei^ you will revoke that Sentence, my Selina, which you have So cruelly passed againsl me, and Suffer me to claim you as my wife. I could almost; venture to alture you of
H 4
polite
3^2
 .
polite treatment, if not affedion, from my father; and if that is not the cafe, I will pass my word he Shall never see you. You well know the joy, the fa tisfadion, I Should have in devoting my whole life to procure your hap pi ness.” I told him I would not Scruple to confess I did a violence to my inclination in refuling any request he made
o me, but I had drawn a line of con
*
for my future life, which I looked upon to be the path of reiflitude; and I trufled that no solicitations, how ever agreeable, would tempt me to deviate from it. “If such is your determination, ’’ said he, very few weeks longer will I remain in England; but I have one request more to make, one little request which I think you 'must comply with; that is, of Suffering me to become your correspondent when I am abroad.”
You
“ .
15^
(e
You absolutely Seem to hesitate even at that, Selina; are von deter mined to refuse everything I alk? can there be any impropriety in corresponding with the man you have vowed to love I know your motives to be delicate, and cannot help admiring: :; tho’ you must excuse me, - my amiable girl, if I say I think you Sometimes extend them too far. .Dut I will, : not urge you further on this subject at present; I will apply to Lady Julia,
I know She will not refuse to receive a. line now and then, nor. perhaps Scruple occasionally to return an answer to. >
her/rit^ii^/w’eltbury.’c' To this
posal you may believe I did not object; and we conversed on various topics,, to us intereftingj tho’ to you they would be tedious, until the cool
pro
breezes of the evening reminded us it was time to return to the house. Lord
H 5
Weftbury
x54  .
X
\
Weftbury went with me, he stayed Supper, but was uncommonly grave
the whole evenino.
\
After I had retired to my
own
room. Lady St. Clair came to me. i You are So much accustomed to a little Social chat at this time, my dear Selina, ’taid She, that I am afraid you will be melancholy if your are left entirely to yourself; 1 am therefore come to offer you my company for half an hour.’^ Oh! my Julia! how shall I ever make a Suitable return to your dear mother for her many in ibances of attention to me. I told her everything that had pafsed between Lord Weflbury and myself in our evening conversation; she approved very • much of my conduct. I particularly applaud you, my love, ^’ Said jqie, ‘‘ for not allowing him to hope
for
; v4'.'y


 . i55
for a correspondence with you; though
t
f ^
1 have not the flightelt doubt or your mutual attachment, yet, after all, many things may prevent your ever
t
being united; and tho’ I look upon Lord Wellbury to be a man of the strictest honour, it mull always be an unpleasant reflection for a young woman, that any gentleman has letters of her’s in his poiteffion in which love has been the principal Subject. I am confident, Julia would enjoy a correspondence with him very much, and would not have the Smalleft Scruple about answering his letters. As I have mentioned Julia, I cannot help adding, I am not perfectly Satisfied in my mind about her; I am apprehensive Ihe has not yet got over her attachment, which was but too visible, for. Mr. Drummond.’^
a
I ft
I.; 56
L
Is

When Lord Weftbury told us
*%
few days ago that Mr. Drummond was one, and he believed in a Short time ivoiild bein France, a deep glow overspread
her face, wdiich was Succeeded
%
by the most deadly paleness I ever beheld; I could not help observing that the, attempts Ilie made for a lively Sally during the remainder of the evenings were entirely forced. I do not Say this, my dear Selina, with a view tc discover your Sentiments upon the Sub' jedl, ( for I believe you are entir in her confidence, and I willi you long to remain So,) but’merely to ease. my own heart, which I afilire you has
Suffered for Some time on her ac
'•*
count.” I told Lady St. Clair, I thought there was not the least occasion
for her uneasiness \ I was.
■<.
you Saw Mr. Drummond's
action?.:

actions exa(5ily in the Same light we did; and if there were any traces of chagrin or melancholy yet remaining upon your mind, I hoped this little excursion, and the gaiety of the Scenes in which you are engaged, would entirely dissipate them. I hope So too, ’’^' said Lady St Clair, ‘^and as hope is the cheering balm of our existence, and both you and I Seem to be. at present in a little want of it, I will wish you a good night, with that Sweet impreltion fixed upon your mind, and flatter myself it will be the means of your enjoying pleasant Hum
yy
Yoiir mother’s good willies did not prevail, for weftbury’s journey had taken, too deep hold of both
mj
I cs  .

my head and heart, to Suffer tne to rest.
I dread the time of his departure, and yet am almost tempted to wish him gone. That I may ■ Support myself properly when the trying time arrives of bis taking leave, is the constant prayer of.

Your ever affectionate friend.
Selina
LETTER
 . i59
LETTER
L
Rev. Edward Seymour., to Henry
Drummond, esq.
Wansford house, "July n,
Efterday, my friend, the lovely Eliza made me. the happiest of human beings! She gave me her hand at the altar; and with it, I have the Satisfaction of reflecting I received her heart. Few are capable of feeling the transport that at this moment glows ‘ in my bread:; it is from, the pure Source of true love! a lovefo ardent,. So sincere, that it far exceeds my power to describe it. I am Sure your generous heart will Share in the happiness your friend enjoys, which is
much Superior even to those fancied

lo.  .
pleasures the poet So osten describes;
%
9
it is unmixed with one bitter ingredient,
and all my future existence
Shall be Spent in endeavouring deserve it.
to
\yill you forgive me for making my own joy the first Subject of my
pen

Think not, my Drummond,
that the happy Scenes around me have for a moment banished. from my mind those cares which oppress my friend. No, believe me, the pleasures I now enjoy, I flatter myself will enlarge my benevolence, and make me a friend to all mankind.
I am so accustomed to Share in all your Sorrows, and your joys, that I should think myself deprived of mv right were you not to entrufl; me with. them _ tell me you are going to,
’ write ‘

ll
write to rosalia; the moment you receive her ansvver let me hear from you. I am almoftas anxious for it as you can be. My earnest prayer is, that Ilie may determine whatever may be the most likely way to make you
happy.
I am afraid your health is not yet perfectly restored. The moment Lady Drummond can spare you, come to Wansford. My Eliza will altift me in endeavouring to restore. you to ease and tranquillity. We will pour the balm of comfort into your wounded heart; and if we cannot entirely cure those Sorrows which you feel, we will, by sharing them, endeavour to make them less,
Lady Julia talks of Spending but one week with her friend. I hope we
shall
ii

Iliall prevail on Malbourne to stay longer. He wrote to Inform you that he was coming; if you could conveniently join him here, it would be a great addition to the pleasure I enjoy in hig company; and in our triple  we would forget those Sorrows which adverse fortune has made as
feel. Has Lord Weftbury left England yet? if he has not, tell him I shall esteem a continuance of his correspondence a favour; and give him my befl wishes for his Safe return.
My Eliza bids me join her befl wishes with my own for you, and intreats you will favour us with your company as Soon as you find travelling not to be inconvenient to you.
You know not how many charms wansford house can boast of; come
and
 .
and Share them with one who glories
in now calling you friend.
£. S,
LETTER LI
#
Lady Julia Harcourt, to miss Courtney,
pvamford house, July 12,
Otwithftanding all the fine things
we have heard Drummond Say
of this Mr. Seymour; or to go Hill further,
notwithstanding all our Sanguine

imaginations, we have not been able to
do justice to the original character; if
you will allow me to be a judge from
so Short an acquaintance. I am absolutely
in danger of falling in love
with him; and Should be almost
tempted
/
164  .
tempted to grudge Eliza So great a blessing, did I not know that he is much better Suited with a wise than he could have been with Such a giddy creature as myself.
His behaviour yesterday was enchanting; Such a manly - tenderness when he addressed Eliza, and at the Same time So much easy politeness ta the rest of the company, that it was impossible not to admire him. I have often heard it remarked, that a wedding day must of necessity be a stupid one; this was quite the reverse, for my own part I have not been in Such good Spirits for Some time past; it was a real Satisfaction to me to see my friend give her hand to a man, who appeared every way calculated to make her happy.
The
v/reath 6t .
l6j
The company was not large. Mrsj Morton was there of course Her hap piiiess, poor woman! was of that kind, which may be felt but not described.

She loves Eliza with the
tenderness of a. parent, and could not look steadfastly at her all the day without her eyes being filled with tears. I can readily suppose many ideas would obtrude themselves, when Ihe considered that not long ago all her felicity arose from being united to the man, whose place se}'mour at present occupiesi Tho’ L am certain her joy was fincereupon this occasion; yet it is natural to imagine, that it would be of the pathetic kind. Mr Watson performed the ceremony.
therefore of course, he and hb
*
Were present at dinner; Mn Hargrave, a near neighbour of eliza’s, who has at different times been very Serviceable
*<
i
l65 WRUATH OF .
able to her in transasling money matters, a6led in the capacity of father His vvise, and a niece from London, who is at present paying them a visit, made the whole of our party. miss Hargrave is a Smart pretty, little girl, much Superior to the City miss we had
I think She would
have been a very fine girl, hut llie has
at Livinglton.
I
very
fashionable boarding
School,
which has given the poor young lady rather too high an opinion of her own accomplishments; and the little phrase owe dofo in Lown, She finds very applicable upon all occasions.
I
file
has, Somehow or other, contrived to make an acquaintance amohgfi the officers of the guards; and they are
in' her estimation, the criterion of
every


'F 9
’ OP . IO
everything that is great, elegant, or accomplished.
it unfortunately brought to
After dinner, we had infensbly, drawn Lord Malbourne to Speak of his travels in Germany. He was .giving us a very interesting account of the country,, and the manners of the people; happening to mention nightly the discipline of the Prussian troops,
miss hargrave’s recollection( (
I
had kept a painful silence Some time) an anecdote of a friend ofher’s in the guards. She made not the leaf!. Scruple of interrupting his Lordship, and wry obligingly related the whole story, which took up above half an hour in telling. Not that there was much in the story, but it was interlarded with So many pretty exclamations, and French phrases, that if you have ever so great
ait

i68 wrtath OF rrtendshif*.
hn inclination to hear it, my dear Selina, you muftexcuse my repeating it) for I declare myself perfectly unqiia lified to give even the pith, if, by the
by, it had any in it. She had however
»
so effeitluallv broken the thread of Mai
*/
narrative, that all attempts to join It again were ineffedlual; and
we Soon after left the room.
In the
\
evening we had a little concert; miss Hargrave favoured us with several of the mod fadiionable Italian airs. You tannot imagine how many ways She found of charming usi I began ti
4
fuppose before the day was over, that tho’ Lord Malbourne had not the honour to hold a commifiion. in the guards, yet a little of his attention would be tolerably received by the young lady; to say truth, it would encrease her consequence not a little,
to
 OF FRIENTSHTF.
to be introduced in town, by the title of Lady Malbourne*
The Servant is just arrived with all your congratulatory epillles; and what is much more valuable to me, has brought me your’s, my dear Selina. How much do I with I had been at home at this time. L am afraid Lord Weftbury will be gone before I can polsibly return again; but you musl:, my beloved friend, exert all your fortitude upon this trying occasion. I well know how much you will both 'eel, but as the evil feemis at present to be inevitable, we mull submit with patience, and look forward with hope to more Smiling days of peace and tranquillity. Tell him I like the idea of becoming his correspondent amazingly; we have long called each other friend, and I hope now to

Vol, II
I
reap
iyijo  OF frlehdshijp.
reap both amusement and jnflrudior from the title.
d am extremely pained that my mother should imagine I Suffer anything on drummond’s account. I did not think that Ihe fuspeded me of ever having had the penchant for him; and I likewise thought I had too much fal volatile in my composition, to have forever freed me from the charge of, hopeless love. Neither my mother nor you mufl ever indulge one Serious thought upon thatfubjed. I frankly acknowledge, I did at one x\mq very much A dm ire Mr. Drummond,; there is a ctnkm something in his conversation and manner, that is exactly Suited to my taste; but circumstances have So happened since that time, that though I Shall ever most lin,, pray for his happines§, I have
not
r •
 ,
II
Rot one wiili remaining to share it ■\yithliim. You will believemy Selina, when it is ferioujly attested the hand of your
\ytiha iiarcouyu
L E T T E R LII
Mils Loundey^ to Lady Julia Harcourt.
linjingfion abbeyy July 13s
ORD and Lady St. Clair are just gone to take their morning’s airing. I have excused myself from attending them, that I might indulge myselfin dedicating one hoar to you,, my dear Julia. But I am afraid it is a Selfilli gratification: for I feel mv Spirits at present too much oppressed
I z
to
1^2  OF FRIENBSHIT.
. ••
to permit, my Society being any amusement;; is only .to indulge my Sorrow, by;, pouring it into the bosom of
, that has at this time in
••
m, e to take up my pen.
This day Lord Weftbury leaves our neighbourhood, and Sets out for Sir Henry drummond’s previous to his going abroad. I am rather apprehensive he is already gone. You can Scarce imagine how much that idea torments me. Tho’ I dreaded, beyond anything, to take leave of him, yet So weak, So inconsistent am I, that it mortifies me beyond expression to think he Should leave the Kins ^
O
dom without feeing me. He Spent the evening with us yesterday;; he went away, he Said he. should call to take leave of us this moi'ninp; but
, U)
at the dine he Spoke he lool: ed at me
with
 .
173,
with So much tenderness, that I even
then dreaded his intention.
This
morning has confirmed all my fears, for I am certain he must have Set for ■ before this time; and yet, believe me, Julia, I have not strength of mind enough to venture to make an inquiry. I now think it would have been a greater Satisfaction to have Seen him once morej yet why do I think so? reason and refledibn perhaps
s
will Soon convince me that it is better as it is.
Pen at night'.
4
I was agreably interrupted in the ■ mid ft of all my conje<5tures and petulance, by the entrance of lod wefl bury. I felt as much relieved for the moment, as if he had absolutely put off his journey; but this pleasing de
J 3
lusion

h4  .
/
Iiifion was of Short continuance, and my imagination inslantly returned to all the miseries of separation. It was in vain I endeavoured to conceal my emotion. He Seated himself by me, and taking my hand with infinite tenderness, attempted to Sooth my mind by drawing me into a little conver
\
He Spoke of his journey, of the time he thought it probable he should be absent, of the infinite pleasure he ihouid have in once more returning to his native country, and of the joy with which he flattered himself I should receive him after such an absence. Hk emotion was all the time evident, though he made many efforts to suppress it Several times as he Spoke, his fine eyes glistened; i.could not refrain my
tears; it was a moment of tenderness;
#
perhaps
 .
17c
perhaps even you, my Julia, will blame me for being too explicit, but when he urged me on the Subject I laid open my whole heart to him, and vowed eternal unchangeable alfedion. He Spent two hours with me; had it not been embittered by the reflection that we were So Soon to part, I should have Said two delightfulhoms.
At lall, as if recollecting himself, he started from his seat, and clafpin me with fervour to hisbreaft, he exclaimed, ‘‘farewel, beloved of my soul! Though you have for the present. banished me from your presence, yet your blessed idea will be the cheating companion of my existence; and ini; whatever realms fortune or chance. Ihali place me. Still the pleasmg re fleslion that I am loved by you, will. pi eferve me/rom despondence. But,,
I A
ray;;
1
 OF frienb'shtfv
my Selina, be caieful; for my Sake, be careful of your health; remember the life ofthy Weftbiiry is bound up in thine,; and unless you, my beloved girl, are in full polsellion of cafe and comfort, I can never enjoy one moment’s Satisfaction” ” was much aifedfed as he Spoke these last words, his voice faltered, and he could hardly articulate them. At the Same time, shipping a Small shagreen cafe into my hand, he disappeared in an instant.
You, my friend, will judge of my situation., I sat Some minutes motionless. Scarcely conscious of my existence y at last I exclaimed, ‘‘ Is he reallygone?” The exertion I made to Speak was the means of relieving me, by producing a violent Ihower of tears, which I believe preserved me
from
 . 177
•c
from fainting. As Soon as I had per fe6uy recovered my recplleftion, .1 opened the case; it contained a miniature picture, a Striking resemblance of himself.. ‘^‘ !’* Said I, “how Soon are all our earthly ■ comforts torn from us? how Short is the time since I enjoyed the Society of my ■ Viteflbury; Since I daily beheld him and conversed with him; and now rnuft all my consolation be fixed upon this piece of inanimate painting! Yet even this will I cherish, because it bears his resem,
,
blance; it’fhall be the companion of all my grief and unavailing tearsd^. I am ashamed to confess all my weak ~ even to you, my Julia, who view ■ all my actions with the eyes of ;
but it is Some ease to my full.
%
swollen heart, to, give it, vent oven in; this ..manner. ■

‘i.

I -5
V erv
lys  .
Very fortunately form, Lcrd and Lady St. Clair did not return, till late. Your dear mother fuiters too feelingly for the distresses of others to torment a wounded heart. She took no notice of my uneasiness, but related tome, with her usqal good-humour, all. the little circumstances Ihe had met
with in her morning’s excursion. She
#
afterwards talked to me of your return,, of the pleasure two stich friends muff have ill meeting, even after so short am absence, of Several little Schemes and; plans Ihe had formed for our amusement. This subject; was infinitely too, tenderwhilft Ihe Spoke on indifferent;, things, I could give her an anfwei', but, now I found it, impossible to Speak; I could not.help accusing myself of in gratitude for not entering with, more chearfulness into the Schemes.
«
Lady St., clair’s goodness had formed


to
 , ly^^
to dissipate my melancholy. Tho’ I looked forward with infinite joy to the time of your return, yet parties ' and excursions, without' Wellbury,. were So little to my satisfaction.. my heart lickened at theidea of them.. In Short, there was a void in my own ■ bread:, and I Fancied it* was in the. whole creation I inuft once again repeat the wilh, that I poffelfed a little: of your, fortitude,, my friend. »
How often have I seen you converse " with smiles to Lord and Lady St. Clair ^ Ihavdknown your heart to be ' lorn with'anguilh’? It is certainly a i duty we owe our friends, and society.. conceal.in some degree our feelings, when they give pain; to those about
us; but you mull, my Julian: pity and' forgive the weakness of your:
Selina c'iuriney. ■
LET ER -
/
 OP frfendshitrf
LETTER
Lltl.
» V »
Lord Wejihury, to.the Rev. Edward.
Seymour,,
July 14.
rf >hat I have not written to you
before this time, my dear Sir, has not been owing to a want of respect, or a proper fenfo of that friend’* Ship you extend to me, but to the, unpleasant date of my own mind; of which indeed my last letter would al ford you but too true a specimen.
C
In addressing myself to you, I feel aflramed of the petulance and repining, so visible in that epistle; and
would
  ll
■would willingly atone for indiscretions So apparent; but if I were to excuse myself by saying my passions had at that moment got the dominion, the apology would certainly in your eyes agravate the offence; tho^'perhaps it was at that moment the' only one I ' could make. Nothing is So fatal to us as too great a confidence in our own
s
strength; it is always Safer, I believe to diftrusb, rather than think, ourselves, too Secure; in future 1 mean to conquer only by standing on the defensive, for love is too powerful an. enemy to be opposed in single combat
9
when our auxiliary, reason, is laid
I wotild not have you imagine that I feel less affection for Selina than I
ever did since first we met; but I feel
/
it.in a different manner. It is no longer
that

isz  .
that impetuous pahion that bore down all before it, it is now calm and tranquil; her Superior reason and conduct have restored me to my senses; and tho’ I Still live only to love her, it is Such a Sentiment as prefers her hap piness and repose to every felfilh consideration. In one circumstance, have I differed from her in opinion, but inclined to it myself, and authorised by your Superior judgement, I have refilled even her tears; but I do it as the thing most likely to expedite our happiness, and the mosl probable means of inclining my father to consent to it.:. In consequence of this resolution 1 have parted from all I hold dearest in the world, my father, and my Selina. When we Shall meet again, heaven knows 1 were I inclined to judge of ray own agitation at this event with any fp^k ct fuperflitionj I Ihouldfear
i
our

 . 1s5.
4
our Separation would be long and;, melancholy.
Had Lord Mordington given me the I'eaft hint of his disapprobation of this Step, r would have remained with him at all events; but he made not the. lead objection, nor ever alked me how near, or how distant was my return; I can truly Say it, is in his pow -- er to make my absence long or Short. I Suffer So miigli from his displeafure, that I would give up every point hut one to'banilh it; alas, that one is all he insifts on 1 But a truce to complaint; should I continue this drain, I shall relapse again, and be the very character I wilh to avoid, and which I am Sure you could not
esteem.
Qn. i.



<•

184  .
On my arrival here, I found poor Drummond in Sad Spirits, nor do I think his health yet well eflablilhed. Indeed the mind and body are So closely united, that when the one is ill at ease, the other cannot be well. He has yet had no answer to his letter, and is • in the moil disagreeable
*
fuspense.
Mis excellent mother, whb watches every turn of his expressive countenance, pines in Secret, and seems to dread the approach of every post,
which Ihe experts will bring the death
✓
warrant of her son’s happiness.; justly supposing, that an offer of Such a hand, and Such a fortune will not be refused. I own I wilh to know his fate before I leave England, but I cannot 'Wak much longer Should the winds prove fair. 1 have,, taken my passage to
3paini;


I
■if
I
Spain'; which tour, I prefer at present as capable of affording me more variety than
or Italy, both of which I am well acquainted with. Wherever I go I hope for a continuance of your friendihip, a consolation I much need. By this time I fancy you ought to receive my congratulations on your union. Believe me, no one can be more sincere in offering you every good wish on that occafioni to Mrs. Seymour, ( as the friend of my Selina, and the object of your attachment) I beg my moil respectful re ^ membrances.
When it will not interrupt your happiness, I could wish you would sometimes cast a thought on your Avandering friend, who is at all times ind in all seasons, your mofl devoted
LETTER
e86.’  0? frienhsirie’i
LETTER LIV
Julia har&ourti to Miss Courtne%
Wansford.houpy July lb,
N Saturday, my dear Selina, L hope to enjoy the Society of my belt friends in the Sweet Ihades of li vingfton. And tho’ I always part with my Eliza with the mod heartfelt regret, yet upon this occasion I feel Satisfied that I am returning home. I think lately you have wanted the Sooth’^ ing endearments of a friend that loves you as I do. I am certain my mother would do all in her power to amusc you, yet to me perhaps you will lay open your whole heart with more un
confidence than you pos
sibly

. . 187
sibly can to her. We will talk over again those Scenes which for Some time
4
past have contributed So largely to your happiness; and look forward, with an eye of hope and confidence, to many future years of felicity. We. will wander in those groves where Weftbury used to be our constant companion. But I already fancy I see the crystal tear starting in, your eye; and will not lead your imagination to dwell upon Scenes which are. not proper for you even to think of, till I am with you, to check you, when you give too much way to Sorrow.
But let us talk of our proceedings here. We have had none of that unmeaning form which is in general the constant attendant on; a wedding;. We were at church on Sunday, but
did
I
 OF FRIENDSHIF
‘ T
did not, according to the
modem;
phrase, appear there, to the great
hindrance of all our country neigh
bour’s devotion. We went in undress,
and Mr. Seymour alhfted as
usual in the Service; where I cannot
help Saying, he appears to great ad
vantage; but he indeed performs
everything well he undertakes. He
is an exemplary young man; the more

I know of him the higher his character
rises in my estimation.
We Spent the afternoon as the' family
of the red or ought to do; in conversing
on Serious subjects. Lord
Malbourne is well qualified to hold
his share in such dialogues; he is Sensible
and agreeable, but in my mind
he wants that Spirit and animation,
which makes his friend Drummond
So pleasing. I believe Eliza gives the
pre
 OF FRI ENDSHIP. 1s9
prrcference to Malbourne; you know ihe always thought Drummond too lively. I don’t think Mr. Seymour quite of her opinion in that point, as it is easy to perceive that he is very partial to Drummond; but they will neither of them speak their sentiments before me.
I have been much embarralted with Lord malbourne’s particular attention to me. I still Hatter myself his only intention is to Show those little gallantries which our being inmates in the Same house naturally leads him to; and that when I am gone, he will think no more of me; at least I sincerely hope, that is the cafe, as I would not on any account receive an offer at present which my father might think eligible, as my rejection of him, which would indisputably be
the
s
190

die case, might lead him to harbour suspicions which would diftress me beyond exprehion.
As the neighbourhood is too Small to admit of receiving visits in form, they all dined with us yesterday;; this evening we are to Spend at Mr. hargrave’s. You may exped me to Import a great many of the young lady’s fine airs; if 1 do mot, I Shall ac ^ufe myself of being a very dull scholar, for She is not at all sparing of her
i^ftons. She has got the most unaccountable
rage for the country upon her just now, that can be, and 1 verily believe her whole pleasure consists in
the thoughts of tellin
her 'friends in

town, what immense felicity she enjoyed at Wansford. We have fiequently called upon her to walk, I preferred it to a tete a tele with Malbourne,
when
 OF FRIENTSHIF
II
'•when our friends could not be of the party; and I fancy by that meai^ have got exceedingly into her good •graces; for it is not an unusual thing for her to be entirely of Lady julid.s '■opinion, when I have scarcely spoken npon the fubjefl.
You niust not expel; me till late in the evening, as our good friends here propose setting me halfway,, and we

dinher
■cannot imagine, my clear Selina, what joy the thoughts of beholding you, gives to the heart of jour
.Julia iiarepuft*
LETTER

10^

LETTER LV
Mrs. Scudamore, to miss Darnley
July 2.
My Dear Friend,
Y a pacquet we have had the good fortune to meet with at St. Helena, and which will be at home in all probability long before us, I send you orixana’s narrative. I have fcrawled it during our passage, which • has been sofar favourable, and quick; and I am become quite a sailor, and hardly feel any inconvenience from my. change of situation. But I have no time for dwelling on my own affairs, and must refer you for entertainment to the following Sheets,
which

N
 of frieitdshif. 193
which contain, as near as I can recoiled, the Substance, and the words of my friend’s melancholy fate.
Orixana and myself were sitting at work one morning in my apartment, when looking up from Something f. had been very intent upon, and which, for Some time had prevented my speaking, I Saw with concern that lier
eyes were flowing with tears
her
work had fallen from her hand, and afilidion Seemed to have taken fok
And
can
poiteflion of every feeling what my dear friend, ” Said I,
at this moment have occasioned this burst of grief? what has discomposed you? tell me, that I may have it in my power to atone for the uneafiness which!, or any in this house may have been the innocent cause of? Tell me, I beg of you, that I may once more be
Vol. IL
>ie
194  OF FRIENDSHI?.
able to offer Some alleviation to your | Sufferings, of which indeed I am ignorant, but by their effe6l.’^
In a few minutes Ihe was again composed; and taking my hand, and killing it affectionately, said, “No, Madam, cannot do anything that is contrary to the happiness of a human creature; it was recollection, cruel recollection, that caused those involuntary tears! I was Ihedding them for the misfortunes which
t
clouded the day of my birth, of which this is the anniversary. To you, my benefactrefs and my friend, I ought to have no concealments. Your Sympathising heart will pity the wretch your reason may Sometimes condemn, but whose pc’.haps have almost balanced her faults. In vain you try to lead me to
hap
sufferings may
wieath OF . i9j
1 happiness; that has been long buried in the grave of my hus band and my child, who are now numbered with the dead, and forgot, no doubt, by every heart but mine; there they will live whilst memory remains. Sometimes I fancy that nty Charles may still be acting the part
of itiy guardian, and in the form of
• t
those angelic beings he ever emulated, hasconduded me to your friehdfliipi ’tis the first cordial I have tailed for fourteen yearsj but much farther I look back ere I commence my history
>>

Alas, Madam, it is unwar
ds of
forty years Since the Sun in all its Splendour rose on my parents; • it Saw them blelsed in tranquillity, in mutual love, and domestic happiness; it beheld my father, the prince and governor of a province, rich in every
K 2

/
1^6  .
thing that could add power or grandeur to himself, and plenty to his fub jeds. On my mother, nature had Showered her choicest gifts; born of the race descended from the immortal Tamerlane, She poffelted in the highest degree, those charms of complexion for which he was esteemed. She was fair as the daughters of Europe; tall, and exquisitely formed as the cedars of the forest;; was in her mein, but Oie commanded only by the affection. Thus situated, they wanted nothing to complete their measure of felicity, but Some happy pledges of their love; they waited for this event with anxious exnedtations.
i
Thus did their Sun rise, but how did it Set? That wealth, those treasures that he prized, were to him the occasion of all his misfortunes.’’
‘ ‘ One
  i97
“One of those rapacious Britons, whose trade it is to destroy, had long viewed with an envious eye, that gold he could by no just means poffess; and that peaceable dispolition he had failed to imitate. He at last threw aside all caution, and Summoned my father to attend a tribunal he had inscituted, and answer for supposed crimes, which
Seized by ilratagem, hurried away from his province, his home, and his happiness, he was conveyed to Calcutta, and left in the depth of a dungeon, there to bemoan his misery, and guess at the caiise which had laid him So krw.”
he himself had forged.
f
“This step was taken with Such precipitation, that my mother was not made acquainted with it till Some hours after. Sequeftered in the solitude of the Zanana, fuspicion had not
K
even
/
IS  .
even whispered the event. Her friends at last found it impossible longer to conceal the tidings, which they were afraid might in her situation, perhaps, have dreadful consequences. Made acquainted with the fate of her husband, her mind at once Suggefted all there was to fear; and Ihe determined
to hazard everything that despairing
%
could inspire, or fortitude attempt.

if
She waited not till morning to put her designs in execution. She jiscended her palanquin, and fet out on this forlorn enterprise, attended by numerous friends, and crowds of Slaves; all willing to die in the cause, could their lives pay the price of their masters fansom.”
4(
She


  i99
t
She arrived, wearied and almofi: distracted by her impatience, and her fears, an hour before my father was to be carried before jridge, whose
eyes were blinded by, gold, whose heart was impenetrable, and whose hands had been imbrued in the blood of thoiisands. Before this rapacious inhuman governor did the mild and beneficent Rajah appear, clothed in all the purity of innocence

^h’he charges were exhibited against him; proofs brought by men as corrupt as the judge; and the unfortunate Raj ah not suffered to plead his own cause, nor contradict one article aliedged against him. In vain his friends offered treasure after treasure; still in hopes to extract more, all they offered was too little to satisfy the rapacious desires of his unjust persecutor. All the wealth'
K 4
of
J
200  .
of the province was laid at his feet; it was all inadequate; but if he could by any means, add another lack to what was in his power, his sentence might be mitigated. At this moment, my mother, who on my father’s leaving the dungeon, fainted in the arms
of her attendants, appeared in court; die implored, She entreated. She knelt and wept;. and in all the agony of
grief, begg’d only if one was to be a
victim, file herself might fulfer. Alas, the very means Ihe took to five him, aimed the Sabre at his head.’*
Her beauty, heightened by her tears, became an objc6l of admiration, and added one more passion to the bread of her persecutor!! vain now was the offer of additional bribes; his crimes were blackened, not to be expiated by gold or diamonds; he was
ordered

 . 20t
ordered to immediate execution; and not even a pairing embrace allowed this saithsul pair. Naj?’, the Sentence was executed before the e}’’es of my distracted mother! How often has She
painted to me the horrors of that day,
♦
fearful that my young heart should not feel with her own enthusiasm, .the detestation dtie.to such a tyranti” "'
She was hurried away from a light' so terrible, to thehouse of the moniler, who supposed it possible fly might in time forget her wrongs, and listen .to his detested passion. No Sooner arrived there, than the pangs of' labour were added to her other sufferings. I came into the world at this inauspicious moment, when no parent’s smile beamed' upon me, as an earnest of future joy;, and misery and Woe received me to arms. How constantly Save'
K

they
J
102  OF FRIENOSHI?.
they since guarded my footsteps, and
desended every avenue where tran
r
quility was inclined to enter! But I
lived unhurt by the bitter milk I drew,
and bathed in the sorrowsul tears of a
mother who dragged on life only for

my Sake. Ah! had we then died together,
of how much anguilla Should I
have been Spared the recital

A Silent calm occupied the apartment
of my mother, and Seemed to
take poffeifion of everything but her
perturbed bosom. One faithful Have
ofall that attended her journey, was
Suffered to remain. From her She
learned, that the province, of which my
father had been governor, had risen to
revenge his murder; and had brought
fire and Sword to the gates of Calcutta;
that the General had been obliged to.
deseit his new acquired treasures, and
was
'VI'

■vt



W 4; V
; • ' ' \
i v n N


\
 .
ICA
was gone at the head of his troop s to quell this infurre6lion. This was the reason of his never having been Seen by my mother since that fatal moment. How much did Ihe rejoice at this intelligence! what blessings did (lie not call down on those brave avengers, and imprecations on the heads of their enemies.^’
‘‘ It was some months before the conquerer returned; but he came crowned with victory, laden with. wealth, insolent with fuccess, proud with profperity.’’^
The treasure he had left behind was not forgotten, but love was not his predominent passion, it yielded toi

ambition. The day after his return he Sent to acquaint his prisoner that he Iliouldwait upon her, and hoped Ihe
would
%
\
a04  .
hearing ?’*
would give him a patient “Tell him, Said Ihe, I am his Have, I once bore a nobler title V’ He came; at that instant, as if by instinct, I Ihrieked, and hid my face on the bosom of my parent, as if unable to bear the sight of my father’s murderer. Often did file afterwards repeat to me all these circumllances, and thanked the power that inspired my heart with a horror So just. He was going to Speak, when holding me in her arms She Said, ^‘here Sir, behold a part of that being you pursued with Such unrelenting rigour. I have preserved her, that by your kindness Ihe might be joined to her father, in those realms of happiness where he is now tailing everlasting pleasures; removed from the avarice of the Europeans, he is now twilling garlands of never fading
xoses to adorn his beauteous daughter.

 . 205
There he poirdfes gold of which you cannot despoil him, and diamonds, more bright than those of Golconda; finish a work then So nobly begun, Satiate your eyes with blood, your heart with anguish, but know, your triumph is Still incomplete, foryou have no power over the mind; that rises above the
i
mandate of the judge, or the ftrok^ of the fabre.’^
‘^he was impatient to reply, and to, put an end to reproaches So defervedc and words So penetrating; and in the most humble, most obsequious manner told her, he acknowledged all his faults, and came to implore her ior giveness; and if polfible to beg an int

terest in her heart, which had the power to command his, and everything that belonged to him. That he would return to her all her treasure, if She
would

f
2o6  .
would but allow him Sometimes to convince her of the strength of his attachment, and to prove to her how violent was his passion which alone was the cause of her husbands death, as he could not exist while he had a rival in her alfedions.’^
How strange an argument, and how weak to suppose it could have any weight !’*
‘‘ Doll thou know, infamous usurper, to whom thou talked:? ( replied my enraged mother) doll thou know, mean as thou art, that the blood of the great Tamerlane flows in my veins; that I am the daughter and wi dow of a prince; and doll thou think I can Stoop to thee P thou, whose hands are not yet washed from the blood of my husband! but know, weak man,
that

?N
 .
207

that thy love or hate, are alike indifferent to me! that Orixana knows how
«
to free herself from the hands of a tyrant At these words Ihe drew from her lide a dagger, which Ihe had concealed there, and was going to plunge it in her bread:; when the monster, aware of her intentions, seized it at that moment, and wrenched it from her hand, and turning from her with a Stern and angry look. Said, “for the future I Shall know how to treat you, ” and immediately withdrew.”
‘‘all hopes of escaping from her prison were now at an end. The governor, exasperated with her behaviour, deprived her of every indul
; hoping, that what he could not obtain from love, he might extort from fear. No longer was her own faithful Slave permitted to attend her;
gence
new
}

. /
Si
2o8  .
new guards were Set over her, and (lie was threatened with the loss of me, if file Should remain unpropitious to her maker’s will. Sometimes he came to vifither, to See if die relented, but no change appeared; he would attempt to Soothe and entertain me; but able
now to underhand the injury he had
«
done me, all his blandilhments were vain! Thus did four long years roll over, under the roof of one, whose pride and revenge only could be gratified by such captives; Seldom leaving our apartment, my ideas did not expand, and the. language I Spoke was confined to a Small comoass. The
X
beauties of nature I knew nothing of; and the walls of our prison bounded my knowledge and my acquirements.




\
MU

20®
“One night, when sleep, our only comfort, had laid his leaden hand on our fenses, we were disturbed with an unusual noise and bustle, which, accustomed as we were to fear, was very alarming. Our door was Suddenly unlocked, but no one came; and again all was still and Silent. After a little pause, our own faithful Have appeared, hasten. Said She, this moment away; his the only instant in which you can recover your liberty. The governor is Superceded, and another is arrived, and he is now attending the council; all in this house is confusion and dismay;; do not you delay a moment to free yourself from a piifon; they are all alike tyrants, and not to
tj
be trufied.’*

V
We arose; die led us by the hand thro’ a long range of Splendid
apartments

r •

lo  .
apartments, and thro’ crowds in The
Streets we palfed iinobservcd, being in
the habit of dependents; for after my
mother’s first; interview with the governor
all pomp, or even convenience
of dress, was‘denied us. The Sun just
rising above the horizon, caused, to
eyes So long deprived of his Splendour,
a painful sensation;; feet nnused
to exercise, Seemed unwilling to assist
us in our hight; and our guide was
obliged to carry me in her arms; who.
terrified at sights So new to me, had
neither Strength nor courage to proceed.
At last we found ourselves out
of the town. Wearied with the exertion,
my mother beg’d only to sit down
upon the burning ground, but her at
tendant allowed her not to rest till we
arrived at the house of a Hindoo,
where the Banians take up their abode
when wandering from province to province.



 . 211
I
vince. In this hospitable hut we were
^ •
refreshed with fruits and water. An old Banian was sitting there, our Have Spoke to him, and asked his guidance to where my mother chose to go. He agreed to wait her pleasure, and when the Sun Should be gone down, to at tend onr journey. It was Settled in the course of the day, that a village on the banks of the Ganges Should be our refiling place; there it was possible we might find Some friends or relations, if haply war had left one whom We could call by those endearin
names.

‘^this was once the habitation of a long train of illustrious ancestors; and Hill dear to my mother from being the place of her birth, “There, Said fiie, I can wash this infant from the pollution Ihe has undergone from the handa

ot
X
Ic

212  OF FRIENDSHI’P
of Europeans; there I can offer ray prayers to that deity, who delighting in good works, detests these bloody tyrants; and will Soraetime revenge ray, .cause. There too, perhaps, he will receive from me this wretched life preserved only till my child is placed in safety” ” Sat out weak and fainting, how llowly did we proceed; every step was attended with pain and anguish, and we had no conversation to beguile the tedious way. Though everything was new to me, I had not words to express either my pleasure, my pain, or my Surprise. Resting in the daytime, and travelling in the night, it was a month ere we reached the dettined spot; charity having Supplied our wants all the way, for we pofteffed nothing. We reached, it is true the destined Spot, but ah, how changed! ail was ruin, all was devastation! War,
with
/
%

■ .

with her cruel hand, had levelled the
lately edifices, and laid wade a fruitful
country; a few Scattered huts now
formed the villas; e, once so maanifi
o

cent, that had been the teat of my
grandfather, and of his
race, who for
ages had lived on that ground, op
preteed by no foreign foe, and blessed
with domestic peace. Nothing
remained of its former appearance, but
the spreading tree under which the
youths were taught by some venerable
man, the truths of their religion, the
rudiments of their language, and the
arts of peace. We approached near,
and beheld, a man, hoary and bent
with years, inflrudling, on this very
Spot, a group of attentive little
ones.
52
How did my heart beat, and how
little did 1 know the cause of its feelings

#
V

ii wrrath OF friendshlfi
ings! My mother let go my hand | in a moment She was at the feet of the Sage, bathing them with rears, clasp ing his knees, and in all the agony of joy calling him her father! her dear father! It was he himself, that venerable man! What were his transports when he beheld his daughter, his long lost daughter 1 the idol of his heart! for whom he had mourned four tedious years, restored to hiiti again! it was herself, his heart acknowledged her; thomiis dim eyes, flowing with tears, could hardly discern a form stili lovely, as grief had wafted half its beauty, and destroyed both the lily and the rofes^
‘^how joyfully did he lead us to his cottage, and make us the partakers of his fcantf board; for he had lost all his
ions
t.
J
 OF FRIENTSHIF.
215
polfeffions in the war that robbed him of his children, and was obliged now to make his knowledge Subfervient to his Support. On me he bestowed his paternal blessing, calling me his Second Orixana! Informed of all that happened since their first Separation,
I
he hastened with my mother, to plunge me in the waves of the Ganges; that River whose waters purify the departing Soul, and the body of the polluted.^’
This accomplillied, my mother began by degrees to open her grand design, that of burning herself to the memory and honour of her lamented husband. In vain, when I was acquainted with her intentions, did I weep, pray, and entreat that Ihe would quit this Sad and fatal resojution! I
represented to her that our father was
/
now
IZI's  .
now old, that many years could not be, expe6led to prolong his life, that then, forlorn and helpless I Hiould be abandoned to distress and poverty; unable from my sexto struggle ■ diiecul ties, impossible to surmount them. In vain did I urge every fond argument my heart could fugged.”
CC prevent me not, Ilie Said, from fulfilling the duty T owe to the Spirit of my departed husband, who waits for me in those fragrant and everladin bowers, where no longer an earthly prince, he sits commanding hods of subjects Slaughtered in his cause; and whose padime it now is, to persecute, to torment, with never ending tortures, those rapacious foreigners.”
\
He Sees the purpose of my hearty and Smiles on thy fears. Behold then,
I
coward
 .
217
coward girl! the pile already preparing, on which my wearied head Oiall rest from all its cares! the God of our fathers will protect thy innocence. Fear not, but see with admiration the actions and the principles of thy mo there; .whose love for thee is but a poor and secondary consideration, when Set in competition with her fame here, and glory hereafter! Live to comfort my aged parent, and to imitate the virtues I now endeavour to illuftrates’ My grandfather used every argument to dilfuade her from this enthusiastic effort of constancy; but the Brahmins, too much attached to their long eftablilhed, though in this respeft, inhuman principles, applauded her design. ’^
‘ ^ The fatal day at last arrived! I saw her walk round the pile, cele
L brating
Voi. II
 or FRIEIIDSHI?,
Lrating the virtues of him ihe was So soon to join; I felt the parting embrace! I saw her at the appointed moment ascend without one fond regret! I Saw no more! Infenlible to everything but her loss, I awaked not from my stupor, till, born by our friends to the house of my grandfather, their cruel attentions restored me again to life, ”
I heard now nothing but praises of the courage, the magnanimity of my lost parent! I saw not
\
the at in that light; I felt nothing but Sorrow: for nothing could restore to me the blehings of her Society, or compensate the loss of her advice. But,
grief in young minds is not without consolation; time wears out the deep traces of affliction, and youth is never
the nurse of woe.”
((
From
V.
 .
219
From this time four Succeeding years were pafb in a Hate of tranquillity that Scarcely marked their course. My grandfather continued his occupation of instruction'; and I, careless and happy, danced with the village girls, and Sung away the Sultry hours under the Shade of Some Spreading tree. But felicity and content are short-lived. ^ War again raised her horrid cresl; and fury and destruction Spread terror and
r
dismay over every heart. My only parent, worn down with age, sunk to the earthhelpless and enervated, and expired in my arms just as the enemy entered the town. Unmoved by the shouts of the Soldiers, or the cries of the people, I hung over his cold and venerable corse, insensible to everything but the misery of the moment; and Was only roused by a feapoy, who dragged me from the body, and pre
L 2
fented


220.  .
fented me to his commanding officer; whojinformed of the situation in which I had been found, permitted me to see the last duty paid to my grandfather; his body plunged in the Ganges, and
his soul freed from all its incum
%
brances. I was then sent to his tent, and treated with all the respedt I could desire, and much more than' I expected. Yes! this acknowledgement is due from my ungrateful heart to one who afterwards used me so cruelly.’’
The conquest and the plunder of this devoted province at an end, I moved with the army, and in time was brought to Madras. There I vas consigned to the wife of the of
She,
kind and benevolent, took me under her own care; had me baptised, in ftrufled me in the truths of her
ficer, whose captive I was
re --
OF . 221
religion, and took every means to promote my liappiness. How Sweetly
did those days glid
away
r! Remembrance
would gladly rest on them, and look neither on the part nor on the future. How tranquil was my heart! how gay and how cheerful! with w’hat avidity did I receive the inftruccions of my patroness I how did I glory in learning all her accomplishments; in imitating her manners, in catching her very thoughts and looks.’*

‘‘ This is thereason, Madam, I am become So like an Englifti woman, a remark you have often made. Hoyv proud should I once have been of a compliment So flattering to my wifhesl. and what pleasure did I feel when my friend commended my assiduity, and was pleased with my attention. Often did die affure me her Son and myself


L 3
were

222  OF FRIENDSHIF.
were equal in her heart. Her husband too, whose nature was rough and Severe, put off that character in his behaviour to me, and I forgot that he was an enemy and a conqueror. But, the religion I had been taught since I had been his property, Softened that hati jd which the principles of my mother had imprinted; and tho’ I Saw how little it in general influenced the a<5lions of its votaries, I only lamented their weakness in not making themoft perfect of all examples their line of condu6l. My own errors afterwards proved to me what dangerous enemies are our passions; and how easy it is to preach,, how d\ki.cx\\tto praflicev
“I had paflted five years in this State of tranquillity, when the Son of my benefactors arrived. He had been a writer in the company’s Service at
Bombay,
4
4/
 . 225
Bombay, and was removed to Madras to the no Small delight of his fond parents. I joined sincerely in the joy this event occasioned, and met him with all the ardour of youth inspired by gratitude, and the desire to prove myself worthy the (hare I possessed in his mother’s heart. Candid, generous, open,.
sincere! Envy harboured not io hi

breast; nor any of those vices which too frequently debase the most beauteous forms. He was everything a father could desire his Son Should be; everything the fondest, the moil partial mother’s imagination could paint. Manly graces, gentle virtues, were in him So happily blended, that if you will allow me an hyperbolical expression.
Nature seemed in his formation to
$
have exhausted all her treasure, and left nothing for Art to add to. Such was Charles Wentworth! Strange was
L 4
the
y
224 'of .
effect 1 felt from, his presence; no longer lively, giddy, and impetuous, in a moment I became timid. Silent and fearful. I raised not my eyes to his; I did nothing but listen to his conversation. My friend, engrossed by her own feelings, observed not mine; and I recovered my \yonted manners ere She discovered I had ever altered them

Thus blessed in the Society of all my soul held dear, months and days palled over, and the lapse of time was never noticed. Unnoticed too, was the State of my heart, till Charles Wentworth began to beg alhare in it. Alas! it had been his from the firll moment of our meeting. Artless and ingenuous I endeavoured not to conceal from him my Sentiments; but I felt & conscioufnefs that to his parents I
could
 .
225
CO aid not reveal the Same Secret; and I found his fears on that subject ac corded with my own. If we continued our attachment, it was necelfary to devise some plan to deceive them, and love is never flow. I had learned from the precepts of my benefadrefs, the infamy, attending the indulgence of lawless passion;; I listened, to my lover on no terms but those of marriage. Charles saw the Strength of my resolution, and respected it too much to wish to violate it. I agreed to be his, when I could be So without discovery. The sin of ingra -- titude I did not then so Seriously con fider; neither did I properly refiecly that by accepting the hand of my lover, I was infnnging a sacred right.
3?
He contrived to get llimfelf ordered to the settlement at Cuddalore;, His fatheiy he well knew, could not
L S
q1
■ )ied'
226  OF FRIENDSHI?
object to it, because it was less expeii five living there; and the opportunity of trading was equal. unsuspicious of the motive, they agreed to the prc posal, and in a few days a Ship was to sail, on board of which he was to take, his paltage, andalso myself, who was to follow him in the habit of a Slave. Mrs., Wentworth, in consideration of advantage to her Son, and in hopes that in a Short time his fortune would be completed, and they might all return to Europe together, gave up her present comfort, for fallacious hopes in the future; and Saw him embark with a fortitude which is Seldom observed but in minds like her’s,, fraught with Sound principle, and true piety. I had apparently, taken leave of him in her presence, and the indif ference with which I did it, left not a doubt upon her mind, concerning our
con
 .
connexion, which Sometimes I believe had a little alarmed her. That was the last moment of my feeing that dear, that injured friend! Ah, Madam, will you not think I must have:
been formed of adamant, that I could
/
leave forever Such a mother without one tear? But absorbed in one idea, I Saw, I heard, nothing but her Son;
'' f
he was the whole world to me; and possessing his heart,. I asked for nothing more! I flew on the wings of love to the Ship; where in the arms of my lover I lost all my fears. Our voyage was Short, and on our landing we were immediately married.’/
Cuddalore, my dear Madam, is > the paradise of India, and, ’, like our flril parents, for Some time, we lived a life of perfect happiness; : our mutual love banished all reflection, and the
present

its
28  ,
present was all we thought of. But a; letter from Mrs. Wentworth, drew
I
; aside the veil which so long had clouded our reason, and brought with it; i^morle and misery.” .”



i
‘ * Orixana, ” Ihe said to me, what a return have you made to all my tenderness!! have robbed me of every comfort upon earth! f the ‘ duty and alfedion of a fon; the love and efteemof ahulband,. who con,, upbraids me as the great author of his fons disobedience! .Dis true I have nourished, a serpent in my bosom, and it has flung me to the heart! Oh! cruel girl! this is what you have done to me! but what “have you not brought wponyourfelf?
the violence of passion once subsided,
‘ ‘ what have you left but guilt and shame?? have involved in your
2: uilt
N

 . 22, (^
guilt also, one, who, till he Saw 5^011, was the pattern of every virtue! Re -- fleet on the whole of your crime, and: “then call repentance to yoiir aid ‘^afkforthe mercy of that God you: “have so lately known, and so hei nouily offended! fly from the de“ “that surrounds you! dare to be once, more virtuous, and I, injured
as I am, will find you an a
_ «
“where you may expiate your “fault, and hide a face unworthy the:; “light of heavenc"
“Oh, Madam! if you can figure to yourself what I felt on the receipt of
this kind and cruel letter, you will
*
spare my tongue the recithl; for words

are' inadeepuate to expreis the tenth part of what I suffered. But I had hill one consolation left, that I was not quite the guilty wretch the thought
mca.
 .
me. But the sin of ingratitude was enough to link me to the earth, and Sufficiently debated me in my own opinion. What a condition was I in, when my husband came to Soothe me with his tenderness, with vows of everlasting love, and prospefts of forgive ness and felicity. He too had a letter from his mother, acculing him of deceit and Sedudion. The latter part of the charge gave him no concern, as he was, entirely innocent. We will write,, my love, /‘said he, ’’ to this offended parent; we will confess every, thing, and when Ihe finds we are not; so worthless as Ihe imagines. She will once more bless us with her affections; Ihe will calm the rage of my Stern father, and he also will relent; once more be, confident, we shall be
52
Fortune,
V
 .
2 21 “O *•
Fortune cannot long frown on minds like our’s; for a Ilrort time perhaps our fun may be obscured, but it, will Soon Shine forth with redoubled, lustre, to illuminate thy virtues, and" do jufticeto my choice. Did my.’ mother think it possible I could look, with indifference on a mind formed by herself?? L am fare fire would herself have joined our hands, had we but. confided in her ;; is not yet too late, and from her candour we have everything to hope, ”
‘‘ Thus did he pour into my bosom the consolation it So much wanted


•r
but which it was almost averse to receive even from him, Conscience, that faithful monitor, once awakened, painted to my eyes in glowing colours,, the fault I had committed. I fawmy

mother’s grief, my father’s anger; and:
feared.

232
 '.
feared their influence on my hiifband’s heart. The thought was full of misery; nor could the presence of an infant, hourly expected, add one gleam of comfort to mv distracted mind. Like
J
its unfortunate mother it was to be received into a world of woe! How prophetic were my thoughts, and how justly have they been fulfilled YOUR
letters went, but we had no answer till my daughter was near three months old Her Sweet Smiles were unable to banish gloomy reflections; but occupied in my duty to her, and finding Some relief from so nev an employment, I was unwilling to expect what I feared would bring no peace. At lafl they arrived; but the olive branch fb anxiously looked for by my husband, came broken
^
  23^3
N Mrs. Wentworth Sent us both her blessing and forgiveness; but k was only her own Ihe could offer us. She irnplored the favour of heaven to render our union auspicious. To herself She owned it was a real satisfaction that we had only been guilty of disobedience; but the very circum fiance that gave her pleasure served Hill more to exasperate Colonel Went -- worth, who saw notin the same light with her, the connexion we had made. He who looked forward to an immense fortune for his fon, and then a fplendid alliance, could have forgiven any indiscretion but that of entirely, disappointing him in so important an expectation. This rendered it impos lible for her to serve us; and all Iho could recommend, was to wait patiently a change of fortune, and to keep, our marriage a secret till happier times,,
She
234
She had nothing to offer us but her prayers, which Ilie Said were constantly put up for our health and happiness, neither of which die herself enjoyed; the first was daily declining, and the; latter die had long been a dranger to The austerity of Mr. wentworth’s* temper, which increased with added years, ^ made ease and tranquillity no longer the inhabitants of her bosom;; die had learned resignation, and waited patiently to be removed ta that land where all things are forgotten

‘‘ where the wicked cease
from troubling, ” where the weary are at reft..”
“This letter, intended for our comfort, proved greatly the reverse. The melancholy with which it was tinctured gave a Sad presage of the event which followed. In the company of
9
each

f
 . 235
each other we in vain Strove to appear cheerful; there is no oblivion for guilty minds, and that one adt of disobedience and deceit embittered every joy. Our little one grew, was lovely and entertaining, and we had begun the third year of our abode at Cuddalore, when a letter came begging mr.v^ent worth to Set out for Madras, to receive thelast sighs othis departing mother; who could not dole her eyes in peace without his presence. Not a word was said about my attending him; without such a sanction it was a risk we dared not run; and he left me, promising to return as soon as ever the last duties were paid to his excellent parent.

We
thought our separation
would not be long, but what tears did it cost us? how often, how fondly, did my Charles press to his bi east his infant and it’s mother; ah! little did we

then
2^6
 OF FRTENUSHI1®’.
then think this interview was to be our

last! I feel myself great! give me a moment’s pause. Heaven will not let me Sink undei’ the iha do w, when the reality had not power to destroy me.”
Six weeks ( which appeared as long as all my former life) were now palled over, but I heard nothing of my husband; he sent not one line to cheer my solitude. Every Ship that arrived underwent a scrutiny, but no tidings came. Sometimes I was in deep despair; again, hope revived, and I banillied my fears. One day playing with my child in the garden, and taffing dowers'in innocent sport to be caught by her little hands, I was summoned to attend a meltenger from Madras.with trembling Steps I entered the apartment; he presented me a
letter
 . 237
letter from Mr. Wentworth; I hastily tore it open, but Soon perceived it was the hand So dear to me. My eyes grew dim, I could not read it; I gave it to ihy attendant to read; - She cast her eyes over it, and burst into tears, I Snatched it from her hand, and found lines to this purpose
‘‘ Charles Wentworth returns to
C
CC
you no more
he breaks thosc


ignoble chains with which you have So long enslaved him, and commands you to give up to the per“ “who delivers you this, your daughter, the offspring of your guilty love! It will be proteided; but as to yourself, no longer millress in the house you inhabit, you are the flave of the family who fuc ‘‘ ceeds Mr. Wentworth.
ic
CC
c


Wis a
4
^ punisliment due to your crime;
‘‘ Submit
23^  .
Submit to it therefore without murmuring; you know you are my property, and I have a right to dis “pose of you; do as you are com manded, or tremble for the consequences,

as you fear

‘ ‘ Hen ry Wentworth, ’ ’
‘‘ I did tremble i but it was for my present situation, for nothing worse could follow! I raved, I tore, I clafp cd my child to my burning bread:; I vowed we would never be parted! I said her father had no hand in the cruel order that was to deprive me of her. His nature could not change, and he was once all goodness. I then wept
ft
and entreated the pity of the messenger; he seemed humane, but could not alter the decree, or swerve from his obedience. I requested a few hours to reconlider this fatal letter;
could
 .
^39
could 1 be Sure my husband made the demand, he Should he obeyed, even had he ordered me to plunge a dagger in my heart; this would have been kinder than to rob me of my girl! I would consent to be a Have, would they but leave me that treasure to Sweeten the toilsome day. The last hour came! The ship was going to Sail, and the Servant demanded his charge! A gain I lost all patience, and Spent myselfin unavailing lamentations. I took from my wrist a bracelet which had once been my mother’s; that and its companion were the Sole remains of all her grandeur. The clasp was a ruby Set round with diamonds, and fastened to a string of pearls. “If we must part, my Sweet angel, ” I Said, “wear this to remind thee of thy fond, thy wretched mother!” I bound it on her
arm.
^40  .
%
arm. insensible to my agony, and ignorant of the caiise, fine looked up at me, and Smiled at the aflion, and kis fed the hand that So adorned her. From that moment I was no longer fensible; I fell into fits, and in that interval they took from me all my comfort.’’
How Ions I remained in this Hate of insensibility I know not. re ftored at lafl to my Senses I found myself surrounded by strangers who seemed anxious for my recovery. With their affistance, life and reason once more animated a heart that would not break. Oh! my dear Mrs. Scudamore! when I re deft on all my sufferings, I w'onderfor what a life like mine has been preserved. ’tis now many years since I have givem up ail
inquiries atter my husband and my
child;
 or . £41
ft
child; all that I made were fruitless, and unavailing, and I wearied othel^ without advantage to myselfv”
“What has been their fate, heaven knows! I have dragged on a hope iess exillence, of little use to others, and a burden to itiyself. The family to which I wasconligned treated, me with kindness, and I endeavoured to make all the return my Services were capable of. Years rolled over years, but they brought no alleviation to my Sorrows; the engraving was too deep for even time to obliterate. Hope had flown far away; till becoming the Servant of Mrs. dennison, it once more sought for admission in a mind natu
•cv
I
rally inclined to be Sanguine, thought it poisible my attention, my assiduity to her, might be the means of my getting to England. It was the
Vol. II
M
end

i  .
end of my wishes; and when I heard her intention of leaving India, and that I was to attend her to Madras; I doubted not but I should be permitted to follow her steps How Severe the disappointment of this hope was, you. Madam, who received so much trouble and anxiety from it, can bell tell; but it was the means of gaining me your friendihip! It caused you to in terell yourself in my behalf; and I have every reason to think that good will Spring from what I looked upon as the greatesi evil. If at the end of this long and tedious voyage I Should fail to hear any tidings of those dear relations, I trust 1 Shall stili retain your fiendlliip; I cannot be quite wretched while blessed with that cordial, and the life that is left me Shall be Spent in your Servicein proving to you, that cold as my heart
is.

 OF ffuetstdship. 24^
is, it is now more capable of gratitude than in the days of my felicity; and that the ftormsi, which have So long beat against it with ceaseless violence, have not destroyed, but promoted that excellent virtue.”

.'j
i ‘
%
My dear Eliza, I have not time to add a Sentence more; we Shall Soon meet, and then we will comment on this Sad tale.
I am., ever your’s,
Emily Sciidamofe,
M

I^ETTEK.


2, 44
LETTER
LVI
Lad Julia Harcourt, to, Mrs. Seymour.
Livingfion~abbey, July 2i
OW did you get home, my dear
Eliza? I am anxious to know,
as darkness had Spread his grim countenance
over the whole horizon long
besore I arrived at the place of my destination;
and I am Sure you would
be much later, as you had a longer
journey to take. But I hope your two
beaux preserved you from fear
and danger of every kind. We loitered
too long upon the road; our party
was too pleasant to think of Separating.
Without flattery, you and votre mart
have a method of making parties and
conversations pass o
ff in
the mod
agreeable Sty le imaginable.
1
Selina
1
 ,
245
Selina is much obliged to you for. your invitation, and will certainly accept it; on condition you keep your promise of coming for her. Poor girl! I hope change of air, and variety of company will be of Service to her. She is pale and languid, tho’ still beautiful; and has acquired a'kind of melancholy tenderness, which, to Say truth, 1 believe fire has Scarce a udili to get the better of. I was telling her yesterday evening how much I ex peded from her excursion to wans ford, ‘‘ and soon after your return, my father talks of going to town; and as you have Spent so little time there, everything will appear so new, so Splendid, and so gay, that I flatter myself you will be asbrifk as a young roe on the mountains, ” “How can you talk so, Julia, ” Said She, “you know there is no place in the world I love
M 3 half
«
\
 ,
So much as 1 do Livingston;; tree, every bower, and every walk, brings Some agreeable idea to my re mefnbrance; and when the cold blasts
r “*
of winter Shall prevent our enjoying those Sweet rambles we have at present, I had rather Spend my time in this room than in any other place in the universe. Does it not remind you of athousand agreeable Scenes that have
in it y I cannot Say I have any passion for inanimate objeds; and and as to those charming Scenes you speak of, they have been So happily blended with the disagreeable, that believe me, I would much radier for
4
et thanremember them, I fancy it is much the Same with our journey thro’ life, it is So mixed with care and uneafiness, that at the lad we would rather resign our being, than riin the rilk of combating any more
dif.
 . 24, 7
i i
difficulties. But if you have an III
%
clination to inorease your partiality (or flacesj my dear friend, vve will, if you please, walk down flairs; as I was informed when I came in here, that Lord Mordington was below; and I am very certain Spending the evening with will So attach you to the room, that I am afraid I shall not be able to prevail upon you even to sit down here tomorrow morning.” Now, Julia, you are getting into your airs again, and what is worse, you are breaking your word with me; did not you promise when you came home, you would compassionate and Iboth me? and I protest I have not heard one tender expression since your arrival.” ^‘too much of soothing hast thou, poor Selina V I perceive that has been the bufiness my mother has employed herself in, all this time j and
M 4
1
24^  OP .
I do not find it has agreed So well with you, that the plan ought to be pursued further. Trull me my dear girl, I would rather laugh you out of your melancholy, than sooth ’you to continue in it.’^ Nay, Julia, if you are determined to laugh at all events, pray Jet us go down flairs, foratpresent I am almost as equal to encounter Lord mordington’s ill humour, as your mirth.*’
Down we Sallied. As Soon as his Lordihip cspied me, he cried out, ‘^well, Lady Julia, So you have been jaunting about; I hope you have been happy! young people never think themselves So, but when they are immersed in dissipation;; about from place to place, without Spending one rational moment'

‘‘I thank you, my Lord, I
have
I ft
 . 249
have been very happy, but not very dissipated; my pleasures have been rather of the Serious kind; I have been witnessing the Solemn union of two friends, whose hearts were before firmly attached; and who will, I hope prove a pattern of conjugal felicity., ’^ If you think there is So much real happiness to be met with in the matri monial Hate, young lady, ” said my Lord, “you had better have laid aside a little of your obstinacy, and taken Lord Weftbury; he would have made you an excellent husband, that I will answer for; and then he would not have been banished his native country, and from the arms of an indulg ent
o
parent, to wander, like an exile, in foreign climes.” “I thought my Lord, ” said my father, you had rather wished Lord Weftbury to go abroad; if it had not been your in
>■


clination.
 .
clination I amazed you did no tell him So,, and request him to put off his journey.’’ ‘‘ I desire him toi put off his journey !” " exclaimed Lord, Mordington, I requeji f where I have a right, to command! You know little of my disposition, my Lord, if you think I could Submit to that. But to, allow for one moment that I had condefcended to ajk him to Stay, he would, I make no doubt, immediately have complied with my request; but, then the next story would have been, If Iftay in England you must make, it agreeable to me,, and allow me to marry mifscourtney; and so the matter zvould have been much improved,, would it not If you have no objection to a rubber at whist this evening,, my Lord, ” Said my mother, I will ring for a card table.” ‘^aye, there it is, ” Said his Lordihip, there is anon
the

 . 251
there proof of your modern refinement; a man could formerly have gone to his neighbour’s for an hour or two, and chatted in a friendly manner, but now the moment you enter you muffc be Squeezed behind a card table, or else nobody thanks you for your com -- pany. As we are not a Set of gamblers, and have I dare say not the leall desire to pick each other’s pockets, for heaven’s sake. Lady St. Clair, let us this one evening be freed from the Stupidity of whist. I want to talk to you of my own distreltes, of the loss I have of my Son, and how much I am in want of his Society. And that other foolish fellow too, Drummond, he is,
I find, still determined to go to Paris,
\
and marry this French girl. Poor Lady Drummond! I dare Say She is very much distressed about it; yet even file can talk about honour, and not
breaking
2^2  OF FRIENDSHIF.
breaking engagements, and Such ridiculous fluff. If he was my fon, I would break every bone in his skin, and let him keep his engagements then if he chose. But I believe I Should not talk so,. there is no saying how many ways children find of tor tnendng their parents; Ms ten to one: but the next whim Weflbury may take, will be to marry a Spanish lady,, and I Shall be plagued and vexed with her and her Duenna, and her Don of a father, all my, life after As my mother’s card Scheme had proved inete fe<fttial, I determined to make one more effort to Silence his Lordihip; ‘‘ I declare if you had not begun to talk of old times,, my Lord, L should
9
probably have fprgot to tell you how
indefatigable I have been all this time
*
Wansford, tq get that old Song perfect you used to be so fond of; and if
yqui
 .
^ J
you will give me leave, I will let you bear what improvement I have made.’^ “Well, well, ” Said he pee villily, let us have it, I find there is no dealing with ladies, without you will let them be the principal performers in the Scene; they can no more Sit Silent, and let another persork talk, than they can Ji^v'

I took him at his first word, andj Seated myself at the harpsichord, where I played all the old Songs I could think of, till Supper was announced. My father then took tipon himself the: burden of the conversation, and by turning it upon public topics, kept him tolerably composed, without make any more personal reflections, till it was time for him to take his leave.


It


254
 .
\
It has just occurred tome, Eliza, that you will think this family occupies all my thoughts; and that when the young gentlemen are absent, I make the old one the subje6t of my pen. I am very conscious he cannot be an agreeable one, and therefore left Ilhouldagain be tempted to mention his name, I will this instant fubscribe myself your very affedionate,
Julia hay€oun.
LETTEH
 .
25^-
LETTER
LVIF.
Etkvard Seymour, to Drummond, esq.
Wansford etoufr, Luly 23'.
AM at this moment a convincing proof that in this world we cannot enjoy perfect felicity. Tho’ I am not able to form one wish for myself whicte is nbt amply gratified, and wherever I turh my eye I find smiling peace,, and contentment, her companion, yet in the midst of this delightful scene a sigh escapes me. Friendihip has So firm a place in my heart, that I find, iinlefs you, my Drummond, can be, : happy, I shall but half enjoy th .t favoured lot heaven has beitowed
#
n me..
A
25^  .
\
I have with great impatience waited for the arrival of every post, in hopes of hearing from you; and I am now afraid a relapse has been the cause of your Silence. I beg it as a favour you will write to me the moment you re ceiveihis letter.

As I was writing the raft Sentence,. Malbourne came into my Study. He begged he might not interrupt me,
he would take a book. I wrote a few
%
lines, and observing he only turned over the leaves and did not attempt to rad, I laid down my pen. Seymour, if I disturb you I will leave the room “Not at all, my Lord, I am only writing a few lines, to inquire after our friend Drummond | I am at this time very anxious about him.” To tell you the truth, Seymour,
it was to have a little conversation
with
 . 2^7
#
with you about Drummond, that I
came to you
You told me he had
given up all thoughts of addressing Lady Julia, and had aflually written to madamoiselle de Sanzey; that Jhe will accept him I have not the least doubt; do you think it would give him pain to See his friend in pofseflion of that inestimable treasure, Lady Julia Harcourt? I love her passionately.. have avoided declaring my attachment till I had your Sentiments on the subject. Since Ihe has left wans ford, I find her so very necessary to. my happiness, that if you think I may venture to offer her my hand, without wounding the heart of my friend, I will tomorrow go to living flon abbey.’*
Your question, Malbourne, gives •me Some concern. That Drummond
ought
25s WREVTH OF .
ought to b:
Julia
thoughts, bcs^'re he offers his hand to another, is a subject that will not bear a debate; but which of us, my Lord, adls in every poini exactly as he Should do? and therefore we muss pity, not condemn, the weakness of our friend. Was Drummond really married, it would give me infinite pleasure to See you happy with Lady Julia. Pardon me, if I differ from you in opinion, but I think a . Such as our’s has been, is entitled to Some few Sacrifices; and if I might advise, you would at leaffc postpone your addresses a few
1
weeks longer; it can be no prejudice to your own affairs. Lady Julia has ^ large Share of delicacy,, and were fly sensible of your motive for delaying
your proposals, would approve, rather
"\
than condemn it.’’ “
in the mean time tell Drummond how
I
Will
 QF .
259
I am situated, and let him answer for himself.^’ ^‘I will, before I firiish my letter; ' though I confess it is as painful a subject for me to write upon, as I am afraid it is for him to read
He left me, and I have given you the conversation exactly as it passed. Malbourne was not perfectly satisfied with my requesting him to wait a few weeks. I Shall expect to hear from you oh this subject; but do no violence to your own feelings; take time to consider before you write, and do not let a flight of generous friendfiiip lead you to ruin your own peace by a precipitate anfw^r. That happioess may be your constant companion, is the
ardent wish of your
E. S
letter
26o  of friendshif
\
LETTER LVIII
Lord ivefibury, to Lady Julia ilauourf^
Juh2<^.
[HILE I am waiting for the signal to go on Ship board, I take up my pen to affure Lady Julia, how highly I esteem her condescensiorr in accepting me as a correspondent, in allowing me to tell her cerns, all my anxieties, think what a talk you have undertaken? but you are all humanity, and the pleasure of being able Sometimes to administer consolation to your friends, will, I know, amply reward you for the trouble you will experience.
my con i grieve to
Firm in this hope, I shall without scruple, write what my heart dictates; without Studying to offer you entertainment, which I myself do not ex
 . 2, 6 I
pe£l tq find, thp’ I am going a voluntary exile into Scenes .of novelty. The mind, fixed on one darling objecfl, is displeased at everything that would for a moment banish it; and turns from splendour, from mirth,, and gaity, to refle6i; on that one idea which absorbs all the rest. If I were a philosopher, how readily should I describe to you the scene which now presents itself; of an ocean calm and tranquil, the ftiip dancing on the waves, a gentle breeze fluttering in her sails, the fun gilding the whole, and all nature Smiling; but my heart revolts at a representation so different from itself; and recurring always to my last interview with Selina, is all inquietude, all perturbation.
’tis necessary T should check it for a time, that I may give you a little information about my seif, and tell you
that

2.62  OF FRIENDSHIF.
r
that I take my passage on board the Minerva, Caprain Thomas wilson, bound to Barcelona. At that place your letters will find me. I Iliall perhaps loiter there, on a hope (which may not be realised, bat which 1 indulge without Scruple) of being re alled to my native country, Should my father relent, and Soften the terms of my reconciliation. You mull, in your letter, which I shall anxioully expect, describe to me every look of my Selina; her emjdoyments, her amusements, nay, her very thoughts, when fly is so good as to bellow them on me. I lliall conllantly, in imagination, be with you in that charming bower where we have so often be uiled the Sultry hours in ‘‘ converse fvveet; ’^ where the woodbines, no
longer (bedding Soft perfume, have given place to the mulk rose, whose powerful odours lengthen out the pleasures
n
/•>
V
WRFATH OF  263
sures of ct Jeciining year. But ere I return, ail its bloom, all its sweetness wiil t w e, and the Spot only remain that was covered with So much beauty; Still it will be'dear to me as ever, for Selina has made it her abode, i must beg, my dear friend, that you will inform yourfeif also of the health of my father; I have no exdeflations of
^ Jl
hearing from him; and tho’ I have ordered his servant to give me frequent accounts of him, I Shall not be easy unless they are confirmed by you. Thus, you see, have I, regardless of everything but self, planned out employment for your leisure hours. Tell
me how I shall make a return for all
/
your goodness? I know but of one
wav, and that is, when I Shall be so •/ ^
fortunate as to become the husband of your friend, to make her happiness the foie Study and business of my life; cy doing this, I am certain of contributing
^64
tributing largely to yoiir’s; and only
by So doing, can I deserve the esteem;
; confidence of a mind So liberal.
Drummond, whom 1 have never once
thought of Since I began this letter.
has been sitting by me all the tirhe in
real and unfeigned Sorrow for my de
* _
parture. What a Soul has that dear.
hat unfoitunate youth! and how
much do his distresses afsift to increase
mine. I told him just now, that I
was writin
Julia
for his commands. He darted, “Gracious
Heavens 1 did you say to Lady
Julia? But, indeed, his to no purpose;
I have nothing; to add !” Adieu, fair
lady, yi/y both your friends! The ship
waits, remember my treasure is in your
polteffion. All happiness attend Li
vingfton abbey. Believe me, your
mod faithful.
pfejibury\
END or VOL. n.

U. of Pa.
Library h
rii'

A j' N.
^ •; y'’ ' j -.,
V /




rv

.f ', >•. <
.n
A V X ■. f
» tva \ J M
w w
T H E

o r

O R,
\
A RETURN FROM
INDIA,
A NOVEL,
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS.
FRODESSE ET DELECTARE.
IN THREE. VOLUMES


VOL.



LONDON
PRINTED FOR
WILLIAM LANE, LEADENHALL streex*
M DCC XC
^ *
CV3CT* 5
(05
THE
W R E A T B
\
6 F

Letter LIX

y
f
/
id
V ^
vfi
D
5: : ^
cr
4
Henry Drummond, esq. to the Rev
E. Seymour
$
%
, ■■<-
Drummond place. yulylq.
EYMOUR, I never vas better in my whole lise! I am in perfea health. rosalia has sent me a cordial,
I
prepared by herself and a German dostor, which' has, with once taking, restored me to life! The prescription i have reason to think came front the
Voh III
B
-
^ H

14"
2  OF FRIENDS HIT.
Gods, and is called by the ancients
eaeu6

IOC
Britons freedom
vine freedom! .Dis true I Hill wear my arm in a sling, but what of that? my mind is free! I am no longer Ihackled ■with those galling fetters, forged by passion, and bound on by caprice.
Congratulate me, my dear Seymour, on my release; and read die scroll that has confirmed my liberty. Congratulate me, did I say? why, I sat down ■on purpose to congratulate you ^ and
behold I
fel
myself. No matter, you will understand how it Should be, and that between friends will do just as wem; for, I alture you, if my head was not [full of my own happiness, it would be of your’s; and that is saying things in as
civil a way, as I can say them at present.

V • >.
■\V R E XT H OF FRI endsh I f
tent, as in two days I Shall be at the
Lady Julia
/
“What music in the name! •
'*'* Which Softening me to infant tenderness
m
** Makes my heart 'Spring like the first leaps of life'
There are heroics for you! now if J were a poet, what fine things I could, add on this Subject.. I hear
you Say Drummond, will nothing
• * •.
make you wise Yes, my dear friend.
Lady Julia will; orbis in her power to make me anything. “But hold, ’* you Say again, ( for you are really very troublesome with your queftiorrs) will it be a proof of her wisdom to marry thee ?” Aye, there’s the rub indeed; but why Should I anticipate ‘evils? This was in happy days her

>%
B a
Own

 .
own argument, and I love to abide by all her opinions. I will therefore Seek to know my fate from the mouth of my oracle alone. Once I flattered myself, fly entertained some little partiality for me; and tho’ it may have been "almost extinguished, yet if one spark remains, nothing Shall be left undone on my part to rekindle it, for his in her power to give me bliss or misery.
My father says to me, Harry, what an unaccountable fellow yoii are; no Sooner out of one scrape, than you are running post haste into' another, and will not allow one moment to the enjoyment of your liberty.” I acknowledge this trait is exactly true, but his my disposition, and 1 now follow its impulse without fear.
I
 .
5
I look back on the dangers I have escaped, like an affrighted mariner on the rocks which' have wrecked his vessel; I cannot believe that my senses were in their proper (late, or that L saw at Paris with the Same eyes that I iiav:
used in England.
.Oi
All the excuse I can offer from my -- self to myself is, that rosalia’s youth
and innocence were the charms that
\
attached me to her. How Soon is the latter worn off by the commerce of the world; and of how slight a texture were her principles, if So easily warped. To her female friends and Captain Hermandorf, 1 have everlaftino;
^ o
obligations; nor am I without some slight degree .of gratitude to her im~ charitable confessor, but am very happy we are to Be no better acquainted.
B 3 How
■\
OF
How perverse was fortune,, time; would not Send me this news before poorm^e.ftbury left us, who, qceupied So much with his own diftress, had still a ligh left for me, for he poffeites universal philanthrdpy; and tho’ unhappy now, will, I trust soon meet with the reward of his merit. I Shall soon see my Sagacious lincle, who, rather than, have his Son united to a woman of dubious birth (tho’ of extraordinary accomplishments)) him Spend his youth in a foreign country,, when it might be of Such elfential Service to his own. I Shall try to argue the point with him, as Wellbury will not be present to be hurt by our wrangling; but I am not Sanguine, and expect no fuccess, therefore cannot meet with a disappointment.
It
\

/
It is possible, my dear friend, you may behold me Soon at Wansford. yoiir invitation is l*ery tempting; and
as I think you may by this time be re
✓
stored to your natural Senses, and tolerably conversable upon other Subjects besides love and marriage, ( which by the by are subjects at present very near my heart) I Shall come and partake of your ■ hospitality, and criticise your manners and behaviour in your new dignity; your description of which 1 am eager to imitate.
A
I hope you will have no objection to say a thousand kind things for me to your Eliza. ’tis certainly less dan erous than if I Said them myself, which, when 1 have the pleasure of feeing her, I certainly Shall do, aye,
even before your reverence’s fate; so
%
incorrigible am I. Tell her I crave.
B 2
as
 OF frientshr?
as a proof of her  for me her interell with Lady Julia; to you I
say only I remain ever your’s.
H, D
trmtrs'i:
LETTER LX
'mademoifeue de Sanzey, to Henry
Drunmondf esq.
Pans, July o
Y good friend, Monsieur Drummond, rosalia Sits down
f
to tell vou we have both been de eeived; we have taken a phantom for a reality, and have been very near Suffering a false notion of honour to rob
us
OF . 9
US of all our future happiness. How fortunate it is that we are now restored to our fenses. I will inform you exactly and candidly how my recovery was efse6led. You had not left Paris many weeks before I began to examine my heart; Surprised at my own gaity I did not know how it happened that in your absence I Should be So cheerful. So unconcerned. So ready .to be pleased, and So desirous to give pleasure. these I found were not the symptoms of love, as madamoiselle Ormond, one of our nuns described them, nor what I myself had imagined.. madamoiselle told me, those who truly love, are filled with doubts, fears, anxieties, and a train of gloomy
V
ideas, that, especially in the. absence of the beloved object, give everything a dark and lifeless tinge. She is certainly a casuift, and knows these
B J
matters,
io'
WR E A'T'H ’ QP F R I E N 0SHI P

matters better than I d';. I find I have’
V '
deceived myselfj and am going to deceive. Monfievr Drummond; I will
write to him, tell him my doubts, and
__!
alk his opinion.” This I should cerr tainly have done directly, but I recol
lecfted I had better wait a litti
•
I was
only young and inexperienced, and might perhaps be too hasty;; could ' at any rate be sincere when, you called tjpon.me for a performance of our engagement; and as yet the world and its customs were new to me, and it might not be in my nature to feel a ^ higher degree of alfeflion for any one -
The young Abbe D. visited lis. often; I found he was a philosopher, and determined to consult him. I was; convinced by his arguments that I had no real love, for, you, • but he wanted, also to convince me, that I was not incapable of loving, ^ bu,, mistaken
&
.1
t jae -
*■ t
\
 .
II
dieobjed; and that my indifference in regard to me, proceeded from my ■penchant for another, which other he assured me was he himself! But I felt not the lead: inclination. to agree with him; and finding my teacher grown interested, I could no longer expect
i
impartiality of reasoning. J flew from him to caress my lap dog; Fidele, ( I assured him) alone.kept poffeliion of my heart. My female friends who were acquainted with my perplexities, prevailed upon me to surmount the dislike( ( may remember) I had to going into public. Just come out of a convent I felt like a young and foolish bird let out of its cage; timorous and fearful, I enjoyed not the bustle of the world;. they laughed at my simplicity, and banished my appreheii aeons.. I joined their gay parties, and
Soon
■f
4
12  OF FRIENDSHIF,
Soon began to relish with enthufiasm the pleasures Society afforded.
As I love sincerity, I will own to you, that while my time was thus occupied, my thoughts Seldom wandered to England. At the counsess de merci’s assembly, I met with a? young German officer in the Suite of the Ambassador. His person had no? thing, striking, he was not handsome,
and the favours of the Graces he had
\
courted; in Ihoit, Monsieur D. he was the very reverse of you;, for he was grave and indifferent, though civil to all. I took it iit my head there would be Some honour in making conquell of one who Seemed So in?
lenliblebut I was a, novice in the
/
art of attraction, and knew not how to Set about So great a work, ILIAD
Some little confidence, in my person

r,
 . tjy
0
fon, and my understanding, both of which the Abbe.d. laid were Superior' to molland as we perpetually met, I did not despair in time of making Some impression. I was successful; and in a monttes time led in chains this invincible hero, and triumphed over, all thp, beauties of my acquaintance..
Arrived at the Summit of my intention I meant to abandon my conqueftj; it was no longer in my power! I now experienced every fymptora defcribed by madamoiselle Ormond, and found, that in taking possession of his heart, I, had Surrendered my own.
How whimsical and capricious are our passions, and how little are they guided ‘ by reason! I said to Captain Herniandorf, what am I to do about
mr.jprummond, and my


tov
r
4
 .
to him ?” He proved to me by demonstration, that an absent’ lover is very little better than a dead one and that as you were in one nation, and I in another, the same, laws could not bind both; therefore my vows were null and void, and of no further efficacy. just in this interim arrived! Monlieur Selwyn: I met him at Madame B — she told me the whole.
4
Story of the. duel, its cause, and the event of it; I was very forty indeed,, and lamented much that I had not., treated you withf .more confidence, as all this might have been prevented. It was now too late;, vain was it to rieve about.what could not be reme -- ^ died, foi' alked Monsieur Selwyn what I had belt do? acquainting him in the first: place with my present situation. ‘‘ Please yourself' ' ’tis.the bufinefsof all rationale
creatures
> >
WR'E AT H 0 f P R I E N D s HI P..
ca

creatures, but Seldom in our power; therefore Seize the, happy moment.’^
an a gey
ytd

lit I, this is for
philosophers; every man I conrerfe \vith is fit fbr a profeltor; and I am, glad to find, that ignorant as I am, I agree with them in these difficult ands
abftrufepoints. Voiir tetter arrived,.
/
and I almoftrelapfed again. You were 10 candid. So generous, and So polite,. I was almost inclined to be your wife, .^ and to tell Hermandorf I had changed V my mind. I went to confession, and" the good father assured me I could not be happy either in thk world or the ^ next, with an heretic, as he assures me; you are; and that once removed from; him and my friends here, I should by your arts be tempted to become one : too. You perceive, my good friendy,.
t
that stern fortune is fet against our union, and .we, must not dare attempt
s
 ..
to alter her decrees. Next week I have fixed for our marriage. I pray that die lady who robbed me of your heart
.may be propitious to your wishes, and Sen Si ble of your merit.
My parents, who efieem you much, more than my fpoiise elect. Send you thousands of compliments. Adieu, Monsieur, I shall ever be your affec. tionate friend,
Rofalia de Sanzeji
LETTER
 OF FEIENDSHIF. i?
LETTER LXI

Lady Julia Harcourt, to Mrs. Seymour.

Livingfion abbeyf Augujl 2.
VENIN this world of wonders you will, I make no doubt, my dear Eliza, be greatly aftonillied, wheii I tell you, that I have seen, conversed, and pent one whole evening with Drummond. I know not how I Should attempt to convince you of the truth of my alterti'an, when I can myself hardly believeits reality. While we were at tea yeftei day afternoon, the Scivant told my father there was a young gentleman in the library wished to speak with him. He immediately went,
. and Stayed I am Sure more than half an.
hour

is WR RAT HOF FRIENDSHIF
\
hour. It is certainly a new love? for you, Julia Said Selina,
and
Lord St. Clair is fettling all preliminaries before he introduces him Quite as probable that it is for yoilr felf, my good friend, *’ Said I, “my father is I believe full as much import tuned on one hand as the other; and if, it Should, pray Selina don’t put the poor youth into despair at once; you will absolutely want amusement in weftbury’s absence.” Immediately, as t had finished the lafi: word, my father entered, and with him Drummond! It is impossible, my Eliza, to give you an idea of my feelings at that moment; so many various fensations tool possession of my bread;, I knew not which to attend to. Drummond looked more interesting than ever; his eyes,. Sparkled with pleasure; and a
fine

N
V


 .
19.
fine glow of health overspread his whole countenance.
He addressed my mother and Selina in an easy genteel manner; and now, ■ Lady Julia, Said he, “I am come to offer myself at your feet a willing captive, earnestly requesting to be once more reinstated in all my former rights and privileges; and believe: me, you will find me more docile, more trabahle, and more oxyour command than ever There was Something I thought So cavalier in his style that it really disconcerted me;
Eliza, whom you have often Said you never Saw at a loss for words. Believe me at that instant I could not make a reply; however it very fortunately occurred to me, that I mull Say something, and that diredly; and with as
t
much composure as I could m fter.


/
20
 .
‘ht is impossible, Mr. Drummond,
I Said ‘ ^ that you Should ever be reinstated in what you call your former rights and privileges; I recoiled; when I last Saw you, I called you mjfriendy but your departure was So abrupt, and without making one reserve in case of your return, that I looked upon the place as vacant, and have Since that time bellowed it, in the mosl unre served confidential manner, u pon
i.ord westbury; and I now flatter myself he will hold it till all s Shall be vain.” Happy westbury!” Said he, ‘^thou dost indeed posfefs a treasure that Princes might be vain of; but Surely, my dear Madam, your heart is large enough to admit of more than one friend at a time; but if your principles do not allow a plurality in , there is a more Under title which 1 would with much
more
\

11
more anxiety aspire to, and which I Sincerely hope you have not likewise considered as vacant, and bestowed it on another.” “No, there, ” Said I, “thanks to kind fortune I am perfectly Safe; nothing more tender than  would 1 allow any of your treacherous sexto hope for from me. I believe you to be all alike, faithless in love; and trust me, I Should have a much more contemptible opinion .of myself than I have at present, could I fuspectt myself. at any future time of being likely to deviate from my strict principles on that head.” Why Surely, my dear Lady Julia, ypu cannot
mean
excuse me for interrupting you, Mr. Drummond, ” Said my mother.

Julia
into one of your accuslomed arguments, allow me to inquire by what Slrange fatality you are here at present,
and
2.2
 .
and why, as I presume by your conversation, unmarried? I hoped long before this, I might have congratulated you on being a happy hulband.’^ I have. Lady St. Clair, ’’ Said he, in a moil miraculous manner recovered my freedom; and like many other foolish people, you See I cannot now be content with the blessing I enjoy, but wish once more to be held in bondage by your fair daughter, and fubje<5t to all the pains and penaltiesy commonly called by the world, caprice and whfmsy which She can find in her heart to torment me with. Would you believe it. So greatly does Cupid infatuate his votaries, that the first use I made of my liberty was to convey myself to Livingfton abbey, where I was certain of being again enthralled.” “It is at least a consoiation.” Said my mother, ‘‘to refle(51:, that none of those
dreadful

 .
23
dreadful bondages you Speak of, will do you any harm. I do not think it is in the power of any woman, however charming, to break your heart; I believe your maxim is taken from that old Song,
** If Ihe is not kind to me.
'** What care I how fair Ihe be?
3?
CC
My dear Lady St. Clair,

Drummond, how much do you
mistake my character; you know not
how often I have hid an aching heart
under the (emblance of gaiety; nor
how much it is in the power of one
woman to rhake me feel! But my
«»
dear Lady Julia, why will you still preserve that frigid indifference? it is So unlike the usual tenor of your conduct, that it almost petrefies me. pity’s sake, let me once more
have
ta.  OF friendshis»
have the pleasiire of beholding the
laughing Lady Jiiiia I left behind.

Whilst my mother and you perfill in making love the topic, I must Hill preserve what you call my frigid indifference.

It is so foreign both to
my heairt and inclination, that I cannot endure the subject. If you will bring your conversation to a level with the capacities of the rest of the company, we will all endeavour to bear a part
Agreed, ’’ said Drummond, and I will, in obedience to your
4
command, for the present banish /o'y^ from my vocabulary; tho’ it has uncontrolled possession of my heart.”
in It.
)> a
^‘you have been at Wansford lately, Lady Julia; you went prepared to admire my friend Seymour; I doubt not ht anfvvered all the expedations you had
formed
 .

formed of him.
c
Indeed he did.
)>
Said I, nay'he exceeded them t h iis impossible for words to do jiiftice to the merits of Mr. Seymour, he is the best young man I ever met with.” ‘‘take care, Lady Julia, ” said he, “you do not forget that Seymour, is one of the faithless Sex you have been Speaking of. But I beg your pardon, I will not break my agreement with you. Lord Malbourne too I believe was there at the same time. What is your opinion of him; ?” fixing his expressive eyes full in my face ashe Spoke. “I think him, ” Said I, “just such a man as Mr. Seymour was likely to choose for a friend.” “Upon myfvord, ” Said he, “Lord Malbourne is infinitely obliged to you; after what 3^011 have said you could not have paid him a higher compliment.” do not think this at all fair, Mr. Dnim
Vol. III
C
mond, ”
\
d  .
\
Hiond, ” Said Selina, ‘‘ you Should not
%
catechize Julia So closely for her opinion of all your friends; their intimacy with you mull make it unpleasant for’ her to pafs her sentiments upon them.’’ “Thankyou, Selina, ” said I, “that was my idea of the cafe exactly;; I thought as I had objected to the first Subject, if I refused to answer the questions that were alked me on the second, they might think it was impossible to please me.” “1 earnellly entreat forgiveness, fair ladies, ” said Drummond, “if I have erred, bind me to what reftridiions you think proper, 1 am willing to Submit.” “That will never do, Drummond, ” said my fa r, “You are too submissive; exert
th
a little Spirit, or che girls w ill tyrannise So there will be no bearing them.” We then conversed in an eaiy manner, on common Subjects, ’till eleven
o’clock.
 of fllie^dshir.

o’clock, when the Servant came to inform him that Lord mordington’s patience was exhausted, and that Mr Drummond rnull return home ‘‘I declare, ” Said he, ‘‘I had forgotten till this moment, I was the guest of my agreeable uncle, or I don’t thiiik I durll have rilked his displeasure So far as to have Staid to this time. Will you ride in the morning. Lady Julia ?’* No, Sir” “You will walk perhaps.” “No, I Shall not be out at all“ “Shall probably meet with you in the music room.” I believe not; I Shall be particularly engaged all the morn” ” bowed, You will dine
mg.
with us then Mr. Drummond, ” said my father. “With pleasure, my Lord.” He then took his leave
Now, to me, elia, all this is iilex* plicable. What he can mean by this
C 2 Visit
28  .
visit, I cannot find out; and what mjr father can propose is still more strange. I have not yet forgotten the passion he was in when Lord Mordingtori said I had apartiality for Harry Drummond.
Adieu, my dear Friend, I am anxious to hear from you; tho’ you are a matron, you mull still remember us poor Spinfters; among which number I verily believe you will always rank your affedionate friend.
yulia Harcourt,
LETTER
 .
20
LETTER
LXII
Henry Drummond esq. to th
Edward Seymour
O
W
Wejihury lodget dugujl 3,
Flatter myself, dear Seymour, that my last letter would in Some degree answer your’s, which it passed upon the road; as by that you would learn my intentions, and Lord Malbourne would Sind I had not given up all hopes of Succeeding with Lady Julia. I miift confess I do not relilli the idea of a rival in her affections, and now and then am So Selhili as to willi that Malbourne and Ilie had never met. As to' himself he is endowed with Such a. share of good fense, that I hope his. disappointment will do him no harm;,
C 3
but

 .
N
but if he is in any danger, he need only eall to his aid that philosophy he so much boasts of on other occasions, and which he Seems by Some rnagical arts to have purloined from most of his friends, and added their Stock to his own.
I Sincerely wilh him happy with feme deserving woman as like Lady Julia as but not herself. Imuft
now inform you that the day before yellerday I arrived at the Abbey. I did not make my appearance to the ladies till I had first got the sanction of
Lord St. Clair, to whom I made full
/
confession of the reasons of my past and
j
present condud; and ended with requeuing his leave to offer my hand to Lady Julia, and to present him with a charts blanche from my father, on which he begged him to name his own
termsa
 . 3i
terms. His reception of me was candid and open; he allured me no alliance could be more pleasing to himself; but as to his daughter, fly mull follow her own inclinations, which he was determined never to bias; and therefore, Mr. Drummond, ” he Said,
t
you have my free leave to gain her heart if you can; his worth the trial, believe me. About terms I am sure we shall have no difference of opinion, and so ‘gallonsi*
We repaired to the drawing-room, where he introduced me to the trio, who were at work in the bow window.
i.
I mull confess my vanity was a little
/
flattered by the embarrassment my presence occasioned to Lady Julia; but file Soon recovered, and rallied as usual; till with as much gaity as I
could alfume, I proclaimed luyself
G 4
again
32  6f .
again her captive, and for ever at her own disposal. She disclaimed all power over me, and would join in no conversation that made love its theme; upon other topics Ilie was lively, feu fible, and charming, as ever.
*
I find I mull not make to her a Serious proposal till I have reinstated myself again in her good opinion and friendlliip; the latter of which fly says is new unreservedly bestowed on Lord Weftbury; and that She has not a corner of her heart left for any onc' elfe. I Should be most miserable if I could think this really the cafe; but I mufb allow a little time to wear away die offence her pride has received from my past behaviour. I staid Supper, and returned here to rejl, if you please, but not to Sleep. How many
(different sensations agitate my heart I
anid
 .
and “hope and fears alternate rise, .'” ' each as in turn predominate. Lord St. Clair aflced me to dine the next day, to make amends for the apparent indifference of his fair daughter, who would neither walk, ride, nor do anything at my request. Sometimes I am halfalarmedat her coldness, buthavino^'
^ O
a friend in her father is a great conso lation; as from that circumstance I have a power of Seeing her every day,, and I believe I Iliall not appear at Wansford very soon while I retain that indulgence.
I went early in hopes of meeting; Lady Julia in the musie room, not vithdanding her affirmation of having
O
But the
buliness all the morning, birds were all flown. Upon the table lay the port feule in which were her beautiful drawings. She had been.
C 5
at


atworkupona Cupid in the al of drawing his bow; it was not quite finished, and the pencils and the pallet laid ready. licould not refill the temptation 1 felt to complete the figure, and‘ tp add under it the following lines
Cupid aiin thy pointed dart At julia’s cold and flinty heart;. And bid her Snowy bosom prove.
"' The pains I, feel from hopeless love“
“DP
II put the paper under Some of the others, with the blank fide uppermost.. nor but herself might see what I wrote. Sir Horace Winn came unexpectedly to dinner,, and; we were all assembled Some time before Lady Julia made her appearance. She ex^r pressed great delight at feeing Sir Horace, who had been absent with his
fa

✓.
 , 35
family from the neighbourhood many months, and paid me slight civilities. She was dressed, if you will allow' the expression, with the most studied negligence; but I never saw her look so • well, or any tlflng so Amply elegant as her whole Agure.
is
The conversation became general! and Sprightly. Sir Horace, who is an amateur in deagn, admired Several of Lady Julians drawings.
were
hung about the room, and aaced if Ahe still continued that amusement?? ■ yes, closer than ever:; and I really begin to think I improve. Tilt Show you one! am.about; tis not yet
quite Anilhed, but you Shall give me' your opinion of it, as it is. partly from fancy, and a Aril attempt.” You will imagine I felt a little awkwaref on this ^ occaaon, and withdrew to a. window
k
where.
36  .
where Selina was at work. I entered into chat with her, but kept my eye on the rest of the company. She turned over Some papers, and without calling her eye on the lide of the paper on which the drawing was, gave it to Sir Horace. He looked at it steadily for some moments, and then Said, Smiling, poor gentleman 1 really. Lady Julia,
did not think you had been so cruel!
ec
What
what is it so entertains you I fear yon think it a wretched performance Quite the reverse,, I think, it exquiftte and I applaud the artist who has added, the accompaniment and put so high a ftnilh to it.” not finished, indeed. Sir, I left it an hour ago, it wanted a great deal of be
.Disc

ing completed.” “That may be, but now there does not want a Stroke, no, not even the. pop to. an i; here are even
 . 37
this initials of the name, which perhaps was needless; but really I wish to know the whole name of the ingenious youth, for I admire his gallantry
amazingly!
yy
Lord and Lady St
Clair looked, and Julia, quite impatient, eryed, “sn)\2ixdoyou mean, Sir Horace? 1 insift upon knowing thi& excellent joke; ’’ and getting up, looked over the drawing as he held it in his hand. Now, fair enflaver, is it not entirely finished?? wonv you take my word another time?” ' I was really hurt for the confusion I had unintentionally been the occasion of; and did not dare raise my eyes to Lady julia’s. With a presence of mind all her own, she in a moment recovered her perplexity, and called out, ‘ ‘ ah, Selina, this is some of your’s; how could you be So cruel ?” “Mine, my dear, I protect I have not seen Gup id
thh
3s
 .
this morning.” No, i’ll be Sworn miss Courtney has had no hand in it, ’tis too masculine for her’s; and if Ihe had, the initials belong to homebody whose misfortunes Ihe is acquainted with, and whose character Ihe has Supported with great truth. “Let me look at it, ” Said Lady St. Clair. “No, indeed, his Such a Ihocking daub it Shall never see the
light again.
a
Had you not better
burn it then r” added Lady St. Clair, with a very sly looxk, “No, I Shall cut out the drawing, and palle it upon, another paper, as it may serve for a. design upon which I think I can im
^ I
prove.” “Let me advise yon” said Sir Horace, when you copy it, to make the young gentleman return the dart into its quiver; for in his present attitude he is a dangerous object;; not
you think.so .^” “I, have, had no reason.

' .
n
O
9
A
fbn to think Sobefore.’^ ‘‘then you feel there is reason now “
no
in Iliortyou really do pester and tease me So I do not know a word I Say.” ' She rang the bell, a Servant came, “Do tell the gardener to gather me a nosegay; ” “and tell him, ” Said her per secutor “if there are any rofesp to be Sure to cut off the thorns'v He Iliut the door. “oddso! he is gone too far, or I would have desired him to bring a little: love lies a bleeding, for Mr. Drum motida “This Itroke completed our ©mbarraltment, for mine was quite as great as her Lady ship’s. “1 find, ’^' Said fly, “I mull treat you. Sin Horace, as I do Lord Mordington; and when I can’t silence him by other

means, I fly. to the Piano, ’, ' ’
Sir Horace is an universal genius aad, da(hes at everything; is equally
/
s
40  .
as fond of musicasof its filler art. He followed her, and opened for her the music book that laid on the delk: it
t
was jackfon’s Canzonets. ‘‘
See
there, fiir lady, how impossible it is for you to change the subject;; same invisible hand who finished Cupid, has taught your book to open at “Love in thine eyes forever plays.’* Can anything be more apropos to his Situation? But do fing it. Lady Julia, for I admire it much, and Mr Drummond I know sings the fecondp It never was a favourite of mine, ” faidflie, 1 like the next better, and
a
I
you wdli join with me in that? would, but really we Should not fing in tune; an old voice and a young one make no harmony.”
The servant who announced dinner dould alone put a Hop to Sir horace’s
jokes.
 . 41
jokes, which were become really painful; and I Saw in Lady julia’s eyes tears of vexation. How did they reproach me for my folly! At table
Julia often addressed hgi' conversation to me, and talked on trifling matters that had palled at our former meetings; but 1 Saw too plainly her civility was a force on her inclinations, and I longed moll impatiently for Sir Ho race’s departure, that I might hav a chance of making my peace. It was near eight before he took leave, when, turning to Lady St. Clair, he Said I forgot to tell you that my dame Sent me on purfofe To alk you to a little music tomorrow; we have also got a party of young folks who love dancing, and they hope, with the addition of your two ladies, to make up a hop. What say 3^011, aye or no ?” “Oh, will come, you ma deoend on it; a
danco
N
42  ..
dance is a thing that we love in our
hearts.’^ And you
>
II D. will have no objection to joint this party. Your leg is not hampered,, though your arm is; and you can dance tho’ you cannot play? Do not fear,, we will get you a partner, xho^jhejjoouu.
I bowed;
a very hearty alfent. “Come, ” Said he, “Lady Julia, Ihake hands, and let us part friends; I wotet say a. word about Cupid.” She gave him
9 _
her hand with the utmost good humour..
be cruel, ” winking at me.
Lord St. Clair attended him down
f
I
flairs; Lady St. Clair withdrew; and the two young ladies and myself went to the window to admire Sir horace^s equipage. Selina stole off, and before. Ladyjulia was aware we were tete a tete. The moment was not to be lost! and I
made
S r
 . 42
made all the use of it I could, but Hill file was inflexible, neither Serious reasoning, nor raillery, has yet gained me her pardon; Still I am Sanguine for
'I
“love will hope, where reason would
(
lespair.

I did not stay Supper, but
thought it right to pay a little attention to my uncle, with whom I am on wonderful good terms; and I have almost gained his consent to write to my cousin to return on his own terms; the poor old man is miserable without
him, but has that unactountable obstinacy in his dispofltion, that it almoh. breaks his heart to make the first; advances. Adieu, I am going to meet ‘^all my soul holds dear. ’’ This letter is long enough for a Sermon, but read as far only as you please, and make allowances for the loquacity of a lover, who is ever your sincere friend,
K D

LETTER
44
L E T TER
LXIII
Lady Julia Harcourts to Mrs, Seymodf*
lhlngbon abbeyi Augujl %
Cannot give you a more fmcer c proof of the real fliendfliip I h^ve for you, my Eliza, than by acquainting you with my Sentiments of drummond’s words and actions. His conduce is exactly the same it was bear his departure; he is lively and agreeable to every one; and at the Same time behaves with a particular attention to myself. I cannot say that is exabuythe case with my own behaviour; I have endeavoured to appear easy and indifferent, but I fear it has been only an endeavour. I have many
times
 . 45
times detected myself being cold and embarrassed, when I wihied to be quite the contrary; but I find the keen edge of what I Suffered a little while ago is not yet So entirely worn off, as to make me on any account risk a Sc -- cond Scene.
We were at a concert and ball at Sir Horace winn’s lafl: night, who is returned once more to Settle in this neighbourhood, and has taken it very much into his head to torment me about Drummond, from two or three circumstances which could not pafs him unnoticed.
The music was extremely fine; It was indeed harmony! When it drew ■near a conclusion. Sir Horace came to
me.
f
‘‘ I was very near proposing to change partners every two dances, but
happening
46  OF frlendshlf*
happening to call my eye upon you, it Struck me how great a mortification that would be to you; for I am certain it would not be agreeable So Soon to be deprived of your firfh partner From this prelude, Sir Horace, I begin to flatter myself, that you intend
I
to do me the honour of asking me yourself to dance, as I do not know any one else in this room whose hand I Should be So anxious to retain.^’ ‘^ah! ypu diftembler, ” said he, how can you, with that grave face, utter Such a fallhood? the initials of my name are
t
notn. D. my pretty Lady Julia, you forget that; but I will instantly bring the more acceptable partner, and you Shall begin the ball; for in my life I think I never Saw a couple So well fuited.’* Off he Was polling, but I
I
caught hold of him, “tor pity's sake, Slop, sirhorace, I will not, on any account.

I
 or . 47
count, dance with Mr. Drummond; and if you are So ungallant as to decline the challenge I gave you, I in treat you will leavfe me to my fate.’* “You cannot Surely be in earnest; I am convinced you have not So much cruelty in yolir nature as to doorn So accomplished a Swain to despair; but if for any ■private reason you would rather decline dancing with Mr. dum mond at present, I will not resign your hand to any in the room; and therefore, gentlemen, ” ( handing up and raising his voice) “I beg you will all provide yourselves with partners as quick as you can, for I am to have the Supreme felicity of dancing with Lady Julia Harcourt
V
He immediately handed me into the dancing room.. We Spent a very agreeable evening; Sir Horace has a
fund
Vs
V
4^  .
fund of chearfulness and good-humour that gives him the power of making all his friends about him happy; and his being a married man, and not very young, makes one take the lioerty of saying a thousand Sprightly things in return, which are Sure to be well taken.
I avoided Drummond as much as I possibly could, confident with any degree of politeness, the whole evening. At lad happening to sit carelessly down at Some didance from the red of the company, he came and Seated himself by me. “Tell me. Lady Julia, for heaven’s sake tell me, in what 1 have been So unfortunate as to incuj; your displeasure; is there no atonement can be made for any part of my pad Gondudl:, that may have odended you? with pleasure would I Sacrifice
mv
m
3
 . 49
my life to procure you happiness; but the mortifying hegled you at present treat me with, wounds my very foul.’* “I am not conscious, Mr.drummond, of having ever treated you with negle61; I Should wish my behaviour to be equally attentive and polite to all my acquaintance; and if any of my actions have been So doubtful as to give you cause to misconftrue them, I in freat you will have the goodness to think it was not intentional, and 1 will
endeavour to correct them.” “And,
\
can you possibly think. Lady Julia,
that a polite attention is a return Suf
\.
ficient for a heart that dotes upon you with that warmth of affection that mine

does! Will you not give me Some hopes, that time, and my unceasing assiduities to please you, will at lait Soften the rigour of your present treatment ?” “Mr. Drummond, I will be
Vol. III
D
111-
■ OF FTUEK'DSHI’P
ringenuous with you; there wa a time jperhaps, when I felt for you the moil lively ;; will not deceive you, more than  might have "followed; but that rhyme is pad: and can never more return! your behaviour tome was Such as 1 can never forget; you profelfed a  for me, and at the same time behaved with a reserve that would, in my opinion, have been unpardonable in a common ac -- quaintance. You had, I make no •doubt your reasons for it; and we mull all Stand or fall by the rectitude of our own hearts. I Should not perhaps have been So explicit at present, had I not wished the subject to be dropped for ever. I am inclined to think my sentiments arefuch, as it is not in the power of time, or any circumstance to alter; and tho’ I Shall always be h: ypy to meet Mr. Drummond as an
agreeable
 . Jl
agreeable acquaintance, yet I mull seriously request, that love and friend ihip be forever banished from our conversation.’^
Cruel Lady Julia! you know not how deep you have planted a dagger in my breast by your words How painfiiil, to give a glimpse of happiness, and then banish it from my view forever; Will you tell me I had once a chance of polleffing all my soul holds dear, and then say that hope is loll forever by my own folly and ill conduct?
Relent! for mercy’s sake, re
%
a little of your severity! It was Iliame alone that prevented my making you the confidant of my engagement abroad; the first moment I beheld you, I Saw the folly of promising my hand where I could never give my heart!” At this moment we were
D 2
52,  ,
joined by Sir Horace. “Ha! Monlieur Drummond in a Supplicating tone! It won’t do; take my advice for once, the young lady is not disposed to be kind to you this evening; a word Spoken out of feason may do your cause more harm than good; go, and seek your partner, and I will take care of this cruel fair one for the present.” You must take my partner too then. Sir Horace, ” Said Drummond, “for this lady has absolutely rendered me unfit for dancing this evening.”
“Poor fellow! Lady Julia, hoy can you be so unrelenting! mu have, I declare, quite transformed this lively, youth into a perfect Don Difmallo i but now 1 look at you, I do not think you are in much higher Spirits yourself. 1 begin to think I have interrupted
 .
53
rupted you at a most unseasonable juncture; I believe it will be bell to leave you to make up your quarrel again, and go and dance with miss Courtney, Ihe was your partner I think, Mr. Drummond
Off he went, and left us in the nioft awkward situation that it was possible for two people to be in. Drummond fgemed quite unable to speak; and you will believe, Eliza, I was not in a condition to help him out. I Sat Some time to recover myself a little, and then rose; he attempted to Seize my hand, but I left him hastily, and went to the card room. We Soon after took our leave without feeing him again.
D 3
He
54  OF FRIENDSHTF.
•A
He has not been here this morning; I rather fuspect he is gone ta Wansford. When yon know more
of him you will find him a great
&
addition to your society.. He is an,
I
agreeable man, and deserves to be happy! but it must never be with your
Julia Liar court
I.DTTER
/
ATH'OF. ..
5: ^-
L E T T E R' LXIV
Mrs. se\'mourf do Lady jaua Harcoitrt.
feansfirdaioiifet ^auguji 4,
N Friday, my friend, I promise myself the pleasure of introducing my caro fpofo to my dear Lord and Lady St. Clair;, and my fond heart tells me I shall meet with their full approbation of my choice.
\
. J flatter myself, my dear Selina will
not retrad the promise Ihe made of
returning home with me; pray re •
her of it, and tell her I will not
excuse her. I think, Julia, I mull..
bring with me Some of those injlrufuve:
%
letters I have been favoured with from
D 4
you


 .
:
I
: h
you, on the flibje£t of matrimony. You see they have made a convert of me; perhaps the perusal of them might soften your own heart towards poor Drummond. I perfectly agree with you in regard to his former behaviour, it was extremely reprchen fible. But, fha II we not receive a penitent, when we are convinced that his contrition is sincere?? your own favourite speech from shake fpear on Mercy, ‘mt is twice blefsed; it biefleth him that gives, and him that receives.and in this cafe if I am not greatly mistaken, the blessing would be mutual. Forgive me, Julia but I am Sure you put a violence on
your own
when
you give
Drummond pain. I am called away. Mr. Seymour wishes me to walk with him. Adieu, till my return.
Wei
i
 .
57
We have had a most delighful walk.
f
We went through the wood, and palted those cottages on the other fide of it. As we were sauntering along enjoying the cool breezes and the melody of the feathered fongflers,. a woman came hastily out of one of the houses, and begged Mr. Seymour to go for five minuted to. speak to her husband.. he was much better, and wished to see
him. Seymour turned to' me, and said,
0
if you will excuse me. my Eliza,, I will attend him immediately assented.. As soon. as he came near.
r # •
the, door, four little children, came running to him with every mark of affection and gratitudehe fpoketo them all with inexpressible kiiidnefs,.

and then went to their father. The poor woman eyes were filled" with
tears; lafkcd.her how her ^ as. I presumed tliofe were). came to

be
58

be So well acquainted with Mr. Seymour? ‘‘oh, Madam!’* exclaimed

she“ “is not a person on earth to whom they are So much obliged. We.
/ I '
have only. lived here about three months; my husband came to work with a farmer in this neighbourhood but soon after we were fettled in our
r
house he was taken ilb; and both he
•. ■ ■ • ...
and those fopr helpless infants
f
must have been fiatved, but for. the kindness and charity, of Mr. Seymour; imdwe are under Still greater obligar tions to hirti, for giving, my hpfband a proper idea of, religion. As’ hers now a good man,! may venture to say what he once was. Indeed you can have no notion how very, wicked he
..was, at the time he was taken ill; a
\ .•_/*.<. ....
worse husband, or worse father, never
#
noor woman and helpless innocents
lads

.59')
had. Now he is all kindness to me, and affedfion to his .children. This blessed reformation did Mr. Seymour make! Judge then. Madam, ...if, we have not reason to be grateful.' Heaven I hoperwill reward his piety.’’
The poor woman’s .tears flowed lo > fall Ihe could proceed no further. Seymour returned jtift as Ihe. had done • Speaking. He observed the starting tear in my eye,, and prelfed my handl. with a Smile that would have adorned > an angel’s face.
You, Julia, can form no of the raptwe which Jn that moment glowed in my bosom.. fond delight with which I viewed my Seymour?: and the>real gratitude I felt to heayen for placing me ih.a State of
haa

I
j
tt ^!!
it
II
i!;
III
i t
Hr
it
il
l!li
III
II
III
I
LI
!!
II
I
•
IV
II
hi
hi
f'
: • t
!r
!!
I 1 4 H
II
iil
1 j
i'is
0.8
t r
II
Ml
'I!
•. I '»
II
11
, 1
!i.'
I lo
lb
; let
'• 1
■, 1
'• 1

’»! b
i I
li
mi
•
4o  OF FRIENDSMIF.,
pinefs which, few enjoy! I would not
have given up the true bliss I felt the
0
remainder of our walk, for the wealth; of worlds.
v
But I (halt tyre you with a subject. which perhaps at present may not be
theme;, but when you are married you wwl^n di how much, more pleasing your hufband'a praises; are than your own.
evmour^.
 ,
LETTER LXV
Menny Drummontij esq. to
Drummond.
jvejihury lodgey Auguji 5..
otj' alk me, my dear Mother, what Success I have in my fmt^ The quellion is soon answered. Lait: night I received from i.ady Juliai z, /pojitive refusal; and yet, tho’ hurt I am not difpiritedl
\

At the same time my fair enflav^
me for ever as a lover, she told me that once her heart was. inclined to think favonrahly of me' Now tell me, my dear Lady D, ( you; who know your own sex so well, andl hay.e. so attentiyely studied the humane
heart),
. >
■ (
f • >
J
loi
tio >' > L
9
• • •
t I.
II
I!;
I I
. i
>»
H

;?!; C
i I
V
*« •
?
.1»
lits

i
i *

u i
': >
■ K
 .
hleart) if this very Sentence does not
authorise me to cherish a flattering,
tho’ perhaps a diftantihope.. I am inclined
to believe, Julia has no other
prcpoffellion,. and on that expeeiation
my heart exults; but Hill I have a
thousand fears inseparable from real
affeciion. At the Same time that I
feel her Severity, I cannot but com
mend her resolution.,
I did not go, to the Abbey this,
morning, as usual; I was busy writing
a long letter^to weftbury, partly at
my uncles desire, to recall him. Poor
old man! he can no longer Support
my coufin’s absenee, or his own rcr
Sentmentand I have painted, selina’s
( i
character in colours "So amiable and
attradive, that he no longer objects
IQ their union; and I have the satissac
UM \


. r
• a tk


 '
V
6

♦
tionof thinking however I am disposed,, of, Charles will be happy..
wjien I. rose. this morning Lady julia’s behaviour Hill. opprehed me,. and I deterinined not to go to living flpn for two or three days. But I could not re lift the pleasure of giving ease to the heart of miss Courtney. I therefore left my uncle at his coffee,
• # I
and took my journey on foot.. I met the fair friends at the end of the Park: they turned; about with me, and we
proceeded to the house,
Julia
reception of me was coldness itself. ^ I, I make no doubt, looked very foolilfi; a., comfortable situation!! Said 1 perceived I was. an unwelcome intruder
j.
on their solitude, but I flattered 'myself the intelligence I brought would for ifice ensure me a friendly reception f5jt, defei'ves a high reward, but I
am

. • A
ifl
Ut
d
III
'i
; if

t
I
j
Ilf
ir. u.
I •
64
 .
am reafbnablb, and' alk only a Smile.
I am Sure of receiving it fromyt)u, Southeast
%
and flatter myself even Lady Julia will deign to' look, on me with greater kindness, though I Shall have.
t
more reason to ascribe it to her friendr ship for you than to any merit of my
’ After this formal introduc
0
lion, I related the substance of my present embalty. Poor Splina Smiled thro’ her tears; the amiable and afscg tionate Julia very heartily Sympathised with her friend; for her heart is open ta every impression, butt
own.
Mils Cburtney thanked mer the haews,, and added fly believed it waste me alone they were indebted' for this wonderful change ih my ' “How will this adt of frie'ndihip for
ever ensure you our gratitude ahd af
fe<stion.**
 . 65
fed ion.” The poor girl was over
#
with the agreeable intelligence, and very readily accepted my arm the rest of the walk; I durft not offer the other to Julia, though I believe it would not at that moment have been rejected The hurry of all our spirits being a little abated, I asked if Lord St. Clair was at home .N as I willed to see him to return him thanks for the handsome manner in which he had behav -- ed to me, and for that candour and generosity which my cruel fate allowed me not to profit by; to Some happier man I must leave that bliss I had the temerity to aim at, not considering that the eagle alone can gaze on the fun with impunity. Forgive me. Lady Julia, if in the last hour I ftiall spend with you, I cannot help touching a little on the oldsubjed. tomorrow
I leave the lodge, and this fair field, ta
xi\f

66
 OF FRIENDSHIB'
niy happy rival; iiothing remains for me now but to inform him I am nos
4 *
longer an obstacle to his wishes.” “tov whom do you mean to give this information, Mr.. Drummond “To, Lord. Malbourne, Madam; can I do less, after the honourable manner in: which he withdrew his addreltes. om my account
'‘ Upon my word, I do not underhand these points, of etiquette between > you 3 gentlemen; all I know is that, it will be extremely disagreeable to ’ “What then would you have.
me.
me do. Lady: Julia ?’* “Follow your own judgement; subjects of this naturo become soon enough the topics of public conversation.’* “That may be die cafe. Madam, but I am Sure you would defpise the man who could be
i '
.either unjust or ungenerons to an old
friend.’^
/
 .
67
“You leave this neighbourhood tomorrow, Mr. Drummond; do you mean to go to Wansford?’^ ‘‘ No, Madam, I Iliall go home.” “Could not the presence of two friends tempt you to alter your resolution for a few days ^ Mr. and Mrs. Seymour, are to be with us on Friday; and I think they would be much disappointed to find you gone the day before they came.” “these are indeed powerful temptations; if I could flatter myself my stay would be pleasant, to all parie

» ic
tics, 1 Should gladly yield to it. will be So, if you will cease to converse on the only subject that can make it
otherwise.” ‘fthat subject, and its author, will I hope offend no more; but perhaps, Lady Julia, we might be friends, though you say we can be no thing more ?” Come, come, Ju
X
lla, ” Said the Sweet Selina, do not
refuse:
: I
r 1
68
 .
refuse him that poor boon on Such a night as this. My Soul is all peace, let yours be so too. He deserves that 1 should entreat for him; and you do not often refuse nry requests ?** gave me a trembling hand! her eyes were filled with tears! what a moment was that! and how eager was my
heart to pour
all its tenderness:
but I wait for one still more propitious,
My dear mother, what will you % to all this Scene, interesting alone to
the actors in it? but toyott only do I describe fuqh, and only now to give you an idea of our present situation. Write to me immediately, and give me your advice and opinion.; tell me also that yourself and my father are well, and think of me; no intelligence can be more pleasing to your moll affectionate
H. R
♦ •
 . 69
LETTER LXVI
Mrs. Seymoury. to Lady Julia iiarcourt.
'jvansford house^ Auguji 12, Ten at Eight.
_ ________
HOLD a promise Sacred at au
times, but more particularly So when given to a friend we love and esteem. I am determined not tolleep till I have performed that I made you at parting, of giving you the earliest intelligence of our Safe arrival at home. We had as agreeable a journey as it was possible, when our hearts told us every Hep we took made the distance greater from you I However, Selina performed it very well, and I have great hopes that the change of place, and the variety Ihe may meet with,
A
added

I
li’

A
70
 OP .
added to the pleasing intelligence flic had received from Mr. Drummond, will reftote‘both her health and Spirits. I will not say with how much regret we left Livingllon and its dear inhabitants, but will leave that for your lively imagination to paint The poll goes out early tomorrow morning, and the late hour we arrived at home' this evening, mull be my apology for so Short a letter; a fault not often committed by your
J
Eliza Seymour.
LETTER
 .

LETTER LXVII
Mrs. Seymours to iady Julia Harcourt.
jeansford house, Auguji 15.
AM Sorry, my beloved friend, to to be under the disagreeable necessity of giving you pain. But as Selina and myself sat working this morning, the newspaper was brought us; Ihe took it to read to me, and calling her eye over it, instantly.
. flew to her alliftance time enough to prevent any bad confe fqiiences from her fall. Seymour heard cme Scream, and fortunately came to 'Our relief. I flattered myself it was
the heat of the room that had been too
• '
much for her; but our alarm was
great
\
72  .
great indeed when we found the moment her fenses seemed returning, Ihe again fainted. In' this state Ihe continued near an hour. We Sent im
i
mediately for a Surgeon, but before he arrived a flood of tears had relieved her burftingheart.
As Soon as Ihe could Speak Mr. Seymour conjured her to tell what had So greatly agitated her; with some difficulty, Ihe cried “Welfbury is dead, ” and again fainted. We put her to bed, and the surgeon took a little blood from her, and Ihe Seems now much more composed.
She has just told me that the Ship in which Lord Weftbury embarked, is lost, and all the crew. She upbraids herself Severely for being the cause of this misfortune; and in the most melting
language

n
[anguage grieves for his ditlrelted pa* rent. Her agonies are far beyond my description. I have in vain endeavoured to Sooth her Ibrrows with a gleam of hope, that Ihe may be mistaken in the name of the Ship; that is impossible Ihe says, it has never lbr a moment been banished from her
mind since Ilie first heard it: her
/ ' ^
boding heart told her when they parted, it was for ever, and now her dreadful fears are all realised.
I have never left her for a moment, nor will I till I have your answer. I send this by a Servant, with orders to return with all poliible Speed. That you, my Julia, may be able to Send consolation to your diftrelfed friends, is the prayer of your
mi za Seymour.
Vol. III
E
LETTER

11
I • •
il
'Mil
If!!
Ml!
IT'
1 il!
I,
vn
III
f
n
) <
i!
f
I
i:; 1
I '
! I
I i
74  m fraindshi?.
LETTER. LXVIII
Miss Courtneyf to Lady Julia Harcourt.
jvansfard jiouje^ Auguji i5h.
AISED from the deepest abyss of despair to a height of joy almost insupportable, your Selina, with trembling hand, once more takes her pen, to make her beloved Julia a partaker; of her present happiness.

Weftbury lives I To describe tfie transport, the thankfulness that filled my bread: when that welcome news was imparted to me, is impossible! Words would but poorly express my feelings at that instant. How many
reasons has your friend for gratitude?
how
 . 7; ^
1
how often when prelled hard by misfortunes, has my rafhness almoll Tempted me to think that I was deserted
by providence; and as I have been
\
almost giving way to despair, Some kind hand has interposed to Succour and relieve me, and restored my hurling heart once more to case and tran
I have begged Mrs. Seymour's
leave to enclose you her friend Mrs.
%
scudamore’s letter, which is the cause of all our present felicity, and ‘ which will give a much more accurate description of the whole tranc action than I am at present capable of doing. Oh, my Julia! by what Siirange means forhetimes are our greated blessings brought about? and how blind
should we be to our own interests, were
E 2
we

76,  .
we left to follow the dictates of our ' erring imaginations?
• •
This storm which has already given us all so much real angnisti, will be the cause of westbury’s returning to England; and I hope he will not again trust the merciless ocean
with a life ib precious to all who know
«
him. I p L rd Mordington has before this time had an account from himself of his safety; I am certain he understands the duty which he owes a father too well, to neglect one moment writing to him after he had it in his power. J. is possible however,, that Mrs. scudamore’s letter might have been ready written when they met with the boat, a precaution he might not think of taking, and which may consequently prevent the intelligence for a post or two coming from
himself.
 OT  ‘]J
himself Left that should be the case, Mr. Seymour will Send a Servant with this immediately; as we are anxious to relieve from the trouble and uneasness which I am afraid you ate at present labouring under.
You can scarcely imagine the kind ness, the affection, which has been Iliewn me by Mr. and Mrs. Seymour; they entered So warmly into all my feelings, and indeed did everything that  could Suggest to afford me one ray of comfort and consolation,,
it was all in vain.
When I
thought Weftbury had periftied, no earthly consideration could throw one gleam of consolation upon my wounded mind; the only satisfaction I re ceived was in reflecting that my weak, frame could not support the agonies I endured, and that a ftiort time would
E 3 ter
7^  OP frfendshfpv
minate my Sorrows.. But I will not distress you, my friend,, by dwelling upon Scenes which are past, and ought only to be remembered with a view to make us more grateful for the blestings we now enjoy.
Adieu, my dearest Julia! my head
and hand are neither of them composed
.A
enough to allow me to write much more. These hasty lines will however feiwetoeafe your mind, and convince you that happiness is once more ii the posteffion of your
Selma Courtney
LETTER
 0f friend^hti?*
r t? T' 1? It
JL Jc^ JL Jk Jm
Mj's. bcuaamorsf to Mr, Sijmour
Auiuji 10, Writim at Sea
E are now so near England, that a few hours will bring us in sight of that promised land. I write this therefore to my Eliza, that I may send it by the first boat that comes off to ns, and give you myself the first intelligence of our Safety. It is possible the ftorra we have experte enced may not have extended far, and that you have had no fears for us; but
I
least you should, I think it best to Set your heart at. ease as Soon as
possible.
E 4
A
r
1
• \
So  OF'.
/
A few days ago I had given up all
hopes of ever feein
hill
you again,
our Spirits should meet in those blessed
regions inhabited by faithful friends.
Everything but the profpe£t of Eternity
had vanished from my light, and
fickness and fear destroyed all desire of
life. Indeed v/e were all perfectly re

Signed to that fate which Seemed inevitably
to await u3; but that power.
whose majesty in Scenes like these is
awfully displayed, chose to reserve us.
I hope for future good. Already has
he miade us the means of preservation
to Some, perhaps, valuable lives.
The storm which I am speaking of.
began six days ago, after a most de
lightful calm.
I had almoll lived upon
deck for Some time, but the wind
Suddenly changed, and it became in
jfk moment a perfect hurricane. If
there

 . 81
♦
there are any persons who can on Such an occasion be tranquil and recollected,, those I must leave the description of this war of elements; a talk, I conn

fess I am utterly unequal to. For three days and nights we drove at the mercy of the winds and waves, every moment expecting that the next would be our last; but when the Strength of the Sailors, and the Spirits of all were just gone, the storm abated, and hope once more reanimated our hearts.
As Soon as our immediate danger appeared to be over, Mr. Scudamoi© went upon deck. He desired me to give him the telescope, ‘‘ .Dis possible *^ he, “Some poor wretches, may, like us, have outlived these dreadful hours; but less able to struggle,, want that assistance which vve
E 5
h a V e

 OF frrenoshtp.
have bellow..^’
in. our power to
It was a, prefentlment Surely inspired by the Deity, for he had not long looked about, ere, at a vad distance
like a boat. He no Sooner mentioned this surmise,, than several of the Sailors acknowledged they had heard a gun go off; they now supposed it mud have been, fired by Some in didress, but till this, moment they, had never given the circumdance a thought, having been Solely occupied by their own danger. Mr. Scudamore begged a be fired which after a little time was answered, and the boat was become perceptible to the naked eye. In an hour or two it arrived along fide the
ship, and presented, I am told, a piteous spectacle; but I was not yet re covered..
un might;
V


0
covered from my illness or itiy fright, and only heard of the event from my Lionel, who was almost frantic with joy to have beeri the happy instrument of saving a despairing fellow creature His generous heart feels with enthusiasm the will to do good; and when; united with the power,, his sensations: are not to be described.
The crew of the boat consisted of six persons; four of them were Sailors, the others a young gentleman and hisv servant, who had been passengers in? die unfortunate veftelthey had quitted.. But they Ihared equally the labour of rowing, and not being used to hardships,
were less able to bear them; and
1
with cold, wet, and hunger, they were: reduced to a very weak, ftatei. Good; nursing has restored the whole party,, and the young gentleman today
1/^
n
M
11
• ’»! 1
j •
i!
/
s4  .
joined onr society in the cabin. Our captain has furnished him with clothes and linen, which tho’ they do not fit exa(5tly well, yet his perscn and manners are so elegant as to make us overlook those trivial matters. I have not
/
yet learned his name; he Ilrives to be cheerful, but has an air of melancholy which clouds a fine countenance, and which we women conjecture of course proceeds from some tmfortunate attachment, or some difafterous catastrophe, the remembrance of which he was flying from. Not a syllable of this may be true, but our wits you know must work upon Something, and this is a fine subject.
. had not laid down my pen an hour after writing the above, when
\
((
 . 85
my husband called to me to go upon deck. I am never dilatory in complying with his requests, and pointing towards England, he Said, “there, my love, behold the white cliffs of our dear little island.i jumped for joy, and clasping my hands together, exclaimed, ‘‘ then heaven be praised, I may see Eliza Darnley once more!
Darnleyl ma^am?*’ reechoed the stranger, who was at my elbow,. “Then you muji be the Mrs. Scudamore She has expected with anxious solicitude?” ‘‘ The very same. Sir; but tell me inslantly, are you also her friend? indeed if you know her you must be foin Short, Eliza, it was i/tri Wejtbury, whom Sihguiar fate had made our companion; and what

I think Hill more singularis

that r
who have not a grain of romance in my own composition, am forever


I"
LI
‘i i
ft •
i''
: J
: I i
I :
LII
!! i
T:
II
if ■:
1: 1 = < 1 *
j
II
L
\
$6  .
defined to be the historian of those who have; an employment ill calculated for a sober mortal like myself.
My new acquaintance told me he was not only your friend., but the friend of your husband.. you have exchanged your own name for that of the moll worthy man in the world.. I cannot express to you the hurry my spirits and affections were in, to be: latished of every circumstance in regard to you. I aiked so many questions, made so many inquiries, all in a breathy that Lord West bury must.
have had an hundred tongues to have:
%
been able to give answers to themalh Nn one could be more desirous to Satisfy my curiosity than he was; and

you will have nothing to tell me when
we meet, as I know your whole life
and. adventures; and not only your's
but
(M i
It
I
ILL

 OF FRTENDSHIP.
87
Lord weftbury’s too, for this, rencontre inspired mutual confidence; and we are now no longer strangers,, and civil to each, other, but friends of an hundred years old. what pleasure do I experience in giving you intelligence of the safety of your friends; and’ how thankful to that providence who puts it in my
power
The Ship in which Lord Weftbury^ embarked was only just got out of ' the Channel when the storm began; the master and five, of the men were waftied overboard before the re -- mainder took to their boat, in which they had been forty hours when they espied our sail, the first glimpse of fefety they had been blessed witho,
W eftbury
believe.

88  .
eause of his dejected countenance, and I think I can See that the light of land is not to him a very unpleasant prospedt, and he is inclined to partake of the general joy.
I am So very desirous to quit an element on which we have encountered Such ^(langers, that I hope Mr. Scudamore will indulge me in taking the hrft opportunity of doing so, and
getting into any little boat that comes
«
pif to us, and make the best of our way to town; when after a few days spent in adjufling our affairs, we mean to claim the welcome of both your husband and yourself at wanf ford House. Our new and agreeable friend w ill be of our party till different routs oblige us to Separate.' I tell him providence has been busily employed in planning his future happiness,

 . 8: 9
ness, and that it forbids him anymore to
banish himself from the object of his
* A
attachment. He smiles and calls me his excellent comforter; and agrees to follow my advice till he shall find ( what he fears) that my hopes are fallacious.
Farewell, my dear friend, a boat is arrived by which I send this, but as they are not officers of the customs, but those who come t buy our contraband goods, we do not think it prudent to accept the temptation. Lord Wedbury and Mr. Scudamore join me in every good wijfh to you and your’s.
Your mod faithful,
Emily Scudamore.
*
LETTER

i;
r!
LI t
Hi
iii

1
:! i
I'lr
1 Ti’
lij
'I!
ill
i: j {
I i'
'i*jj''
i ill! * ill!:
i, h : III I hi,,
ill i
nil
hi! I
!|1*
li
ifi
b'l'i
!i II iu ]
ill
.fi i
■, : U j Jt j
LII U
ti
: n
I
it
I

t:
{>
1*1
L I
II
1*1
.It
}
il >
1?*’, < site!'
liite
i
ll
is
I
90  OF friendshifj
LETTER
LXX
i.aih jum Hareourt, to Miss
Lmnglhn abbey^ Augufi 17
OU will, I doubt not, give me credit for the anxiety I have lately felt on account of the sufferings of my beloved Selina. Mrs Seymour's letter threw us all into the deepest af fli(5tion; my jmother and myself wept with unbounded sorrow for, the loss of Wellbury; and my father’s, Soul is of too, Sympathising a. nature to bear unmoved so, melanchply an event.
As Soon as I could recover mv
4
voice fuxeciently to be able to Speak, I requested my mother’s leave to go to
Wansford,
 .
Ot
w
Wansford. Tho’ I cannot administer comfort to Selina, it will at lead bo a satisfaction to me to be with her, and endeavour all in my power to alleviato that grief which there is reason to fear (he will too severely experience' mother immediately agreed to my proposal, and it was determined I should fet odin the morning. We retired early; when the mind is labouring under a weight of sorrow, even the company of thole we love becomes areftraint.
In the morning as soon as I was informed the carriage was ready, I took leave of my friends, and was hastening to it, when as I entered one door of the hall, Drummond came to the other. He was pale and languid; his countenance expressive of the moult fettled melancholy and it Seemed with dif
92  OF friendshi?*
'ficulty that he Supported himseif, As
Soon as I law him a thousand ideas ^
• *
crowded themselves into my imagina.'
#
tion; I found it impossible longer to restrain my feelings, and finking into a chair near me, a violent flood of i tears gave a little relief to my opprelt
heart. 1 find, lady Julia, ” Said he, coming up tome, it wih now be unneceifary to explain the purport of, .this vific; you are already apprized of the melancholy occasion of it.” ‘‘then alas!” Said I, “all hope is at an end; : you have had the dreadful news confirmed, and there is not one ray of consolation remaining.” “For heaven’s sake, ” said he, “do not thus give way to despair; we have received only newspaper intelligence; and I still have hopes that my friend may be
safe.
’> (6
Vain hope, ” said I, “all is
now over, for Weftbury
Dead
 OF frisjodshlt. 93
Dead ere his prime, and has not left his peer.” ‘‘ But whither are you going, Lady Julia, you Seem prepared for a Journey, I hope you are not going aione; in the State of mind you feern to be in at present, you will be in g.reati.want of company.” ‘d am going, ” Said I, ‘vto Selina.” Poor girl!” Said Drummond, and the big tear rolled down his cheek as he Spoke, how much I wilh .Dcould attend you; but you will not adtept of me for a companion. I came to request Lord St. Clair would be so kind as to ’go along with me, and endeavour to sooth my uncle’s mind; the violence of his own temper is now entirely fallen upon himself, I cannot express his distraction.” Poor Lord mor dington, ” Said I, “his j>eace of mind mud be gone for ever; tvho can bear
C ^
the reflection that they had once a Son
like
/
/
il


94 WRIATH OF .
like Wellbury, and loll him by the
perverseness. of their own disposition!

3}
Just as I Spoke a servant came to
me with a letter, as he Said, from Mr.
Seymour./‘then, Said I, “Selina
my dear Selina, is fallen a victim to
her attachment.” I took the letter, and
endeavoured to open it but in vain,
my agitation was So violent I could
not break the Seal.” “Will you give
me leave to affill you/’ Said Drummond
? “Let me iikewise persuade
you to calm and compose your mind
a little; you will really make yourself
ill by the warmth of your own feelings;
this letter is from Miss Courtney!”
This alfurance revived me a little, Itook
the paper, and running my eye hastily
over it, what different fensationj
instantly took polfeinon of my bread: *
I

95
I gave it to Drummond to read; you, my Selina, will be able to judge by your own feelings what our’s were at that moment. He was absolutely transported; he begged my permission to carry Mrs. scudamore’s letter to Lord Mordington, which you may be Sure I complied with. I returned immediately to the drefllng room, where I had left my mother, to make tier a partaker of my joy.
In the afternoon Drummond came again. Lord Mordington accompanied him. You never Saw a poor old man in so strange a way; he was in a state between laughing and crying the
whole time he was with us.
He
blamed himself as being the cause of weftbury’s misfortune, ^‘but I am now Sorry, extremely sorry for my raftinefs; and if you, my Lord St.clair,
will
i
 OF FRII^^DSH1P

will^end for your Selina, I will with pleasure bellow my Son upon her; they shall be happy in their own way.
s
I have not forgot that She would not marry him without my consent. She is I believe a good girl, and Such ftrid ideas of duty ought to be rewarded.”
I could hardly credit my fenses; that | Mordington Should reason thus, i
. I
was aftonifliing! My father applauded | his design. I will venture, my
r
Lord, to give my consent for Miss Courtney; tho’ she is not here to answer for herself, Ihe is above disguise, and will not keep a man that loves her in suspense. I have long Seen her partiality for Lord Wellbury; nothing could give me more real pleasure than to see them united.” “I am glad of it, ” Said Lord Mordington, “then we Shall not dif'gieeon thatfubjedl; and now I have to beg. your interference
in
 . 97
in another affair. There sits a poor fellow, a great deal more than half melancholy, and Sorry am I to add, it is for love, a foolish dog! love fora girl that does not deserve him; a girl that would gladly have had him when he was engaged to another woman, but who becatise he is now at liberty, and offers her his hand in an honourable way, must show her airs forsooth Let
me entreat you, uncle.” “And let me entreat you, nephew, to hold your tongue; I will not bear to be dilated to by you even in my best humours; but let me tell you. Lady Julia, you are a silly girl for trifling away your own happiness. He will make you a good husband, I will answer for him; had you Seen his affeoiion, the tenderness he file wed to me last night, when 1 was plunged into the deepest aflliftion a human being can be sensible of, I be
Vol. III • F iievc
I;

*;
b! i
|: i!
II
» \ •
; i * (
1.
n
1
; i
1 1
il
^"8
 .
heve it would have Softened even your hard heart a little.’’ That is a Subject, Said my father, I am determined never to interfere in. I honellly confess
I did not like Mr. Drummondh
behaviour the last time he was here; but he has now cleared that up entirely, and if Julia thinks Ihe can be happy with him, fly has my full consent, but I will never persuade her.” ‘‘there now, that is exactly your character” ” Lord Mordington, “you are the moult perverse man I ever met with. Why will not you renounce your errors, as I have done mine; will you carry that obstinate temper of your’s to the grave ?” >
1 was going to tell you in the most methodical manner imaginable, all that was said on this occasion; how Drummond pleaded, and I relented;
bul
Breath of friene>^hi>*
but it very fortunately occurred to mc’, that tho’ I might write vvhat he fald^ i could not nmke you, my Selina, fert
g
fible how he looked at that moment \ and you might perhaps think I was too easily Softened. But it was ho such thing, for though I did promife riot to be quite so cruel in future, it was only a sort of probationary bulinefs t thtit if he continued to behave well at the end offix ox seven yton's, I might perhaps at the expiration of that time, be tempted to give him my hand.
And now, my friend let me eorii
✓
gratulate you upon the prospect of happiness which I hatter myself is before you; for though we knew a little or Lord mordington’s change of sentiments before you went away, yet I confess I had my fears that it was only at drummond’s earpeft entreaties, and
F 2
that

100  .
that he would again relapse as the time approached. But this storm has I think, affrighted him So much, that he Seems now completely fixed in his good intentions.
Drummond has just called to tels us that Lord Mordington has had a letter from his Son, with an account. of his escape. How much I Should | like to see this Mrs. Scudamore, that has been the means of Ib much hap j pinefs to us all; and to none more!
I
* L
than your
ynlia Harcouru

'1
LETTER
t.
.
^ -
f
I I
;
/
 . loi
.1
N
L E T TER LXXI
Henry Drummond, Esq. to Lady
Drummond,
jvejlhury lodgey Augujl 19.
My Dear Mother,
HERE is not anything I have
So absolute an aversion to as receiving
and paying morning visits in the country; it runs away with the bell part of that time we can never recall and leaves nothing behind to. make amends for the loss, or that can afford one pleasurable idea. I have been reflecting upon this abuse all the afternoon, having received fredi provocation this morning; and think I could write an essay upon the Subject
F 3 that
• I
if
} 1
! i
I
I 1
: i
I ♦
I I
I!
1 i
. 1
.1 ‘
!f
i I 1 ■ 11 I
t,
; t 1
- I?
. : 1
LI i
'!;
I' I
jtq 2 WR B ATH OF F R IE N D S HI?.
that might be of use to the world. But I Satisfy myself with resolving, when Julia and! are married, never to beat home to these idle people. You see I really begin to talk with confidence of being married to the idol of my heart; and had it not been for the grievance I
have already complained of, I might
*
#
at this time have been able to tell you the day which is to crown my felicity, and make me in my own opinion the most enviable person, in the three
I breakfasted this morning at the Abbey, and was enjoying a charming; conversation with Lady Julia, when the whole female family of the wynn’s came in, and destroyed in a moment the labours of an, hour. You know I am very fond of arithmetic, and was at momeat working a Sum in reduce'
tion,..
11' ’
I,
fh!
II • r
111
ill
 . loj
tion. Julia had promised, on mf Sood behaviour to reward me with
O
her hand in ftx or seven years; I had just reduced this eternity into montb'sy and was proceeding to bring it irtto tveeks tavidi daysf when these fair time killers n^de their appearance. ben on Haughter and deftrudfion. Away ilew reason and all her Sober train, and left behind her nothing but folly, ridicule, insatiable curiosity, and affed atior. Love, it is true, crept into my bosom, and endeavoured to console m for my disappointment; but amon such a Society, he durst not Iliew hia head. My mortification, I believe was very visible. Julia I law langhed^^ at my dillress; and the Misses, I believe took notice of it, and lengthened' their visit, resolving to punish me for my want of attention to their charms. Every object; however but my love is
F 4
to


ll
• I
t
t :
104  .
to me an absolute blank; and in her eyes, I read all the knowledge I wilh
V
to poffess at present. I doubt not, you would have a desire to know how this agreeable change in my circum dances has been brought about? Even by marvellous events, the interposition of benevolent genii, by ftorrns and fnipwrecks, by the supposed death of Weftbury, and his Surprising resur redfion, and by Something dill more wonderful! the intercellion of my gracious uncle! who, it mud be con selsed, does not make love in a very interejiing manner, but Julia was at that moment all tenderness, and even his rough manner of pleading found the way to her heart. I oughts to tell you the adventures of Charles, Lord
S
Weftbury, and Selina Courtney, but I will get Some ingenious Scribbling lady to work it into a novel, and them. ■ you
 . i05-
«
you will have it all together, which is what you mull never expect from me; for at present I am so engrossed with, my own affairs, that I cannot write or think of any other subject

X
/
I beg you will let me know when you receive /dh, for I am inclined to; doubt the reality of everything; and, am not very clear at this moment whether I do exist or not, and whether I
am dreaming or writing to you; but have a perfect recollection that Julia told me she loved me and onxfme^ Can I have, after this, one wilh left? Yes, in the midftof all my transports, I remember that I have two friends at Drummond place, who share in all my pleasures, and I wish that they could be a witness of them, and that my felicity could be increased by their presence.
F 5 The

/
u
Ul
f *1 *
m
LI

j:
!i ‘
f
n
■ \ ft
r
Si

f •
i66  OF friendshxr.
The Seyiiioiirs have paid their vit, and miss Courtney is Still with, them, So that I have Julia all to myself; you mull ^ pardon me if I repeat her sanie an hundred tinjes over. We \valk, we ride read, converse, c. ^5 the whim of the moment inspires; and look down on the husy world who know not the passion of love, as on
4
wretched mortals bereaved of heaven V
k
best gift. Farewell, my dearell mother, I am as much as ever your moult

t

 FRIENDSHIR%
LETTER LXXII
Mrs, Scudamore: ^, toimrs*
Exeter Attgujl' i c,
Hkve once more Set my foot oa, Britilh ground, but I have not time, my dearest friend, to tell you the rapr tures I experienced on that occasion I i leave you to guess what your owa would have been after So many yearsi; absence. I am Sure your imagination will paint [them much better than my pen, which at present must be emr. ployed on other fubje(51: s,.
I now ft eat a moment: fromi my reft: to go on with that. Series of wonderful;
adventurejs Ibegan So long, ago, and:
tn
: I
!i :
U •
!t : !M
1
LI;
! i
2 r
:
!!

I 4
ill

i

I
i08  .
■ %
in which you will now become inter olted as well as myself. I hope the melancholy in my history will Soon have an end; and that joy and gladness will Succeed to those volumes of misery and Sorrow.
We landed at Falmouth yesterday noon, and proceeded on our journey in two poll chaises. In the first were Orixana and myself; Lord Weftbury and Mr. Scudamore followed in the Second.; the road was excellent, and we travelled till Supper time. How eagerly did my eye glance into all the little cottages we palsed, where the happy and contented families were, talking over the labours of the day;, at lead: my fancy presented to me these. simple and innocent amusements; the legendary song carolled by the husband, his wife listening as Ihe repaired
their

'trazzx
 . i09
their Scanty wardrobe, and the chiictreii continually putting a Stop to the whole by their prattle, and their questions.
The next morning we rose with the lark, and had gone many miles before the eyes of your fine ladies had thought fit to rival the brightness of the Sun. About noon the chaise in which my Indian friend and myself were, broke down, without any further harm than giving us a trifling fright, - for the delay it was likely to occasion did not qnqnput us out of temper fortunately we were near a village, and a blacksmith could easily Set all to rights again. The gentlemen wanted us ta go forward in their’s, and to fuficr them to wait; but I told them I felt myself in a Jlrange country, and would not Separate from my protedlors. The day was fine, and we strolled on
by
'M
il!"
'll"
• u:
lit ' r
ii!!

I'
II
11 • I
il If' I'hi,
«, I
Mci
Mb'
fi
LI
b U '
i
I Hi
M
r
I f
j :
Ut ’ :; !!!
il
III
il
n *«!
i'll
il i
ic 1 •»: i i
CI
III
t i
i,
!'i ' (
U '
I
'm
ll
Hi
1■ Hi
LI
LI
i i
/
ilo  .
by the lide of a park till we came near the village. The place looked delightful, the grounds were Surrounded by young and luxuriant trees, whose boughs hung feathering to the earth with the weight of their leaves; here
and there openings were made thro’ the plantation to give a transient view of the interior part, which was laid out with taste; and art appeared to have aided nature in her bell manner. My curiosity was raised by the uncommon beauty of the Scene. I love lightsi you know, and of this sort I am now become more particularly fond, by having been So long deprived of them. We pointed our steps to a gate which seemed to open into; the gardens, a man came out, whom we met and interrogated; he proved to be the gardener, and readily turned back to Show •us the place..
It

 OF FR I fl^tsif I P. HI
It belonged he Said to a Mr. Dacre a single man of large fortune, who was at present in. London, or he could hot have indulged us with a sight of there gardens, as it was a favour he never allowed. 1 grew rather delicate of faking the advantage, but the gentlemen overruled my Scruples. He firll Showed us the fruit garden,, and; treated us with delicious grapes, See. which proved a moil refreflring repast so weary travellers. The conservatorv was in the highest Style of magnificence, and here we met with many Indian plants, our old acquaintance. Grixana was pofisefited with the idea that the owner mull have lived in India; but the Servant Said no, he was told he never had, though he himself did not know much of him, being only just
come to the place.

i
I 12

We rambled, forgetful of the disafter that brought us here, thro’ groves of tall and beautiful llov/ering Ilirubs, which formed quite a labyrinth; and amongst which, rustic Seats of moss and roots were every now and then presenting themselves. I took notice to our attendant of a bower which terminated the walks; it was Itiii at Some distance, and my feet unused to walk did not keep pace with mv mind. He told me it was he believed a bu rying place, but that was all he knew about it. My curiosity was increased, and we hafled on to Satisfy that reftless companion. The yew, the cypress, and the weeping willow, were the only outward ornaments of this pensive spot; a Seat of Sods was placed oppo site to a Small marble urn on a plain pedestal, over which the branehes of the trees hung drooping, and around
the
  I i3
the bottom crept the. melancholy widow wail just Ihedding its purple flowers.
My Indian friend hung on my arm, her mind Seemed to catch a tinge from the solemnity of the scene, and tears trickled down her cheeks. We walked round this monument, and on the fide towards the seat, beheld a scroll with these words.
Sacred to the Memory
O F
\
O R I X A N A
Gracious God! what a discovery I and what were my fensations! I instantly turned, hoping my companion had not observed the inscription! but I turned too late! for Ihe fell at my feet deprived of sense or motion. The gentlemen had not yet joined us, and
the
I I i
L
i i
.M
i. i I
!■
"iiiu;
I
II
C
lii ‘
Lah >'
'Si
■ii
•bii I
ii
i li

r I ■
'U;
1.' i i
. f »> '
'lilmo I 11 t
'ihlp
ij II ■
I
■1!
II
• I : I ‘
il
■i. Iji
, i: : i {
il
M
U
i :
't
ill! ■’ll' >
II II
iili! 1:
Till ' iilif.
II I!
ill
•tu II!
hjllcti
ch’ii ^ ihhlm
uln i['
« i r'l :
It •
nit
:; h

iim n; 1
l‘ f
II
*h’ ll ••rill
I I h t
lll li’j I
‘bb!
ilbloi
1(1
8'
; ui • ‘‘is
II '
1 ‘
il!
"It
: >
I i
if
Ih
u
I
il

(>
!»»♦
LI
LI
!!>
i
n
i'll
lb I
t »
iili!

■. t' ' n I mihil.f
iiiiib


• .'■'{ i’
I'iilil!
10
V ' .'
i I
Lib 1:
! SL!
i; II II
ibiii
if
II  .
gardener could alone aftist me. He
raised her from the ground, till Scudamore
whom I called to, came to my
aid. I thought at that moment She
O
was dead, but he altured me she
breathed, and we Sent the man into the
house, to procure Some water, orme
thing to recover her. A very r
able looking woman Soon came to iis
with hartshorn and water, and after
rubbing her temples, c. she came a
little to herself, and in a few minutes
more she had strength enough to get to
the house, where we relied her on a
sopha, till she Ihoiild be again enabled
to pursue her journey.
Tears at last came to her relief, but
she could not speak or alk the questions
natural on Such a wonderful event:
and as we had been told the name of
the present polteltor was Dacre, I did
not
 .

not dare to interrogate, lest we Ilioiild hear ( what I concluded certainly was the case) that Mr. Wentworth was dead, and this I thought was all that was wanting to conclude the sorrows of our dear friend.
Whilst the good housekeeper and myself were standing over Orixana, the two gentlemen walked about the
room
examining the paintings and
drawings which adorned it, many of which were very fine; the chimney piece was hung in great taste with a variety of miniatures. Lord Weftbury had not cast his eyes on more than two, when he exclaimed hastily, what do I see? Heavens, his the pidure of my seuna /” The poor Sufferer now found her Speech; fire rose on her tottering limbs, and cried, ‘‘ where is it, my
lord? Does my child yet live then?
/
or
Ki i
i!
r
1
I
1
t 4
II
Il  .
*
or is it a phantom come again to mock me?’^ You will guess our aftonilliment!
That Selina, whom Lord y/eftbury
< •
doted upon, Should be though' long lost daughter of our Indian friend, was an event too miraculous for belief! But the light of the picture blasted all the hopes of poor Orixana, and only tended to increase her distress“ “no, his not my girl, ftis the well-known picture of Mrs. Wentworth,
that dear lamented saint! the mother
> •
>
of my husband, the grandmother of my child! This is the present She Sent us in her last letter.' Oh, beauti
t
full (hade! what loads of Sorrowful remembrance dost thou pour on my too heavy heart.. But everything convinces me that my husband has inhabited this Spot. Where is he now? Is he on earth, or looking down on my affliction from his heavenly abode?”
Again
 OF friendsflle.
117
Again Hie was finking into her former Ifiipor, and all our care was Scarce Sufficient to call back her fleeting Spirit hovering between the two worlds.
Lord Weftbur)^, who hung over us in Silent amazement Said 'Then my Selina has not yet found a mother! • Flattering but delusive hope led me to think this lady^s name might have been Courtney; what joy Should I have had in making Siich a discovery! what transports would then have been mine " They are your’s, Sir, ’^ Said the housekeeper { with various agitations had been a witness of this Scene) " they are the Same; if my faltering voice will but permit me to disclose what I know, you will be convinced you have not been mistaken!! Hares me in the face, but my conscience will not Suffer me any
lon cer
ill!
.! I
lb
. > : i
!!!t
I
•!'! i I I 1
iiillll;
i: '
4t
LI
I
■h' lisi H '
ili.’ht;
MV; '
’ i ■ 5; 1 : i •
!; i: • : h.; «
iii: :

•; M
ill!!
Ht
u
?n i.
iii

I
itiif 1
'mlo ■bc f
; I ' !|!<‘
iiii ’•11:
il
♦ '
i •
!
'If'ui ‘
I i‘t
lih ^
; ill' : imill ’
ll: * t
II I
.: bi
jsiiii I
utt.u »
ll'!: ' 1!
hb'ji ■
te"; :
i|m
; Sllil;
bi
fiii
m: '; •hit
ii:

i! '

Mb I
JT‘
mu
'I; »
1 I
11 r <
LI i
i i
118
 .
Ion ger to keep those Secrets that have born me down, and almost worn out my life; and now I pray God, and this good lady, to forgive the sins I have been guilty of, and pardon me, If poiiible, for my Iliare in the guilt! I will tell all, give me but time to recover myself from the Ihock and Surprise I have been put into by So unexpected a circumstance. I hope also you will have the goodness to protect me from the resentment of Mr. Dacre, my master, which would be unbounded if he Should know what I am going tore late. My husband and myself had lived half a year in the Service of Colonel Wentworth, when his lady died, and his Son was Sent for to take his leave of her.theold gentleman was determined to break the connexion his Son had • made; and for that purpose Sent my hus -- band to bring away his child.mr.charles
Wentworth
 .
119
Wentworth had never Seen me, and his father ordered me to Say I was just come from Cudalore, and had Seen both his wife and daughter expire before my eyes, in violent fevers. His distraction,, this news went to my Very heart, but I was in a foreign country, and quite in a dependent Hate; for we had failed in our endeavours to get an honest living, and were thus reduced to Serve the purposes of others.”
‘^mr.wentworrh chose to return no more to Cudalore,, and took (hipping for Eiigland as Soon as he was able to take poirefition of the estate which fell to him at his mother’s death, and Which was this very Spot. When he was gone I took charge of the young iady, whom 1 loved as my own child, and brought her with me to England,
when
ID  .
'i
iu
i‘

when Colonel Wentworth returned. Soon after we arrived, he ordered me to carry her to a School he had chosen for her in London; there I lest her bythe name of Selina Courtney. She had on, when fly left Cudalore, a bracelet, which had been given her by
her mother; it was very valuable, and
#
my poor husband was much inclined
to conceal it; but I would not consent
to it, and put it in a Small box along
*
with her clothes, with a paper, signifying it was the remembrance of a lost friend. For, a long time I paid her bills, but was not allowed to See her
— V
left Ihe should tempt me by her entreaties to disclose the secret of her birth; and that old Mr. Wentworth, though he always Said he would provide handsomely for her, never intended (he Should know. In a few years
- *. « c
/
OF .
lai
after we came home my husband died, for ever tormented by the dings of conscience. I continued to live with Colonel Wentworth. He and his Son were for many years on good terms,, ’till lie proposed to him to marry a great lady with a large fortune, ^ whom Mr. Charles Wentworth would never consent to see, and hardly to hear of. This displeased his father beyond ali bounds; he immediately sent to his nephew, Mr. Dacre, made his will
entirely m his favour, and intruded him with the charge of miss Selina, and her fortune of ten thousand pounds, to be paid when die was of age. My old mader then went into France to Spend the remainder of his days. At lad he fell into a gradual decline, and began to relent of his harsh
treatment of his Son; he wrote to him to come over to him, to receive his for vol. III G givenefs,
.1)
hi

t
!tl
I!
IN u: \]

r i
L

'r
LI
I •
L iii.
. r 11 I i

ili
Ihr b I • •
'Llil;

i
%
f
i:

I

t
iteii
fi.
11®
>!!!
ilill
LI
irn
tlm
, II i i
Kill
luilii:
: ti
lib i
ill"
fb: h
'1. 11 f
IH
h I •
i 1
isj!|
'I
Fi
ij'if
iiil'i
It
I!
I '
'll
L t
I!
M
LI
f
'l'
I'
: .i I 1.1;
''di
, 1 't
hi:
* I;
II
• r
M I
h
LI
izl
 OF FRIENOIHIP,
\
'giveness, but we heard nothing' of him; and months and days passed 6h, blithe never came. Mr. Dacre always itook charge of these letters, and in ‘deed I began to fiispedl then that he burnt them allj and that none reached England. At last I got one Sent away without his knowledge; he obeyed the summons, but came too late, for my master was dead and buried, However he had made another will, and left all his fortune to his Son arid miss Selina, with the ten thousand pounds to his nephew. I myself was
V
witness to this will, and know that it was so; but Mr. Dacre proved only the former one, and bribed me to be filent on the subject, saying, when I argued about Miss Selina, that he would do everything right by her; and that Mr. Wentworth had epough of his own. Poor Mr. Charles was
much
 . 12^
much afflicted to find his father dead, arid I thought returned immediately to England, but nobody has ever heard of him since; and what has bc
^
come of him heaven knows. Mr, Dacre Soon took possession of all the riches, and for sometime paid Mist courtney’s board; but at last he told me he had removed her from that fehool, and meant Soon to marry her. I often alked him why he did not do So? but he Said Ihe was too young, and always made some frivolous ex cuses, even for three long years; for nis So long, or more, since Colonel Wentworth died. Last summer I had curiosity to go to the fehool to inquire after her, but the house was inhabited by new people who knew nothing of her. I hope, sir, ftie lives, as you Seem to know her, and that flic is out of the power of her wicked reg
2 lation.*
I
huh
: ihh jc ‘1
• ‘I
IHII
. H
L I
;!! I
'1111
:; L 'h.
"• t:
i I
V, I a. >
•fji ■
'! III
II • t
'T'!
Pin
; : b:
O' i!
f
ifi
LI;
t '
I I

i:
ill
!=>
j
■
!ii!!
• > •

: l: : : •ij: III
'Hi '

il
I • r
fl
L
i!
• I
.1
'll
i!!
ki :
II i
! ■ '
II t
r I
124  tif .
larion.’* “She does indeed live, Said Lord Weftbury, and has met with noble friends and proteiftors.” This
was the first: moment any one had
spoken but the person who related this wonderful story; Orixana exclaimed * ‘ and shall I then See my child again, whom I have sought for over worlds of water i Receive my acknowledg
t
ments, gracious heaven! and if I repine that my bliss is even yet incomplete, pity the frailty of human nature. But go on, good woman, and finish this interesting story, every word of which finks deep into my heart.” ‘‘ I have told you all. Madam, that I can rei

collect,, that Mr. Dacre took polteffion of this place about a year ago. Under what pretext I know not, but there was nobody to inquire into his actions. I have told you enough to ruin myself, for I must quit this
house
i ►
 . 125
house directly; but I have eased a loaded conscience, and care not where I go.’v Mr. Scudamore and Lord Weftbury allured her Ihe Should never want, and hoped when they called for her evidence in a court of justice, Ihe
would not refuse to give it.’' Oh
^ I
no! Sir, I am too glad to make my peace with heaven, if by any means P can do that." On inquiring Ihe told, us Mr. Dacre was at his House in London, where we might find limit
was now agreed that Ihe Should settle the houlhold affairs as soon as possible, and follow us to town, there to confront her wretched master.
If this poor woman's conscience has been so troublesome who has been only an instrument, what mult his be who was the grand mover of the mag
3
chine h
II
5|
!fi >
I
ill!
I
.?
t 1
L!
t l
I
i
; 1
» •
i ■.
I
i
1
♦
■’ I
M i i
i
n
5 :
Hi'!
! -
!|! 'll If
1. > { If
I;
!i
I!
la I I
I (
‘ I
!i; i Hi!
il, r I
illli
II b
f ■
i I
f
; C
; I
‘‘ml
Hi i .111
hill
126  OT .
Our gentlemen have not yet
fixed on any plan to proceed upon.
They mean to consuk connsel in London
, who will put them into the bell
and readiest method of recovering Southeast
lina’s fortune, and punishing this detestable
man.
Our chaises had been ready Some
time before we once recollected that
we had anything to do but to sit and
hear our narrator. When the mind is
closely engaged, we never observe the
lapse of time which glides away in
silence. Orixana left, with
great reluctance, a place where her
husband had spent so many mournful
years, and now Saw the extent of the
treachery that had been made use of to
Separate two faithful hearts, objiinatel^
faithful in all their trials.
On
\
 . i27
On arriving at the carriage we met the Smith who had repaired it. He was one of those rough diamonds, whose charadfer is Sometimes interesting. I alked him if he remembered Mr, Wentworth who had formerly lived there? Yes, Madam, my heart mull grow as hard as this col iron if 1 could forget him. He was my bell friend, and when all the world took against me, he paid my debts and Set me up again, I owe my prefen| good living to his charity and advice, ’^ ‘‘and is not this gentleman charitable too “He! God forgive him, I believes as how he does not know how td Spell the word, I never either eat a bit of his bread, tailed his liquor, or saw the colour of his money since he came. But I begjiour pardon. Madam, for being So free, but you happened to hit the right nail on the head
G 4;
to
LI
>! »
\
't
LI. 1
Ill
»'
■mil
5 > i f
> I •
u
il
fi
i

1!
il
!P
lo
!
i

11
‘•fi»'
fu' I
ill
!!h
iij
< I
i',
I H
) 1! »4 111
li
\

ip
LII
iit
ii
pm
•' I I 1 ii
hi
I:
:
If
II
ill
I
ii'ii
iti’c
5* 11
1 i
I
1
t
LI
LII
!
•: r i’ h ih tj II II
II "1
'! iji
1 T 1
\llr
hth
l?i b
f'♦ > «
;; rr! 11
2 2$  ,
/
to Set me a talking; for when once my tongue has named Mr. Wentworth, it never likes to lie still.” I gave him a crown for his gratitude, and received
his blefiings to protect me on my
•» •
journey.
Lord Wellbury is writing all this
to his friend. Lady Julia, to disclose it
to miss Wentworth in the mofl;
0
tender manner. The mother and daughter must meet as Soon as pos hble; perhaps you will have the goodness to alk Selina to meet us at Wansford, as we are entirely Strangers to her valuable friends.
Mr. scudamore’s eldest brother

meets us in London; your letters will find us at lothian’s Hotel, alber marl street; where we intend to re fide while in town. Adieu. — This
'K
t
t
long
so
 . 129
/
long letter has perhaps tired u both but the interesting nature of its contents mull be my apology.
Once more adieu,
Emily Scudamore
LETTER
Mrs. seymoufi to Mrs. Scudamorf
Wamford.house, Auguji 24.
ELCOME, thrice welcome,, my beloved friend, to your "Dative land, and to your Eliza Your t last letters have beeii so fraught with wonders,, that we have not yet r^overed our Surprise and joy..
G 5 Thab
I nr •
'f
! I

, i‘!
‘ i 1:
T
i I
i I
fljii -
iii'i'i.
II ’
V
!icj’ '
h! 1‘ I; 111!
!il:
if'
jt
I ’
if! i
i: '

! I
't
I'!!
.i
IS
n
•MU i
lit
I if
! i
*
»' ’
ii 111! t. :
n
M
lit <
L ■

I J
lin
it I I i 1 » s I
H
* j
; t
ill! jli 1
i! ‘
Il‘
ito
I
.f!,
ill
130

That your ship, my dear Emily, should be the means of Saving the life of the amiable Wellbury, and that this cireumftance liioiild So fortunately lead tp a discovery so wonderful, seems; almost beyond the bounds of probability;; we inuft with admiration, contemplate thiat unseen hand that leads us Safe through so many, intricate mazes, and brings us at lall tp, peace and Safety.
Your first letter found us plunged in the'deepeft Sorrow. The lovely Selina was with me at Wansford, and the news paper report of Lord west bury’s Ihipwreck had reached us, a few hours before your letter; but as Sorrow is always unpleasant, even in the recollection, 1 will not diftress you and myself by recounting what
agonies my friend endured.


*3^
At the time I received your agreeable account with the conclusion( (
%
I hope) of Mrs. wentworth’s Sorrows, Mr. Seymour was gone to Spend the dav with a friend, Selina and I were alone. She begged me to read my letter; I did. My Surprise and: Sympathy for her sufferings almoll overcame me, and I burst into tears. Selina, who had Scirce recovered the fhpck She had just ’ received immediately concluded Weftbury was again in danger. I Soon recolle(fted myself,
4
and endeavoured to calm her fears, but in vain; unless I would allow her.. to know the contents of my letter, Ihelhould never be convinced he w^aa. well She was afliired, ' she Said, ” I
could have no intelligence that on my own account would give me So much concern; and as I 'had besgre in -- fqrrned her the. letter, was from Mrs.
Scudamore, :
'/
i III
i; i
ml.l
: r..
'»!

1
i:
ii LI
ifi
in: i
ilj
II >
rh

III

m
In'
; !!k
; (
L
Il ^
: h
il
I
in

II
M
lip
LI
Mi!
Hi
Ijflj
lu
f ihj
hel
L
I »
»
h

if
i
Wi
I
1
H

II
liif!
!, ' ill
lli
n; *
lllil
ill
51
i
132
 ?
Studamore, Ihc was convinced that
nothing but weftbury^s illness could
prevent me from Ihewing it to her. I
found it was impossible to postpone
the discovery, which I most earnesdy
willed to do, till Mr. seymour^s return,
as I found myself unequal to the
talk j but her apprehensions were
distressing both to herself and me. I
told her it was the concluiibn of the
I
story of your Indian friend, and that I
would bring her the first part, and
then file should read my letter. 1 had
before promised to Show it to her, but
our anxiety on Lord weftbury’s account
had prevented me. She Seemed
but half Satisfied with this delay; however
I brought the papers, and file
read them with great attention;, and
a iympathizing tear stole Softly down
her lovely cheek, I confess my feel
ings were almost more than I: could;
fupprels 3
VVREATH OF
1 n ^
fuppress; to See her employed ia
\
reading over the woes of her long lost parents, ignorant that they were Suchr and to hear her melancholy regrets for the fate of Orixana, left, like herself, an helpless orphan, and theix again deprived of her husband and her infant, when she might have flattered herself fortune had at last Smiled upoa her, and would have crowned the remainder of her days with peace and tranquillity She stopped when she came to that part where Mr. Wentworth leaves her at Cudalore, and looking at me withthemoft expressive countenance. Said, Oh, my dear Mrs. Seymour, how much do I rejoice that I was enabled to withstand my Lord weftbury’s entreaties to marry him privately.. How many sorrows would poor Orixana have prevented, had she trusted to that kind!
pro.
I
«
1
!i
jiii
i
i!
it
II
il
II

il
i I
LII
H

II
M
n

II
1
II

II
1
iltii
I 1?1!
'Hi
‘ P
till

{<{
w

«!!
Ml
!
ihi
134  .
providence which will one day or .other reward every virtuous action?” ?” proceeded till Ihe came to the bracelet, and Starting oif her Seat Ihe
cried.
CC
gracious powers! I have a
bracelet!” and then recollecting herself, Ihe Said, no! it is impoitible, I never was in India! I am not So fortu
%
nate, I have no kind parent to bless her Selina! But my dear Mrs. Seymour, I didrefs you with my ardent wishes to discover my ever lamented parents.” ‘‘ Would you, my dear Selina, ” ” Said I; ‘‘have willed in Mrs. Wentworth
. P
to have found a mother” Doubt.
. (
my dear Madam, I would! could T read a tale of So much Sorrow and not wish it was in my power to alleviate those Sufferings? But, tell me, has Ihe found her husband and her child “She has heard of both, but not yet Seen them.” Allow me then the
♦ t • ^

 OF. , t
’ 0
\
l^lcasiire. you promised me, of readin
the conclusion.” suppose, my dear Selina, we postpone it till after dinner;
you are tpo much agitated at present
•«
finish Such a tale of wonders.^’"' “You can form no idea of my' feelings at this moment, my dear Mrs. Seymoiir, if you think I could pati
• * •
ently wait So long for the conclusion of;
«
a flory, every \yprd of which seems;; on my heart.” “Then take.
WIT,
my love, but first let me warn you. tp summon all. your fortitude, You.
concerned in the event, than at present you fepm able -
are more

to bear!” * She tui ned pale, and falling on her knees. She said, gracious heaven! I thank thee, if I have at last found a parent!” Her voice faltered, and fly seemed almoo: fainting. I r^ifed her from the ground, and again urg^d her to exert ajl her fortitude, to
fuppor
V
VI
hi;!
ill
ill;
III.
I:; ‘ >; i I
J •
ll‘ I
.....
I n. j >
h b
f I.
Hi: "
, II I
iiii
: t
'll,, i •
II i i
ji!
i!

i
HI
i
II
ili I

.imi
it
■rb*
1!
M
it
i!
: ln
I
ni;
Uf
»;
• I
i >
{ \
Hi
his

1 I
i; I k
I
» I
if
P
1 ‘
O
iilj
'll!
M'
Ml
: b
!1
if
\\
I
u
o'
m
‘ 01

ililh
tn
IH
L
< •
\ '! ‘ 1
ipii
ihi
■it

‘hn
1’! tjl
!i
136
 .
Support her on an event of So much
joy. After taking Some drops, and
walking about the room a little, I had
the pleasure to see the bloom return
again to her cheeks; and a flood of
tears that came to her relief. Seemed
to ease her almost hurling heart. In
about half an hour (he was composed
enough to finish the narrative, which
Goft her many tears. As Soon as She could
Speak, she entreated I would allow her
to go to London, to throw herself at
the feet of her long lost parent. I as
sured her I would with joy have accompanied

her to town; but a little
time was absolutely necefsary to prepare
her mother to See her; and that
I was
very
Sure the moment She was
7
able to bear it, you would attend her
to Wansford.,
Her
  13^
Her apprehensions for the fate of her father seem toengrofs a large Share of her heart. If her dear mother Ihouldftill be doomed to suffer, how severely would Ihe feel. But the same kind arm which has protested them through so many dangers, will not now forsake them.
I have been so intereded in my selina’s sufferings, and have Ihared so sincerely in her joy, that I have not time to describe the delight I feel in the profpefl of embracing you so soon at Wansford. Do not dela^ a moment longer than is necelfary! confi der the impatience of my young friend is not to be restrained.
Tell Mr. Scudamore lhave follow
edhis advice, and chosen k prote£lor
whom
f 1
i
ilmi

4kli
: H 1
fl
ifil i
If
IN
I,
\\,


i I n
f I
1
i. w il
iil
U
m
^^4
t
I
}-•
., ?is t
[ )i r
1
il
L
».
'■ ’ i
•!!!
'1' sr
II
*■1
Ui

il
lii!
ri
Hi
i
H
K f f

I
L
138  CP .
whom I Shall have a pleasure in introducing
to his . Selina
has attempted to write to her mother,
but her Spirits are at present too much
fluttered for her to proceed. Say everything
that is kind and dutiful for her
and Jiappy is the parent who can boast
of such a child.
youcs, dear Emily,
Eliza Seymour,
LETTER

] t
 . i39
LETTER lxxlv.
Mrs. Scudamore, to Mrs. Seymour.
lothians Hotef Auguji 24.
W

E arrived in town two days ago; but I have never been been able to take up my pen to you till tonight. I have already Seen many of my old friends, who really exprejjed great Satisfaction at my return. I was pleased with the compliment, and do hot choose to question its sincerity;; I will not fill my paper with uninteresting matter, but proceed ( as you would wish me) to subjects of more importance. '
Mrs,
i |: 5! I
i '■ :
T, ■ • -
'ii:
■*: ^ i
}i'‘
j.
: h I i
; ih!.
t; i 1;
i!
'iiii
I '
I ^ I
lih
iu
LII
1
h: I
il
1
f5ij « r !l f 1
LI ' :
id!!
^'
II ■
hi!!
fsi
Ijtl
ils
'ii
II
I
I n io i; m I
: ii
fl
!ihi ibi
liii
he
11 Ii •
L i
III,
i. *
f \ ■

III

II

Iti
iitt'iii
I
ipi
h'li 5
II '!' ‘
biiis
C I
iiiitii:
ill;
c'!b
.DA
. \
iibfl.
; ‘T|1
gi;
lli
■ L..
■: ‘ih iiit
"tt
'UK I

■■.V
140  .
Mrs. Wilson, Mr. dacre’s housekeeper, came to us yesterday. Mr.

Scudamore and Lord Weftbury had already taken the advice of counsel, in what manner it was best to proceed, to recover the estate for Mrs. Wentworth. The law people, you may be sure, advised vigorous measures, in which they themselves were interested; but our two peaceable thought it right to try fair means, and to let Mr. Dacre certainly know what they meant to do, Should he prove refractory. They waited upon him therefore this morning, at his elegant
I
house in Portland place. He was Surrounded with a levee of gay young men. Mr, Scudamore told him his bufiness was of a very particular nature, and desired to Speak with him
m private
He Seemed struck with
the request, but attended ' them to
his
I i
 . II
his library, and thqre desired to know the purport of their bufinels. It was to inquire by what rightdie enjoyed
Mr. wentworth’s estates??
(( >
a
very singular question, Sir, but Soon answered, by his last, will.” Then Mr. Wentworth is dead? Yes, Sir.”
“Where and when did he die ?” He
$
appeared rather at a loss, but recollecting himself he said“ “France,
Sir, about two years ago.” am really
«
fmcerely concerned at this information, because his widow is arrived from India; and has, by a singular providence found a daughter She has long been deprived of, and by this distribution of his property they are both destitute.” I never heard of either of the ladies before; his possible they may not be impostors, but most probably they are. Whatever they are they cannot dispute a right so firmly
fixed


H



142  .
fixed as mine.” “You also possess, I am told. Sir, all Colonel went worth great property by a will?” “I do Sir.” “But does not that will make a provision of ten thousand pounds to a miss Courtney V It does.” At the mention of miss Courtney his confusion visiblv increased, but he told them Ilie had been dead same time; and fuppoling She was not, had no means of proving heifelf the person intended. Did you ever hear of Iiich a wretch? I have hardly patience to relate to you this conversation; and am only sorry to think that there exills in the world any one so worthless.
I i
scudamore’s' next question was “if he knew Mrs. wilson, formerly the housekeeper of Colonel Wentworth?” ** I do. Sir, what of her? and why am
I
 of friehhship. 143
1 catechized in this strange manner?’* Tis, because Mrs. wilson is acquainted with Some family concerns in which you, Sir, have born a principal part; and which have, by a very extraordinary circumstance, only just come to light. As I never doubt a gentleman’s honour till I have proved it false, So I trust you will have no objection to be confronted with her on these subject” ” ‘‘ I Shall, I know her to be a wretched mercenary woman, who will say, or do, anything for money; and I do no choose to put
You
are
iiiyfelf in her power.” already So, Sir; Ihe was, unfortunately for you, a witness to the very last will of Colonel Wentworth, and can prove that his effects were very differently dispofed of.” ^‘prove what you please, Sir, I Shall Hand the teftj nor will I be affrighted out of a property I enjoy
from
11
\

M j
Oi

V
I

144  OF rrienuship.
/ ^

from indubitable right.’’ The gentlemen endeavoured to reason with him
r
I
on the Subject,, to convince him,
'that as all was now known, So he had
#
better without further trouble resin(
(
what in justice he could not detain; and that they could aniwer for the generosity of the ladies, who would not expect him to refund income he had. already received. They reasoned with the winds, and were under the disagrepable necessity of making use of the authority granted them by a magillrate; ahd of leaving, him under the care qf a civh gentle
’ man, who carried hi power in his
\
pocket. They permitted him to continue in his own house; a favour he very Sullenly accepted.
From Poitland Place they went to dodor’s Commons, takins; Mrs. Wilson,

(,
 OF FRIENDSHST. 145
Son, to examine the wills; who po
%
Swore that the Signature to Mr. Charles wentworth’s was not his own writing. This gives us hope
/
that he may Hill live; and as fortune
has been So very bountiful lately in
}
her discoveries, that we Cannot help being Sanguine. She also Says Colonel wentworth’s will is that which he
4
made before he went abroad.
Steps
are now taking to oblige Mr. Dacre
t
to be just; could we aiso oblige him to Say, where Mr. Wentworth is to be found, we Should be still more at ease. Poor Mrs. Wentworth begs not to be informed of the result of their proceedings, till Something final is determined; as her Spirits are too weak to Support the anxiety the knowledge of them would occasion.
Vol. III
H
Her
\
11
146  .
Her impatience to see her daughter makes her quite ill, tho’ on our account ( Who Ihe knows have businefs that will detain us Some time without the addition of her’s, tho’ equally in terelling to us) Ihe endeavours to hide it. For this reason I determine to be with you in a few days, leaving Lionel to follow at his leisure, who I know cannot leave London this fortnight; and. that would be another eternity of separation from you, for whom I am the more anxious as.i draw nearer to you. Neither could I think of depriving my friend for So
long a time of that exquisite pleasure
%
ihe.expects, in beholding her long loll daughter, who is represented as so very amiable; long may they enjoy the felicity which appears to be in flore for them.
Lord
¥
1
 OF rrtendshle. l
• r
/
Lord Weftbury leaves us tomorrow. He will be with his father the Same night, and with you the next day. He may be truly said to Hy upon the wings of love, for itpoflefses every feeling of his Soul. He will ex? plain to you all these intricate affairs, which I relate So ill; .Dot you mull remember I was not bred to the law and make allowances also for my head
t
which is not at present very clear. •
V
• Mr. scudamore’s brother met us here, and while our two gentlemen were Studying law, was my corn panion, < and obligingly accompanied us to Shops, c. where we have been attempting to alter our dress to the present taste; that you may not look upon us as Goths when we make our
•appearance at Wansford.
H 2 isttefday
r'
i
• I
LI
I
o.
1!!
■1 it
Mil
LI
‘
LI **! i
i /
l
!1
148  or friendshir.
V ^
Ituefday Mormng*
I have this moment received your kind letter, and have only time to add to this, that I hope very Soon to embrace you and Selina, and why not your excellent husband?? I come prepared to admire and esteem Lord Wellbury has just driven off. Scudamore and Orixana add every kind and good wifti to the Wansford Society
Ever your’s.
E. S,
LETTER
LI
V I
II
\
 . 149
LETTER LXXV
!
yix^%l(pentw<3rthi to Lady jidtaharcourt
pvanrfttrd.iiouji, Auguji 27, OW will the Sympathising heart oi my Julia, participate in the
many years
of doubt and anxiety, I have at last found a /' My heart overflows with gratitude even at mentioning a name So tender, So endearing. How true were my conjectures, that the fate of my parents must have been unhappy ^ miserably wretched, indeed, must my poor mother have passed her prime, banished from all her Soul held
%
dear, and turned out a wandering fugitive. But I s^ak to you my Julia,
H 3 of

150  .
r
t
of mysteries. Mrs. scudamore’s narrative, which will accompany this letter, will explain to you much better ■ than I can do, the whole (lory. I have been endeavouring, Since the first moment I heard it, to give you Some idea of the inexpressible pleasure I found in discovering who were my real parents; but hitherto my endeavours have been fruitless. Mrs. seymour’s whole time has been Spent in adls of kindness to me, and attempts to calm my per
This
morning
I
curbed Spirits.
A •
.thought myself tolerably composed; •but Since I Sat down to write I find So
t
many new ideas rupii continually upon .my mind, that I am afraid I Shall ex press myself quite in an incoherent, Style.
At this time,, how much do I wifii or the council and Support of my beloved
t s
Hli
 . i51
loved Lady St. Clair? She has indeed been a parent to me; her presence would inspire me with fortitude. 1 make every effort in my power to acquire Sufficient courage and resolution; but we are every moment in expectation
of the arrival of our friends, and
« %
the least noise destroys the labour of

hours.
Julia
blame my agitation, when you con fider my Situation. I have not the least trace of my mother in my recol leffion. I have been educated in a different Style, in a dirtant climate from her. She may have formed a thousand ideas of her child, which in
9
all probability I Iliall not answer. But hence, Such unpleasant refledlions! I will do all I can to make her life comfortable, and we must leave the rest to that power who in so miraculous a manner brought us to the knowledge
H 4
of
/
152  .
of each other. I can. Scarce mcntiou ihe name of Scudamore, without int

yoking a blessing on it. How, in every instance, has that charming woman acted as my guardian angel, by
preserving those from destruction, in y hose fate 1 am moil interested.
I can readily believe how great your dillress was on Weftbury's account; but I hope in this as well as in many other cafes, good will result from evilj as I think it was in Some degree the means of Softening your heart towards poor Drummond, who, notwithstanding
appearances may have been
« ^
him, is, I am convinced, en
I
tirely worthy of you. I hope in your next you will tell me, that eveiy thing
. f
is fettled between youyou

i ui'
i
 OF FRIINDSHIP. 153
You were a little too abrupt in the conclusion of your lall epistle;; though it was very much in your ozatt style, it did not Satisfy the curiosity of your friends. Mrs. Seymour has jud; had a letter from London; Ihe tells me our friends will not be here today as we expected, on account of Some business which detains Mrs. Scudamore in town. How inconlillent is, >
human nature? Though before I Was fluttered and alarmed at the thoughts of their coming, I am now mortified beyond expression at this delay; but by way of consolation, she says, Lord Weftbury will be here this evening. You, my friend, know my heart so well, that you will easily suppose that: piece of intelligence must give me sensible delight. I believe it is as well he should come first; he will be able to. answer Some of the thousand questions
H 5


j54  .
tlons I have to ask about my mother. But I find the thoughts of his coming
I
have So entirely deranged all my ideas,
that I must for the present lay down
> *
tny pen.

Adieu, my Julia, I Scarce know by what name to call rayfelf; but depend upon it, however fate Shall dis pofe of me in this world, I shall ever
remain, yobr truly affectionate and
* * \
sincere friend,
Selina.
]>
LETTER
. \
 . i55
LETTER LXXVI
Lord hvejihury, o Henry l>rummgnd^{<\..
Wansford house, ■ Auguji a8..
OU, my dear Drummond, who, are So really and So honourably in love, will easily imagine the transports I felt at the sight of my Selina. After an absence so painfuly Ihe received me with, tears of joy. above. the little arts and affedations of her sex, Ihe was not afraid to owni to me; how much. pleasure my return gave her; and to acknowledge how severely file suffered at the time when I was; supposed to have found a watery grave.. Sad alternative, to the gentle bosom, which now offers me reposci I arrived here ( as you would imagine from the hour in which. I parted from you) not. till very late; but at this house there are no difficulties, and the exoedation of' a friend drove Sleep and lassitude far
t
I am delighted with Mr.. Sey
W
nipur^,
I!
I
11 ■ ill
u t
n \
IS
1, %
, *
im
: t ’
),
II
ill
I!
'Ill 1.
: j V
It
11!
Ill
ti
III
f •
II
T
ili

Ml
I
lb

d:
11
I
hi
x56
 .
^ broad daylight ere
mour, whole reception of me was kind
and flattering; and his lady is all be
%
Every one had So much to afkj'^d I So much to communicate,
we retired to rest; and his now, I am ashamed to say, almost one and we are only just risen from breakfast. I have been writing to my father, and'while the pen is still in my hand, dedicate a few moments to you. Be very grateful for this favour, for I steal the moments given to you from the Society of her I love best. She is now in the garden with Mrs.seymour, in a state of the most anxious foli ciaadoi This very evening.mrs. Scudamore and Mrs. Wentworth are expected;; our endeavours are neces fary to Support my Selina on this awful, but wiflied for occasion. I will close my letter till tomorrow morning.
'/
-
ih
I"
U!

.s
 .
f
that I may give you Some account of their meeting.,
In the midst of all
t Night.
njoyments
I lament that you, my dear Drummond, and our Sympathising friends at the Abbey, cannot be witneltes of the happiness which has been bellowed on the party at Wansford. I cannot say, pure as it is, that there is no alloy, for where on earth can it be found quite perfeifl? Mr. Wentworth is Hill wanting to fill up the measure of our bliss; the cloud that hangs over his fate is Hill dark and obscure; and I fear that time, which discovers so many wonders, wdil fail to enlighten this fide of our profpe6l.
The mother and the daughter have met! Heavens! what a meeting! and
how

1 c8  .

how unequal is my pen to a description of it! But I know Lady Julia will not forgive me if I pass over in lilehce a circumstance So interesting, and which her lovely friend is too much an a61: or into be a narrator. / wilhtherefore
t
attempt the talk, premising, that her fair Ladyship mull take the will for the deed! and not expert a finished picture from a trembling hand.
At dinner I observed that Selina had dressed herself with more than common care, but simple and unadorned; except, that on her arm Ihe wore that bracelet, the present of a parent wdiom Ihe longed, yet half feared, to. meet. So diffident is Ihe of her own perfedions, that her anxiety, lead; Ilie Should in her manners or appearance disappoint her fond expecting iijpther, have been painful, to herfelfj
and
.(
kl


arid even to her friends, V ho can have
no doubts on this Subject.
Dinner over, the day began to wear
fall away. As the hour of expectation
approached, Selina grew Hill more
anxious. reftless, and forever at the;
window, her eye Ilretching to its ut
moil extent, and Hill bringing her
heart no intelligence, I proposed that
we Should walk down the avenue;
perhaps we might meet them. She
Seized with avidity my proposal, and
we walked sometimes with a quick.
sometimes a slow Hep, till we reached
the lodge. My tongue, prompted by
my heart, forever recurs to that fond
subject her presence always inspires,
but for once it wasirkfome. cease,
Weflbury, ” Said the dear girl.
((
today,
I cannot listen to tales of love!
duty and reverence take foie poffehioii;
of

ifii
i
it!
: mi I
iili
iu i I
‘i
t'
'
! f
1
»' ii
f
i 1
I:
i i;
uli
Hi
; it

I

i
1!; t
hi
1
!
u

ile
W(
r
x6o ' OF
of my mind; that once more fettled, * we will plan fcheides of future happiness, and forget all our pad mis fortunes. But wdiere does my fancy ramble? Wc will not forget, but remember them to make us humble, and to remind us that we are mortal, and stili liable to error and to Sorrow
IS.

Arrived at the highroad, we heard no sound of carriages; and returning a few paces back “No, ^’ .Lid Selina, “we will proceed; my mother will be pieafed with my impatience, but (he can never know to what an excels it
4
At lait the sound of wheels struck our ears; it was at a distance, but certain. Selina could hardly (land. Supported awhile by my arm She recovered her resolution; the carriage cameinlighti Mrs. Scudamore saw us from the front window, and had
op ened
1 •
 OF FRIENDSHIB
ll
opened the door of the coach by the time it came up with us.
y
Mrs. Wentworth gave ^ Scream of joy; in a moment her daughter was. in her arms; but they could neither Support themselves or each other; and would have Sunk to the ground, had not we, the spe<5tators of tliia moving Scene, afsiiled. It was Some minutes before either found their Speech. At last, Mrs. Wentworth, in faltering accents Said, “Yes, thou art my own Selina! d ear image of the bell of men„ thou neededft not that pledge of love on thy arm to convince me of my hap piness! Every feature is thy fathers, softened by graces truly feminine. Oh! my Lord, I thought your picture had been too flattering? but it hardly comes up to the original, strongly as you colour!” Selina was much
agitated.
II
; '
I < I
I r
: : \
L ii
lii >
., 11. !i I
. I i; I t
M ■ I
, 1 I
•bc
li 'i
LII '
iii

I
ii.
. > ‘ II
\
I i
1
II I
I
i
I
I
162  .
agitated.
The ladies returned into the coach, and I followed the happy party on foot. We had again another joyful meeting to witness between the two friends, and many tears were Hied in their fond embrace. Mr. Scudamore was prevented by buiiness attending the ladies, but is to follow them in a few days.
Farewell, my dear Henry; tomorrow I hope to fix a time for my approaching happiness. When Shall I congratulate you on a fi milar event? My best love to Lady Julia, tell her how I long to call her by your name, and to thank her for bestowing felicity
on my friend.
ivefthury.
LETTER
OF
163
LETTER LXXVII
Lady juuahar court, to yii(%fvent worth
OW
Livlngfion abbeyy Auguji 31,
my beloved friend, in thinking that your Julia would Sympathise with you in all your cares and anxieties. You cannot be Sensible of a pain, but I find equal uneasiness; and not one chord of your heart is attuned to joy which does not convey the mod lively pleasure to my own. How thankful am I that your first interview with your mother is over! You will, now, I hope, be more calm and composed than you pofiibly could be before you
bad Seen her. Lord vveftbury*s let
If!!
'u' :
i: i;
‘ t
III
; i ’
■ • I
■ r ■
(i!; 'It
■ J
': :
t:.
i i I 11 '. I
i) :
; » I
o i
ij;
'> I
1 i
''. 11 • 1
'■' t
I :
n
} I
! •
i'
I:
iiii
I'; ■
i;!
Hi'
k:
'M;
liij
!|!
L
Ii‘ I
'I
: !!il
lilt
, ' C I
CI
i i
■mc
i I
liii

t I
1n
II
i k I
it
ih
lilii!
'Im; • •■I 1
Il 11 >
’i!! • '
'I
•V r f
‘ I *.
L
I!
it
5
I '
164  OF FRIENDSHIF.
ter relieved us from a world of anxiety
on your account
It was indeed a
trying occasion for your fortitude; to meet with a parent who had undergone Such a variety of adverse fortune. But how thankful must her heart be to that power, who has preserved her child; and who, after being snatched firom her in the moll cruel manner by a merciless tyrant, is restored to her again in all the loveliness of youth and virtue; free from the vices and corruptions of a frail world, to which Ihe was exposed a helpless innocent, without one kind hand to guide her inexperienced steps
I
My father desires me to tell you, though you have found other parents,
you Hill remain his child; and that he
/
cannot consent on any account that Lord Weftbury Shall receive you from
any
II
I!:
 OT . l6
h
any hand but his; on which coniider ation, as the marriage ad is the parent of delay, he wishes the whole party from Wansford to repair tolivingdon abbey immediately. You know, Selina, my Lord St. Clair loves to have everything done in his own way, and I believe in this cafe does not expect to meet with any contradiction.
I must confess I am particularly
/ ♦
anxious for your arrilral. I have wilbed for your Society very much lately, and am extremely desirous of being introduced to Mrs. Wentworth, Our party wi!h not be half comi>lete without the Seymours and Scudamores accompany you; but I shall write to Eliza on the subject.
You would; be choir
if
yousaw ]tiom peaceably we pafs our
time
!
I'
r \
ir
t
LI
!i
i!
I;
; i
H!
!i
r • I •
i66
 OF FRIENDSHIF.
time here; you never met with two people more transformed than Drummond and myself; we make love in as quiet, calm, and composed a way, as any pair of turtle doves in the country.. The name of mademoiselie de Sanzey never escapes our lips; and we Scarce know wfiat a quarrel is. As men are always encroaching, he has lately been very importunate with me to hasten his happiness, as he cam ic; but you know, Selina, that remains to be proved; and may turn out very different from what he eji; pes. But, howtver, I have to far relented, as to promise to give him my hand on the day you bestow ycur’s on Weftbury; which, I think, may be of Some Service to us both, as we may take you for an example, which may be much wanted by two Such giddy brain's as our’s. I
T
am very doubtful what kind of figure
.we
I
 UF . 167
wefhall make in the great world; we must do as well as we can, leave the red to time and chance.
but
and
Sir Henry and Lady .Drummond are expected very Soon at Lord mord ington’s; the gentlemen, to talk about Settlements, and the ladies about dress, I suppose, and Such ridiculous things; but I am resolved for my share, not to give myself the lead concern about them, they may all take their own way.
We had a visit yederday from Sir Horace Wynn, I believe he enjoys my confusion more than any earthly thinrr. Tho’ there was more com paiiy in the room, he could not refrain complimenting H. D. as he calls him, on the imorovemenc in his foirirs,
A '
is a very happy tiling Said he, ‘‘that
liule
I
I
! i .:
LI t
f
I
» i
ti
! i
III
I i
i6g
 .
little mischievous dog Cupid chose to send Some of his Ihafts in another, di redion, and let the lady feel the smart a little; it Seems to have made a very agreeable change in the face of things here. H. D. is no more the Sighing disconsolate swain he was, but the happy contented lover. But do not blush, my good Lady Julia, you arc quite right, depend upon it;
“youth’s the season made for joy, Love is then a duty.”
“Do not be afraid Ilie will hurt her
^
i^ord Mordington, who^.was Seated, very Surly, in a corner of the room, *'* it is a fare qualification now to be met with in a lady of quality; the modern system of education has totally exploded it; there is Scarce one .of them that has grace enough left to
blush for a Sauk when she has committed
Self with blushing. Sir Horace,
!i
t

mitted k.” Oh, my Lord, ” said Sir Horace, a lady of quality cannot commit a fault; they are all delicacy

and perfection.” “Hum!” said Lord Mordington, ^hf those are your Sentiments, we differ widely, for I think they are never out of one.” As his Lordihip did not seem in harmony to be trifled with. Sir Horace very wisely did not attempt to answer him.
I am afraid from this Specimen yoia will not think Lord Mordington improved in his temper. To say the tmth, he has been a little inclined tqi relapse lately. You know it was im* poflible'he ‘fhould become quite good all at once; but I have hopej when he sees his fon so happy, it will have a good effect upon him. That we may all have that Iktisfadtion Soon; is the earnest wish of your
Vol. Ill, J ^ulia harcqoru
Ii;
V t ■, ‘; »


ijlc
M‘||
, il 1 ‘I M
il!
: 1 id
'j
. • I
»'
! 1
I ill
M • '
i!;; L
(1.
» ' :
!• : If I
!( '
i 1
1.
II
!f
if
j
II
%
ill
'i
nf
in
itj
iu
‘i ■
i’t
. I I
!i I
II
LI ') •
iii
;
III
J
: • I
; I
ill
III
II
III
I
i
II
!b
ill
K!:
!:

1!
» I
II
LI
I r •
; 5 I
'. t I

I
I
lit
lit
iii

M
II
f
I
lyo,  ,
LETTER LXXVIII
jifn)y Drummond., esq. to the Rev.
Edward Seymour.
ftejlhury lodge, September 5.
UR friends have arrived without
JP
you; yet I stili have hope, you will not refuse, my dear Seymour, to
/
come and complete the happihessof your friends. You are never deaf to the call of , hasten then, with
your dear partner, to this house of
\
joy; where you will see every face dressed in Smiles, and even Lord Mordington in good-humour. What can I say more to tempt you? Even this 1 think will be unnecelfary, for I know the proneness of your disposition to confer all the happiness within your power. The sixteenth is the day fixed upon; Wellbury and I have petitioned hard for an earlier day, but our old Lords, and my father assure us,
that
 .
that the writings cannot be finished
/
that everything mull be done in order. How dull and tedious are these law people; and how unlike lovers must they feel, to whom a day that Hands between them and happiness is an eternity.
My father and mother arrived three days ago; they met Lord and Lady St. Clair the next, morning, to settle
preliminaries. My Julia and I, perfectly
indifferent about any settlement hut that of the heart, Hole out and left
them to please themselves. On our return ( the conference not having broken up) Lord St. Clair alked u where we intended to live? “for I declare, young' folks, I will have nothing

to do with you


Nor
I, ” Said my father. 1 turjaed to Lady Julia, tis a subject I believe
I 2
we

I '
'I •
r:
II !•
V
! i
t 1
■ 1
11
M'
in ’

LII
!!
1 I
« I
I
172  .
we have neither of us thought upon. As for myself
“Place me where never Summer breeze
4
Unbinds the glebe or fans the trees.
** Where ever lowering clouds appear And angry Jove deforms th’inclement year.
** Place me beneath the burning ray Where rolls the rapid car of day,
L ove and the nymph Shall charm my
toils
The nymph who Sweetly Speaks, and
Sweetly Smiles.
f9
‘‘very prettily applied, Harry, said my father, “but I wilh you to choose Some more temperate climate; what think you of my estate in Here fordihire? whilst you remain lovers
it will be a pleasant retreat.’* “And if you wish to join the great world, ” said Lord St. Clair, “my house in St. janxes’s square is much at your Service.

eli
I
WRBATH OF . I
vice. When Julia is disposed of I have no longer any use for it. My Joan and I can perhaps find entertain inent enough at Livingston; and when we grow dull we will visit the young folks.” I looked at my fair arbitress for her determination, “I admire he rcfordlhire, ” Said she, of all things, and as to the house in town we will go there when we are tired of each other’s
Society.

Thus was the knotty point
fettled at once; and we Shall be happy to Iliew you the Herefordlliire Lions any time three months hence. We are to Spend one month after our marriage here; another at Dfummond place; and a third with Weftbury and his Selina, who settle at thelodge; and lord Mordington Spends the winter at Bath.
I 3
Whit
i!
1 ’
I
M
i
f
II i
M
I i
t :
L
• i
!
i
i I
- i
it
f i
4
i •
r *
LI
\ 1
»;
I i
i ’
t »
k.
. I
i!
• 1
!
*; t;
. i i 1
i \ ‘ t i i
f ’
Ei;
: C
* j!;
i,
![!
174  OF friindshif.
What shall I tell you more of our affairs? only, that Mr. Scudamore and Weftbury have had letters from town, which say Mr. Dacre will come to no terms, and in consequence of that a Bill in Chancery is immediately
V
to be filed. At present we do not let anything so tiresome employ om thoughts, and the lawyers do just as they please; while we go hand iri hand with the sports, the loves, and
the graces, and every hour gives some
\
proofs of merit and affection. We live but to love! Come directly, and witness our felicity.
H. P.
IS
.
letl'lr
I r
'i I
lii.

It
it;
5
II i
 . I 75
LETTER LXXIX
kqy.kseymmtr, to Lady juliaharcourt,
jvmsford hmfey September 7., you admit an intruder
into your presence, my ever amiable Lady Julia? I have much to hope from the goodness of your disposition, and yet I feel unwilling ta rilk your displeasure I
am
sober parfo
fore ought not to accused of flattery;
and yet were I only in plain unembel lilhed language to tell you how very much I admire your understanding and your lovely person, I fear I fhouid not escape censure., But to prove, much as I admire your beauty and wit, I think your sweet temper exceeds them both, I am going to put it to a strong trial.
14
Y our
1!; .-
t i
• > 1 I « I
I ■
II i
4 4
Hi
LII
Si :
II ^
: h
111
II?
: r
If,
I;
!:) ■
11. I j
LI
i!
i! i
[ii
ih
f!. Mi
i
fil
I
O I •
'0
1.
o.
[N
1 ’ ■ •
j * i
{
(■'
. t, I (
10
H •


il'
1 •
hi
111
'1! ■ ■
'Uv!
** j • :
lib:;
ill;!
■
I
‘■5 t.
•tuf i
bb];
A u il i H
ii'ii; •
bi'
iiii i
ili i tei
I hol
I! I
ili
b
t;
176  OF FR IINDSHLT.
Your Eliza, you kno7vy is my wife; and without her I know by experience, every hour would be dark, and each gay Scene be turned into melancholy. Will you then forgive me, when I Say, I cannot accept of Lord St. clair’s obliging invitation; nor can I have the Supreme felicity of bellowing your ladylhip^s fair hand on my friend, Believe me the mortification falls heaviest on myself, as the first: pleasure this world can now give me, is making my Eliza happy; and I am fensible how much fiie would have rejoiced in once mcmre embracing her dear Lady Julia Harcourt. But I am Sure you will cxcufeme, when you know thecaufe. Mr. Watson has had a letter, with an account that his father was on his deathbed; he and his wife fet off immediately to see him. The distance is above two hundred miles, therefore I
do
bi
ti L f M.
; [
  17, 7
do not expert them back under a; month, and’ long before that time you will, have made Drummond as happy as my  could wish; him to be., I have undertaken the care: of the parish in hisabsence, and also of two young gentlemen who are placed with Mr. watson, and whose friends he was afraid of offending, by leaving them without their conlent. As, I had no, -^ thing to prevent me at that time, I readily promised to assist the young gentlemen in pursuing their studies; and at the same time Eliza promised Mrs. watson her little ones should find no want of a mother in her absence. these weighty charges have not been left to Qur care above, a.week L am Sure your Ladyship will agree.witte me, it. is cowardly to desert. our posts, parr ticularly as: they were., of our own. choofins:.

r 5s



I have taken Some pains to convince you, my dear Lady Julia, that we,. LOU not, with, propriety, at present. leave Wansford; but like an experienced lawyer, I have pleaded on both Sides the question, and have endea? voured to persuade your friend to atr tend you at Livingftoii'abbey.. Whether eloquence mull flow entirely from the heart tq beat all times successful I cannot now determine, but I' am sure mine was all exerted in vain;
JH
and what is very uncommon, I in my o\yn defeat..
I promised Eliza I would do all in?
my power to plead for pardon front; you; this one argument more I will; use, that every Sentence contained in this paper comes from the heart of your. ladylhip’s moll devoted
Et Seyrnour, -.
 OF ERIENDSHIP
179
leatteit LXXX
Lady jfuamarcouni to Mrs. Seymour.
f * ‘
Livingtion~abbeyy. September i o*
AM now well convinced, that no Situation in this life is exempt from mortification, or I Should not.at » this time," when : every, other happiness Smiles around, have been deprived of. the Society of my beloved Eliza; and ■ what is ft] 11 more diflreflin g, y our reason for refusing our request is so vci y
commendable, that I cannot even have, the fatisfadion oirepfimanding jou for it. Tell Mr. Seymour, I think myself' much obliged to. him for his polite, letter, which I ftiu have the ■ grace. to thank him for; : notwithstanding the contents were/o little consonant to my.
You willjeafiiy believe hbw much joy the arrival of our friends has. caused
in

in this habitation. How much was I
ftftbnifhed in the appearance of Mrs.. Wentworth?. Although you had men (ioned her to me in terms highly favourable; yet Sown. from the peculi trity of her birth and edtication, Idid not expeto find her so elegant and JK: compliihed as in reality Ihe is. Mrs.. Scudamore is an excellent little,, wo man, Ihe Seems so happy, so contented and appears to enjoy herself so mucte in the idea iof being once more in her. native country,. that it is a treat to me to pafs my time with her. Drummonds and Ihe are very great friends,;, he has, jtift called to drive, her out in his phaeton.. She was last night expressing her admiration of the English pea fkntry; after being ' used to the oppression of the Eafi, fly Said it was a cor -- dial to hen Spirits toi see them. Drum -- mpnd faidjtfflie had so much plea?
furt: -
\
fiire in feeing the English peasants ia; general, he would, i agreeable to her; introduce her to a. race o happy morr tals, who liad’the honour, of claiming
Lady St, Clair as their benefadress;;
✓ >
die sight of whom he was Sure, wmuldi delight her. beyond exprefifion. Shet readily accepted of his proposal; it hadi long been. scudamore’s wilh and her’s; to eftablilh a Set of happy people abour them, and She now hoped if Ihe took. Lady St,. Clair for her model. She;
fiiould be able to put her plan in
execution.. They are. now, gone upon a round of visits in the neighbourr hood, frorn. which I am Sure She, will return, much pleased with my mother’s management.,
Lord Mordington has behaved upon
this occasion better than we could
a
sdmoftlave hoped. Mr. Prummond


I i
1*8'2  .
tiiought it necessary to acquaint him with the whole of Mrs,. wentworth’s story, before She came, and therefore took an opportunity to do so when he was Supping with us a few evenings before.. He did not relish it at all; he could scarcely conceal his Sentiments feyeral; times; at last,, it was quite finished“ “am extremely Sorry, for what you’tell me, Henry, ” Said he,, ‘‘ I do not care who her parents had been, had they only been lionefl; and' English; butl have a national prejudice againll foreigners. I cannot endure the thought of my son’s marrying any. but an English woman, tho’ Ihe was
descended from an Indian princess. It hurt my feelings extremely, even the thoughts of your bringing a French
woman into

IS much
worse; and then her own grand ijiqfbcr having burnt herself ^ is
 I's
§)mething So shocking and pagan im the idea, I cannot bear it. No, no, I believe the best way will be to break,, off the connexion, at once, and let us. hear no more of it.” ‘ ‘ Hold there, my Lord,, ” Said, my father, ‘^you mute give me leave to interfere in that points.
word
Weftbury
WIGHT
to retract a promise made to. Since then, their union is in -- evitable, let me entreat you not to. break in upon your son’s happiness by; any reflection uponselina or her friends. She is a charming girl, and I will answer for it will make him happier than, any other woman tho’ you had fought round the world for a wife for him.”

‘‘ There now, my Lord, Sti Clair, said Lord Mordington^ “you are always so passionate, So, violently paf
fionat®
'N
 .
fionate and hasty, there is no dealing with you; let them marry, with all nay heart, and make the bell of itbut k is very hard I cannot Speak my own. Sentiments of it to a neighbour, without being Snapped up in. that manner. But I fancy you are afraid, for the,, peace of your child, as you call her;, and to tell you the truth, my Lord, I have had my fuspicions that She was your childm a more literal lensc than; you willed to acknowledge her; but i find I am mistaken, as many wiser; men than myself have, been,
yy
______ \
From this .prelude we had: no' great
reason to think he would acquit himself
well when Mrs,, Wentworth earner
but however he came to dinner yesterday
with Sir Henry and Lady
Prummond, and behaved with great
^qlitenefs.and attention to Mrs, Wentworth.;
;
 , 185
worth; talked to her of the connexion that was likely to take place between lordweftbury and her daughter; Said he intended to give up Welfbury lodge to them, and requelled we would all dine with him the next day, that they might determine if any alterations were necessary to be made. I was absolutely allonilhed, and believe I should Scarcely have given credit to my fenses, had I not been well convinced it was Lady drummond^s influence over him that had wrought this wonderful change. She isaverysenfible woman, and the only person breathing that can in the lead control Lord mordington’s impetuous Spirit. He acknowledged to me in the course of the
4 *
day, that he thought there wasfome thing particularly pleasing and interesting in Mrs. wentworth’s person and maniiers; he was Sorry Ihe had Suffered So
much

l86
*
much, but it was no wonder, for there was not So black a crime on the face
ft
of the earth as disobedience. I have suffered this noble Lord and his concerns to occupy my pen so long, that 1 had almost forgotten a promise I made Selina, of apologising to you for her not writing today. I went into her dressing room just before I sat down to write I if ypu are not particularly engaged, there is a Ih ip wrecked ma^ riner upon the terrace waiting for you, who Says he has a few words to communicate of the utmost con Sequence to your future happiness and tranquillity.” aihip wrecked mariner! Julia, good heavens! what can he want with me, what shall I do down by all means, but do not, my ood friend, alarm yourself so much; it is only westbury, who wishes to hand you, to the arbour where of late
you
/
 . I
you have experienced So many doubts
'and uncertainties, that you may now
enjoy the opening prospedl of felicity
that is before youyou have the
the strangest way of doing even the
moll common things, my Julia; you
really terrified me; 1 have So Strong
an idea that my father is yet alive, and
if that Should be the cafe, who can tell
to what miserable state he may be reduced
? But I cannot now go down to
Weftbury; I am going to make 'my
acknowledgments to my beloved Mrs
Seymour, for her many a6ts of kindness
to me, and I cannot longer delay
; nay, I reflect upon myself for
defering it So long.” Do not tell me
of acknowledgments, I will undertake
to make them all for you in a trice.
9
I will try you by a court-martial of
my own ideas, and engage to have
you honourably acquitted; do not
V
• \
188  .
you know I am generalissimo of all the troops here, and that my power even extends to you poor centinal that is at present stationed at Wansford house. Alons! ma petite! no more Scruples I beseech you.”

i V
With Some difficulty I persiiaded her to go; and you See what an admirable counsel fly had given her cause to, when I had almost forgot to men
#
tion it; but I know my Eliza feels as
_ \
I do upon this occasion, and takes too much pleasure in knowing Selina happy, to make an apology neceffiary. Poor girl! it is really a misfortune to have too feeling a heart; for even at this time of festivity I am certain She suffers many an anxious hour in the idea of what her father’s situation may probably be, ^ It is a great pity Mrs. Wentworth and fly
cannot bring
them
 189
thetnselves to think that he has long Since been numbered with the dead.
We are going to dine at Lord mordington’s, and I have Scarce left myself time to adorn my person, or in the common phraze to dress, which you will allow is a great omission now, when lam upon my preferment. To rectify it as quickly as possible, I must at this moment declare myself with real fmcerity, your very affectionate
juua Harcouri,
LETTER
LXXX
miss Wentworthj to Mrs. Seymour.
Living Jim ail ey^ September 11.
4
T
HO’ my ever lively Julia both prevented my writing, and made my apology yesterday, I cannot longer excuse myself from sending a few
words
II
. f
i i
, I
i:
: i
I
I
,!
!i
LI
190
 or .
words to thank my beloved Mrs. Seymour for her many ads of  and kindness to me. Believe me, they
are written in indelible, characters on
%
my heart, which time can neither weaken nor efface.
%
w
We are here placed in the happiell situation; yet even here a sigh will sometimes intrude. I see a cloud hang Over my mothers brow, which, tho’ she takes all possible pains to conceal it, cannot escapemy observation;; the certainty of what one parent has suffered, makes me apprehensive that the other may be Struggling under a fate no less severe. But I do all in my power to banish refiedions so painful. I have So many reasons to be thankful, that it would be the height of ingratitude to suffer one care to destroy my peace, when every other bkfling courts
my
• I
M '
lil
 . II
my attention; and indeed. West bury feels So acutely for every pain of mine, that on his account I endeavour to fuppress. every anxious thought. The kindness of every individual here to my dearest: mother, is, you will imagine, a Source of great joy to me; their affeftidn to us is, indeed, unbounded.
C
We dined yesterday at lortmord mgton’s, he behaved as Julia says, wonderfully well; ” indeed. Lady Drummond would make any party agreeable; she is one of the most accomplished women I ever met with. She is quite delighted with Julia; and says, that fly did not think there had been any woman so well calculated to (hake Drummond happy. There is a quickness in her' manner, she observed, that keeps up his attention;
and
IQZ
 OP ,
and file never before Saw liveliness and
I
fensibility so happpily blended together. Her partiality to Julia of course makes her a great favourite with Lord and Lady St. Clair, so that I hope, upon the whole, it is a connexion to bellow happiness on all parties concerned.

It was a matter of debate after dinner yesterday, whether Mr, Drummond Should or Should not solicit to be made a Peer. Sir Henry Drummond Said he would bellow a fortune upon his Son that would Support a title with brilliancy and Splendour; Lord St. Clair looked as if it would be a gratification to him; but did not say much upon the subject. Julia was Ilrenuoiis against it; Ihe would rather have him plain Mr. Drummond than anything
elfe in the world,. “Thank you, my
dear

ctear Lady Julia, ” Said Drummond,
“but Surely I was not so vain of m]?' beauty that you need to have taken this public opportunity of humbling me, by informing the company that you did not think rh'e handsome.” But my dear, ” Said Sir H.D. yovt cannot always be gratified in having
A
him Mr. Drummond, for at my death you know he will of course be a baronet.” “I cannot endure, Sir, ” said Julia, to anticipate evils, it was always against my nature, and there ford we will, if you please, drop the subject;; the iincere hope that he will continue many years, notwith’ (landing the gentleman does not feera to like the epithet, plain Mr, Drum’ * mond. ”
Mrs. Scudamore is so pertedly leased and happy with this party.
Voi. m.
K
that


that I think Drummond has alnioli persuaded Mr. Scudamore to purchase a handsome house and estate, which is to be Sold in Herefordshire, nekr the
where they are to reside Julia is quite delighted with the idea forwt should all have been fixed in a corner, and Ihe would have been shut out from
all Society; Tut with Mrs. Scudamore
/
Ihe will do vastly well. They have already formed a thousand Schemes how they are to pafs their time; how many Schools and manufactories they are to patronise; in Iliort, they are to be a blessing to the whole neighbourhood
Mrs. Scudamore seems choir fatifi fied with her native country. As we returned from a cool autumnal walk this morning, ‘‘how ftiuch better is this, Lionel, ’^ Said she, than wan
wteath tileirjjshtp.
irlg on the flat roofs at Madras, in
Search of a little freflu air, which was sure to prove fruitless labour arid end
in disappointment.

I am called to attend the company
. Adieu my dear Mrs.
"down
Seymour; believe me at all times,
and on all occahons, your
« *
Selima wentwohe
LETTER LXXXII
Henry Drummond, esq. to the Rev
■e.seymout\
Livingfion, September 16, itear ihe, ye nymphs, and every swain

ti
i’ll tell h6w.|ulia Idves me 1”
TELL! that She has this fmilin^
morn, ibeftowed upon me het dear hand; and in that gift is comprised all the world’s wealth.
K 2 Weftburjr
/
19^  .
\
Weftbuiy has received the fatiye precious present from Selina! Judge then, my dear Seymour, of our transports! but believe, that even now we cease not to rememberyour ;; have yet one willi left ungratified, that of yours and your eliza’s presence on this happy day.
H. D,
imi
LETTER LXXXIII
%
Mrs. Scudamore, to Mrs. Seymour.
livingron ahhey, September 17.
Eliza, my dear Eliza, why were
you absent when so many of your friends were made happy and when their wilh for your presence was almost the only one ungratified. I know
the reason of it, and how much it redounds to your honour; but still I
fed
 . i9?
feel that I Should have been better sa tisfiedjhad it been otherwise;; had you been permitted to have shared the felicity of your friends. 1 have, just stolen away fromtlie company, to give you Some account of our proceedings.
Julia
candle,
where are you going, Mrs. Scu* dariiore, ’^ said she?? “to leave us
long, I hopei write a Sheet Mrs. Sevmoi
5” f
No longer than to of intelligence to
you are a ‘ ‘ tell her
Seymour.s’ ‘‘ Ah,
good soul, ” Said she; how well I love her, and that I have been thinking of writing to her all the
not
own story. However, I will very Soon get the better of this indolence, and write her a very long letter by way of recompense. Tell her I am beating Mr. Drummond most Severely,
K 3
at

198
 .
at backgammon, and that hitherto he
«
bears it very patiently, ’*

I hope you do not expect an account of the weddings in a Sentimental Style, because I really am not equal to Such an undertaking; neither indeed was there anything remarkable to relate. The day was the fined of all possible days, and the ceremony was conducted with the utmost Solemnity. Lord Mordington
attended at the church, and was in per
/
fe(5t good-humour all the day. After breaksaft the coaches were ordered, and we went to See Lord B — ’s housq and gardens, where neither Lionel or myself had ever been. We found it a very agreeable plan, an, returned home only in time to dress for dinner. thedrelses of the brides were simple and elegant. Lady weftbury’s or naments were few; on her arms ship
wore

 <JF . i9)
wore the bracelets given her by her mother; and around her neck, pendant to a string of pearls hung Lord weftbury’s pidiire. Lady Julia had
over her girdle a fauite mdntre, enclosing Mr. drummond’s hair; and her handkerchief was fastened with a. little golden arrow, the present, Ihe informed me of her true love."
After tea we had a little concert; and in the hall were the Sons and daughters of the tenants of both families merrily footing it to a tabour and pipe.' It was a great addition to their pleasure to dance one dance in company with the brides and bridegrooms, who were so
good-humoured as to propose our go
*»
down and joining this jovial crew, I do not think I ever danced in a hap. pier party. This morning Lord and Lady Weftbury went to breakfast with
K 4
Lord
200 WRIAIH 01
Lord Mordington. Mrs. Wentworth
was of the party, at his particular desire; you cannot imagine how polite he is to her. I laugh and tell her I believe she will be a countess at last. She Smiles through her tears, and chides me for my levity; and in the midst of all her good fortune, cherilhes an unavailing regret for her lost huf
This morning the gentlemen pro
•
posed a walk in the park. Nothing could be more tempting than the day, or more acquiescing than Lady Julia and your humble Servant. Lord St. Clair, Mr. Drummond, aid Mr. Scudamore, were our attendants. You know the beauty of the grounds, and you know also how I admire Jhady groves and purling (irearns. I insensibly led the way into a grove which
m
wrexth of FRIENT>SHIP. 201
in the midll of summer would be al moll quite dark, but at this feason only barely excludes thelun., ‘‘ Come back, Mrs.. Scudamore, ” laid Mt. Drummond, ‘‘ and do not lead me just now to a place that always ink spires melancholy, even when Juhak
is leaning on my arm.
» et
Ah!, then,

said Julia, ' “this is the very Spot * where you met Mn. Selwyn; let us hasten away, I would not Stay a moment longer in it for a.kingdom!” You must imagine all the. kind looks of Drummond, in return for this sentence, and you will notj I. think doubt his gra > titude*' The story Lhad .never heard, and wee converted. on the fubjecl till We. got to a little riling, ground adjoining to the road leading from iweft buryr Lodge, and which is separated ■
from it by a tall hedge, of < horn bean,, which .entirely hides the park.palin

K S
Lord i
20z  .
Lord St. Clair stopped, Mr. scu damore, ’' Said he, “you admire fine trees, look at that, ” pointing to a poplar which was grown tc^a prodigious size. Lionel, you know, k very curious, he mufl know the height of the tree, and not content with that, its circumference also. The gentlemen
began
measuring.
and Lady
Julia took me by the arm and led m
away
We had not walked many
paces when we observed on looking back that they were all very intent upon Something, but I could not tell what. Lady Julia quickened her pace, and Lord St. Clair called out,. “Julia! Julia! come here and explain this mystery?” ?” coloured,.
ah. Said she, I thought they would discover my folly; it was what I feared when they observed the treck' But it is no matter now \ I may as well
tell
 . 203

tdl the truth as not.

We arrived Pray, Julia,
can you explain this inscription

yf
y, H. took her lajl Uok of if. ^ What does this mean?
Said
ladies, can you unriddle it?
Lord St. Clair, looking very lignifir cantly athis daughter whoj recover
t
ing from her confufioh, acknowledged herself the carver of these words “At
the time, ” said she.. “Mr,
%
Drummond was'ly ing ill of the wounds.
* * \
he received in the fatal rencontre we
V
I *
have juft.talked of .my heart was not much at ease.. my only consolation was in the accounts I received of
this
health.. I concluded; we should never meet more, and determined,. if possible, to take a lafti look.. I found out by questioning the Servants, the
4
day, and nearly the hour, he was to kave the, Lodge;. and fixed upon
this
204
 .
this Spot as the moll likely to give me that indulgence. I left Selina at her work, and walked about till 1 heard the noise of the carriage. I thought I should have sunk at the sound; I had hardly strength to lean against this tell tale tree; through that opening in the hedge I saw, the pofleltor of my heart, s I thought, for the last time. How languid and how pale he looked! the;, very remembrance, makes me Ihuddcr*
I sunk down on the bank for a conr hdcrable time,, lost; in thought;,, and was only roused by the sound of the first dinner bell. I returned, home,
but came the next morning, to, record
on the bark of the tree my misery, and; what I then thought my V weakness;;; you will not, I thinkv^defpife, rnp
for this confession, Henry? and, Mrs. Scudamore is herfeifsfo open to these
'.7
• 4
im
V
 ,
2'0^:
9
impressions, that Ihe will hardly be th
•A
first to laugh at. me.”
Forever Sacred' to love fhen/^ replied Mr. Drummond, be this charming Spot! Here, my dearell Julia, we will often return and renevy uurvows; and.to the last. moment of mylife.ihall. be remembered this auspicious .hour.” ^ The dinner bell once more rung, unwillingly we left this interesting Scene. I then determined to send you this anecdote, because II am certain you will never hear it from, Lady Julia. My lively friend is just.
.
come to desire the fd.v.our of my com, fany, ‘‘good heavens!” Said Ihe
3
what a volume have you written, “Yes,, and your, ladyihip is the prin
»‘S
ciple heroine.” ' “That is not fair, why was not Selina to have her Share irvthe novel > She certainly ought to

2o6  .
I
have been the moll conspicuous character; especially, as you began the romance of her life, you are bound to finish it; but, come away, you (hall not tonight Scribble another line.’* There was no refusing her request; therefore, dear Eliza, join all our befl
^ « t
wishes. We leave this agreeable fa mily in three days, and pay our intended visit to Mr. Mandeville.
#
Moll truly your’s,
Emily Scudamore.
L E T T E R LXXXIV
Drummond, esq. to the Rev..
£, Seymour,
lieing Jion abhey, September 19...
My Dear, Seymour,
Afn now. certain there is no Situation; in life, which, can make me forgetful of my friends; or blunt that, keen, desire I have to communicate, -
happiness..
■ . 207
happiness. His true the intelligence I have now to offer will not afford that pure Sentiment unalloyed; but
s
while we grieve for the Situation of one, we will flatter ourselves that the Sufferings of the other are near an end; and without further delay I will relate to you the circumllances that have given birth to these reflections, and
leave
you to comment upon
the
dark and intricate ways of Providence.

»
Three hours ago we all assembled! at breakfast; at that time the poft ge nerally arrives. All hands and eyes are prefently employed. Lord St. Clair broke the Seal of a letter with the
f
French stamp, and exclaimed! Good' God! ’tis from Mr. Selwyn! what can he possibly have to say to me ‘‘ Oh,
do let us hear, ’’ Said my dear little
. wise,,
2: c8  .
wise, Oh! do let us hear, * was echoed By all the females in company. He read as follows:.
My Dear Lord,
In the present exi gency of my affairs I appeal to yoiir
‘‘ humanity, when I dare not to your ‘‘ . The former, is 1 know, ever active;; latter, I fear, I have ‘^•forfeited all title.to.. That ralhnefs and impetuosity which you have always Blamed, and so often tried to moderate, has at last, i.believe, proved my. ruin, and your predic; “tions are verified. I am a .prisoner, at present, jnthe Bastile, for. having, I much fear, taken from a Luman being, his existence my.fate. has indeed, beeavery untoward.,. I was
ft
seized immediately, and all • flight prevented.
I
was not

\
 . 209
** Searched, and my purse, whidi was
‘‘ tolerably full, is Hill in my pof ‘‘ fellion; and is the only means by which you could receive any knowledge of my fate. I entreat of you to use your interest with the Duke ofd
CC


t, who, as public minister, may have it in his power to effed
my release. Should I have been fa fortunate as not mortally to have “wounded my antagonist, who is a German officer, and the husband of Mademoiselle de Sanzey, the un
“fortunate cause of this event. I have
♦
not time to relate particulars, nor is my mind equal to a confession of all my guilt. Should I ever have the happiness of throwing myself at your feet, you Shall then be ac quainted with the drcumslances that led to my misfortune; and by
‘‘ accusing((
((

C
((
CC
\
210  .
ce
accuiiiig myself, I will deprecate
your resentment.
CC

€C
CC
My only consolation is, that I
alone to my own ream
not
“flections. I have a fellow prisoner, “who is also an Englilhman, ignorant of his crime, though he has been con fined for Ibme years. He seems de“ “a better fate than constant affliction, which he says has been his companion since the first twenty “years of his life. His name is Wentworth, and he has a large eft ate in Devonshire,
This last Sentence put an entire flop to the conclusion of the letter. Mrs. wentworth’s tea cup dropped from her hand, and Lady Weftbury rose from her Seat, unknowing what fly
did. In a moment Her arms were
# ^
thrown
 . 211
thrown around the neck of her mother, who sunk speechless into her chair. All was confusion and astonishment! the concern wc felt for poor Selwyn at the beginning of the letter, was entirely forgotten; and we thought of nothing but Mr. Wentworth, and the singular difeovery of his situation'
'\
Wentworth, recovering from the stupor, Surprise had occasioned, pressed her daughter to her bosom, and Said, in faltering accents, “now I am Satisfied! I have lived to hear of my Charles, perhaps I may yet see him! Oh! thou bountiful and beni ficent Being, who hast guided my wandering steps thro’ life, how Shall I thank thee for all flowed on a repining creature? the moments of my life will be too short to pour out all my gratitude! but my
Selina
this good be

212  ,
Selina will take up the talk, and never cease to praise the author of all this happiness.’^
It was a full hour, I believe, before, we thought of hnilhing our repast, were at all composed, or could Settle what Ilep was bed to be taken to expedite the release of these two gentlemen. Weftbury generously offered to Set off immediately, and proceed
to Paris as fall as possible.
Lady
Weftbury looked assis she wished to be one of the party; but it was overruled, and determined that she and Mrs. Wentworth should remain at the Abbey, ’till the return of Lord Weftbury. He is gone to the Lodge to inform Lord Mordington of his intentions, and returns here to an early dinner, and means to be in i.ondon
tornisht.
My
 .
213
My Julia is retired with her two friends, whose agitations are really painful, and who want both comfort
and consolation.
Poor Selina can
hardly support the idea ofweftbury’s being once more at the mercy of the waves; and Mrs. wentworth’s fears almost get the better of her hopes. For my own part, I feel great compassion for the fate of poor Selwyn, and concern for the unfortunate Rofalia, whose imprudence, I fear, has occasioned this event; and thank heaven, that interposed in my favour andpreferved me from everlasting misery, to confer on me supreme bliss. Adieu, my dear friend! the post allows me no more time for reflection. That I am ever your’s, I hope you will always believe.
H. D.
LETTER
: li WRFATH OF friendsmi^j
e. *.
LETTER LXXXV
Seymour, to Lady Julia Drnmmcni,
wansford iioujey September it
R Seymour and myself • have
Sent in proper form our congratulations to our dearest friends at Livingston. Bilt a formal congratu laiion is not Sufficient to Satisfy my full heart, tny Julia; you have ever been deservedly dear to me, and at this moment my heart expands with gratitude to that all bountiful good hefs, who has conducted you thro’ every danger, and placed you in ^ Rate So full of bliss. That the same kind arm may gently lead you through the maze of life, free from every tormenting Care, is my moult earn eft wilh» You have every prospect of' happiness, and I flatter riiyfclf no dark ihade will ever intercept the view
Yoiif
 . llj
Your own good fense will teach you, that to enjoy with moderation and gratitude the happiness kind heaven has beftpwed on us, is the most ac * ceptable return we can make for the
s received. Drummond is in every respedt Suitable to )’our disposition;; 1 doubt not but I shall have the happiness of Seeing you a pattern of conjugal felicity; and I Can from experience affure you, that no date in this world can be, Compared with that of a happy married life. Allure my dear Lady Weftbury, that I include her in all my good wiflhes. 1 never felt So. inclined to Swerve from my duty as at present; believe me, I am truly mortified not to make one at
n; but Mr and Mrs.
4
watson will soon be at home, and We will, on the wings of friendihip.
fly to join your happy party
We
have

/.
have had Lord Malbourn with us for a few days; he is gone upon a Shoot iiig party into Yorkshire. He says he shall fi-om thence write his con gratulations to Mr. Drummond; but he greatly fears they will not be Sincere, as Drummond has married the only woman he ever willed to call his wife. But do not be uneasy, he seems to bear fly disappointment with true stoical fortitude; and may in time be induced to think Some other fair one worthy of such a distinction. He is a deserving and agreeable young man, and as the greatest compliment 1 can pay him, I whh him zve// mar ned. I am, indeed, my Julia, a sincere convert to your sentiments upon the subject of matrimony; and I hope you will yourself experience with how much propriety you realoned* But it
inuft not be expe<9: ed that every giddy
boy
 .
217
boy and girl, whose romantic notions
to seek their hap
entice
them
piness in a Scotch wedding, lliould meet with the Same golden hours, which are promised to those only who love with truth, and marry with discretion.

We have a
convincing
proof at this moment at Wansford, that all are not happy that are married. Your o\(\friendy Mils Hargrave, has thought proper to take a trip to Great na green with a young officer. Hi inducement too plainly appears to have been the prospect of her fathers fortune; her’s, I presume, a frolic. But they are woefully awakened from their dream of pleasure; her father has refused to see them or assist them;
0
his relations cannot do anything for them : and as a last resource they are come to her uncle’s at Wansford.
Vol. III
L
'r
*•5
1.
N
V
2i8
1 have never Seen them but with
9
infinite pain, for it is dreadful to look forward to a long lifeofmisery; and such, I fear, will be their lot. He is sullen, and she is extremely perveife. Did but the giddy unthinking part of the world see these two young people as they now are, they would not slight those kind admonitions their more experienced friends would so willingly give them. But I have no time for moralising, nor you occa
t _
fion for my lectures. That succeeding years may roll on, and Hill find you happy, is the prayer of your
Eliza Seymour.
LETTER
V

 OJ fftlenlssaip. ZIJ LETTER LXXXVI
P
Lady Julia Lrummondy to ylx%.seymouth
Livtngjion ahbeyf September i
tliousand thanks to you, my beloved Eliza, for your congratulations
and kind vvilhes. I
W
I
cerely hope they will be all accoin plilhed, and Selina and myselfbe held, up to all our female acquaintances as patterns of conjugal felicity. I fully expected to have dispatched this letter to you with a long account of our mirth, festivity and feasting, but alas I the brightest prospefts are foonell over fliadowed; and we are once more reduced to a state of care and anxiety. But I own myself fanguiiie enough to hope, that this is but a palling cloud, which willfoon be over, and will only Serve to render our happiness more permanent and durable, by relloring
L z
to
220
feeing
to Mrs. Wentworth her long lost husband. Poor woman! you will easily conceive what her feelings will be on this ogcafion; (he is Sometimes depressed with apprehensions, and then again exulting in the hope of once more
her beloved Charles. Lord jmordington came to lit an hour or two x\ith uslaft night. Mrs. Went worth’s Spirits had been So indifferent all day, and as She Seemed not at all disposed to take her Share in conversation, my mother proposed to her to join them in; a rubber at whill. She readily agreed to the proposal, as indeed jqie does to everything Ihe thinks her friends wish her to comply with. But I could not help observing the effort was painful to her; and therefore determined, as Soon as possible, to release her from an exertion So disagreeable. “I do not know what you think of
h,
 , 221
it, good people, ’^ Said I, but I look upon my present situation to be completely uncomfortable; here Sit I, like a poor.forsaken matronf all alone, y'hilll Monsieur Drummond is playing off his whole artillery of compliments to the Lady Selina, wiio, by the by, is receiving them with as many Sweet Smiles as if there were no such personas Lord Weftbury in existence. But I mull inform you, I think these proceedings ought to be checked at the very first;; therefore, if you please, Mr. Drummond, to take Mrs. wentworth’s cards, we will retire to her dreffing room, to consider in what manner her daughter ought to be puniflied, for encouraging you, in your old love of flirtation.’* She readily Saw my design, and leaning upon my arm we quitted the room. “How much am I obliged to
L 3
V o u.
122
’ 3 ou, my dear Lady Julia, *’ Said die,
A
for thus procuring my r Who would expert So much Serioi^
thought joined to So large a share of
• ^
vivacity as you Seem pofleired of; a little private conversation with you was the very wilh my heart was Sighing after at that inllant. My selina’s Spirits are So very weak, I dare not tell her half my' hopes and fears, lest I should too much depress her gentle frame; and to say the truth, her own lliare of anxiety Seems at almost more than She can bear; it il very unfortunate Ihe Should be pa, rted
f
from Lord Weftbury at this time. Poor girt! when she considers the fate of her mother and grandmother, well may Ihe tremble !” “My dear Mrs. Wentworth, ” Said I, an idea So terrible I iincerely hope has never presented itself to her imagination;
this
i
. i
BREATH OF . 223^
this is no country of despotifm, nor is Lord Weftbury a rash man; his known good sense and moderation will preserve him from any inconvenience his present Situation at Pai% might throw him into. I am, confident the only uneafiness Selina Suffers .on his account is, his eroding the Sea at So unpropitious a season; but he will, I hope Soon return, and bring with him comfort to those hearts that
I
are now So anxiously waiting for his arrival.’* I will hope So too, my amiable friend, ’* faidfhe, “and ’yet 1 will confess my weakness; even amongll those Sweet reflections, I cannot avoid mingling a few of the bitter drops of regret; I have been long Separated from my beloved hufldand, he left me in the bloom of youth, sparkling with health and vivacity; he will find me in the decline of life.
L 4
weighed.
224  .
weighed down with the iron hand of adversity. Who can tell whether his heart will remain the Same after So many years have elapsed ?” ‘‘ Mrs.
Wentworth has, lam confident, .Sustained too many, real miseries, to Suffer her mind to dwell long upon vain chimaeras. You must confider that every year that has rolled over your head, has likewise added one to the number of his; and that Mr. Wentworth, like yourself, has been in the school of misfortune, consequently his ideas will be more Suited to your present frame of mind than if you still retained your youth and cheerfulness.’* She thanked me for so kindly encouraging her, and then gave me Some #
account of those happy days She Spent with her dear Charles, ^ at Cudalore. I did not interrupt her narrative, as the Tccolledion Seemed to give ease to her
mind.
 . 21^
mind, and for a moment to Soften Her affliction. When supper was an
V V
noimced Ihe returned to the company more composed, aiid even, cheerful, than: I had ever seen her.
Lord' Mordington was tolerably good-humoured; but he. is threatened with the gout in his Hand and wishes to be at Bath, yet does not choose to leave the country hill his fon returns; : so you must allow that his temper now ’ meets with some trials. However, I believe, upon the whole, he was worse when he had nothing to vex Him, which' I fancy is often the cafe with ill tempered peoplb. They make a merit of: conquering real evils, whilst they ful ffer trifles tp disturb their peace
.’K
r am going to spend' this whole at Weftbury lodge;, which' F
L 5
220  OP .
t
must confess, is not quite agreeable to
111
jntj to leav^ my two fri tjieir present State of mind but Sir Henry and Lady Drummond go. away in the morning; and we Shall not see them till we visit them at Drum
mond'plage, I could not refufci
I cannot dismifs this letter without' saying one word of poof Selwyn., To what a dreadful: Slate lias his ralli impetuous temper at lad’ reduced him. I am afraid in this affair he has be haved extremely ill. I pity Mademoiselle: de San; ey extremely. Hovr different must her present Situation be,, from the gay prospe<5t that presented itself to her view a few months ago 1 Had. pie married Drummond, I will venture to say, Eliza, Ihe must have been happ^i His good sense would have pointed out to her a path of rcc
i
 . 227,
titude, from which it would have beeiii impoltible for her to have deviated. I have Some faint hope that Captain: Hermondorff is not dead; if that Should be the cafe, Selwyn may yet recover his liberty; and, as what we look upon to be our heaviest mif fortiines. Sometimes turn out our greatest blessings, who knows but his present situation may cause him to review
4
his past conduct, and turn his mind to more Serious thoughts. If he does not now refled we must give him ufk. as lost for ever.
✓
It is drummond’s high will and. f)ieafure \hdit I Should immediately attend him, to Weftbury place; and as you know, by woeful experience, my Eliza, it is now my. duty to obey, I? must instantly conclude my letter. it iis a. frightful, word, but as it is my
maxim
22s  .
maxim to enjoy life to the very extent of our power, I will endeavour to banish it from the mind of your truly affectionate
Julia Drummond,
LETTER LXXXVII
Lord jvejihuryy to Lady Wejlbury,
London September 20,
OW heavily pass the hours, my dearest Selina, while absent from those we love! What an age it seems since I parted from you! and what an immeasurable distance appears to divide us. If So painful already our separation, what torments. Shall I not feel till we meet again h Write to me, my love, every day, every hour; and tell me all that paffea
in thn gentle heart. Tell me, thaw
you
 . 229-
ju think of your Weflbury every moment, and ligh for his return. Depend upon it that Shall be as speedy as the nature of my bufiness will allow; and which I trull will bring joy. and gladness to my dearell girl, and, her amiable mother

Two hours ago I alighted at L thian’s Hotel, and immediately took a coach to lincolnvinn, where i found Mr. P. just concluding a letter to myself, to. inform lue that Mrv
notw
K
treatment he had met with, had yesterday absconded, taking with him every thing of value his. house contained. Where he is gone, no one knows; he has taken no fervent with him, nor left any orders behind. Surely this is a strong confession of his guilt. I meaiit. to haye inquired of
\
230

him Some particulars about Mr. wentworth’s situation; but, ’tis possible, he might not have chosen to have given me any fatisfadfion,. therefore, probably I lose nothing by his departure. The law matters are in great fors

wardness against him, but your father’s presence will render lill that unnecessary, I Shall set off very early tomorrow morning, and hope to be in France before night. alture yourself that I am perffe^u'y well’, and do not let any unneceltary fears rob you of a moment’s tranquillity; I would be remembered ’tis true but not pain. Take care of yourself, my chaipning girl, for one who lives
only to love and’ Serve you; and whose greatest happiness is the being your moil, faithful; and affectionate
weubury...

\
 . 2^; I;
LETTER LXXXVIII.
Lord Wejtbury, to Lady ivefihury.
Paris, seftemhef'x'^,.
THOUGH I breathe not the Same air
with my Selina, yeti breathe:
i
only for her. That lovely form is for
ever present tor'my mmd; and no?
^ V
change of scene can make any change' of sentiment. Thus, in the language; of the heart could I write a volume to you; but business calls me from so^ fvveet a subject, and compels me to make use of this leisure moment to? inform you what I have already doncj, and what I am to. do.
I travelled all night, sleeping tolerably in my chaise, and I arrived here at nine this morning At the proper hour I waited on. the Duke of D — t, who received me. with the utmost politeness.


231
 .
tateness, heard my dory, and offered, me all his altiftance. Nay, So forward is he in his attention, that he desires me to call on him a2: ain tomorrow to
o
hear the result. I must confess I am very Sanguine, and look forward to an early conclusion of. this Strange affair.


From him Iwent to the toilet of Madame Surville. She was sitting before her glass, her Hair en papilliote;, but file arose at my entrance, and embracing me most affectionately, presented me to tile beaux who were attending. She asked what had brought me to. Laris, and rejoiced that She had’ once more an opportunity of feeing; me. I returned'her compliments with as good'a grace as fhej possibly, ex* pe6ted; and told her, some trifling rea fbn, to Satisfy her curiosity.
L
\
 .
233
I turned the conversation, as Soon as I could, on Selwyn. “Ah! my dear friend!’’ exclaimed Madame Surville, “poor devil! he has managed his affairs very ill, and has been very unfortunate too; but no wonder he was so imprudent, for nothing could be So absurd as running away with another
My dear ma’am, I
man s
wife.


know not a word of the story, pray inform me?” Oh, with all my heart. You know Rofalia de Sanzey, Ihe was to have married that lively Briton, Monlieur Drummond; but Ihe changed her mind. He was no longer on the Spot, and Captain Hermondorff‘ presented himsclf. In a few weeks after they first met, they were married; and in a few weeks more, ftie found out that Monlieur Selwyn was much more agreeable than her Serious husband. He attended her constantly,
and
■
and was a favoured lover. He was going to Spend the winter at Rome; what a charming plan! Ihe longed to go Vv'ith him, and he kindly allced her to be of the party : But how were they to get away unknown to Captain her mondorff? he was grave and phlegmatic, but jealous of. his honour and brave; and this was a dangerous undertaking. But the more danger, they laid, the more honour; (you must;; well the proverb was applied,) and from the Opera they agreed to elope. selwyn’s carriage and Servants were to be in waiting, ^ and the hight was to favour their escape. They got into the chaise! the Captain had been apprized of the Scheme, and was attending, with proper officers, to Seize the delinquents, which they did as Soon as they had Seated themselves in the carriage Selwyn drew to defend
 .
^35
send his prize; wounded his adversary, but was taken, and conveyed to the Ballile; and Madame was hurried away to a Convent at Montauban, far from the capital and her friends, there to weep out the rest of her life in penitence and prayer.
The wound of Mr. Hermondorff was very slight, and yesterday I met him airing in his carriage. His recovery has been rapid, but how your friend will recover his liberty is the question.” I did not reply, hope eby my means.’’ This, therefore, .is the history of poor Selwyn, as told by this lively French woman, and which you
will communicate to our friends; at
/
the same time Saying, I have no doubt of procuring for him his freedom. I am now going to rest, more out of particular care of myself, than any

A'. ^ y /
236  .
necessity, as I do not feel at all fatigued; but 1 remember the promise 1 made my love at parting, and will perform every part of it, being truly grateful for the kind interest She takes in my preservation. Adieu, my dearest wife I tomorrow I hope - to have letters from you! What a blessing will that be, to your faithful
^jihury, r
\
LETTER LXXXIX
Lady Julia Drummond, to Mrs. Seymour.
A
Livlngjion abbeyy September 28,
S I am certain, my Eliza, you are at this time particularly anxious to hear of our proceedings, I have requested selina’s leave to send you the copies of two letters Ihe has received from lordweftbury since I
wrote

 . 237
wrote last. You will find everything justin the state we could have wished; and we are now in daily expectation of the arrival of Lord Weftbury and Mr. Wentworth.
We met with a very agreeable rencontre yesterday morning, which we found very Seasonable. ‘ ‘ pour pajjer le tems, ^* in our present slate of sul pense. Mrs. Wentworth, Selina, and myself, were walking upon the terrace after breakfast, when the gardener came up to us, and Said, there was a gentleman and lady had been Seeing the pleasure grounds and the gardens, and they had a great desire to see the hotife; but as he had his miftrefs’s order not to Show it, when the family were at home he durft not admit them. “Oh pray Show them in by all means, James, ’’ said I, *
the
■ «
43s

present season is So unfavourable to See gardens and pleasure grounds, that they will require the sight of a warm house to recompense them for their trouble. I will step in 'for a moment and tell niy mother they are comings Just as I had done Speaking, a very Smart lady and gentleman appeared .As Soon as the lady call; Irer eyes on Mrs. Wentworth, Ihe ran to her, rmyorixana 1 my dear Orixana, ^^ Said (he, ‘‘ I am happy beyond ex preltion at once more beholding you!” “Oh, my benefadfress! is it you Said Mrs. Wentworth; ‘‘ you are the primary cause of all my happiness j but for you I Should never have known
Mrs. Scudamore; and then perhaps I
#
fhoold never have Seen England.”
'• The gentleman first; glanced a look at Selina, then at me, and exclaimed
with
< ‘
239
with great coolness, ‘^ha, Orixana, is it possible you can .be here !' what strange fate can have placed you in
’ Explanation now
this situation??
place on all fides, and we Soon discovered the Ilrangers to be no others than Mr. and Mrs. dennison The gentleman Seemed not a little aftonilh ed when he was introduced to Lady Weltbury, as orixand.s daughter. I enjoyed it much. We then adjourned to the house, and let my mother into
the whole history. They have been
\
in Scotland, Seeirlg some of Mr. den nison’s friends, from whencethey are now returning, and were entirely ignorant of the arrival of Mn and Mrs. Scudamore. My father and Mr. Drummond Soon after returned from
\
/
riding; and my father, who is hospitality itself, would not hear of their leaving us yesterday;; we could
not
ilj{.0  .
Rot prevail upon them to Stay, longer than this morning.
y
You have Seen them both, Eliza, and therefore my comments on them "are unnecessary;; I think her one of t he moll agreeable women I ever Saw. I cannot lay, I So much admire him; but however, he has one merit in my eyes, he Seems particularly fond
of her.
He either looked at Mrs.
Wentworth, or I fancied So, as if She had already taken up too much of his wife’s attention; but perhaps that was only my idea, from knowing the circumstance
of his not choosing to bring
«
her to Eno; iand.
O.
Adieu, my dear Eliza; when do you
write
coming? I can only say if yu do not
make
24i
make your appearance Soon, you will for once in your life, incur the dis pleasure of your
Julia Drummond.
LETTER
XC
14
O
Lorti /n’jihury, to Lady Wefihury.
Paris, September 26,
OPEN everything, my dearest life, from the exertions of one devoted to your Service; and who will, ( however tedious the absence from you may appear) leave nothing un <lone to accomplish your wishes, and if possible complete your happiness. How shall I thank my Selina for the letters I have this day received? Words are too poor to express the fense I have of her kindness; but Ihe will
believe all I would wilh, for Ihc is all goodness,
Vol. HI. M Tom
morrow.
242  .
Your father, my love, is well! and in a little time will I hope tell you So 1 But I have not yet Seen him; that inmoment is not to be till to how would your fancy dwell on our meeting, could you but know when it would happen! I have gained one great point, the unravelling the mystery of his confinement; and I have no doubt but I Shall prove it to have been extremely unjust. Mr. Dacre, that wretched man, is the author, I am certain, of all this misery. When I confider the Several circumstances together, and every other proof of his villainy, I do not hesitate to condemn him,, as the informer against Mr. Wentworth to this government, who are ever jealous and ready to catch at theleaft trifle; and I do not find that they met with any other proofs of his being a spy( ( was ailedged
against
 . !143
against him) but Some drawings of places in Lrance, which he had Iketched at leisure moments. But these were thought Sufficient proofs of his dangerous intentions; and thus, withy

out farther trial, or any legal process he has been in prison ever fincea very (hort time after Colonel wentworth’s death. The Duke ofd. has remonstrated very warmly in his behalf, and surmounted all the forms which nsually present themselves on these occasions.
obligations to him, and I Shall ever feel them. I hope in a very few days to leave France, and hasten tolivingllon.
We have indeed everlasting;
O
Jarvis will tell you ( like Lizardo in the Wonder) that I talk of nothing but Selina; She is the burden of my Song from morn to eve. May she be ever happy, is the Constant prayer tef her faithful
M a
244  .
LETTER XCI

f.
Lord ivejlbury, to Lady Wejlhury.
Paris, September 28.
AM returning, like a Knight er raritj crowned with vidory, to lay my laurels at the feet of my mifiress; and receive from her fair hands the reward of my labours. Yes, my dearest Selma, I have been fuccessful; your Icither is at liberty! He is now by my fide, but knows not thaf 1 am writing to one so tenderly conneded with him. I have not yet thought it proper to acquaint him with the joy that awaits his return to his native country; surprises of that sort are as pernicious to the human frame as excess of grief; and to have told him all his good fortune at once, might have been attended with fatal consequences. I reserve, therefore, Mrs. scudamore’s
letters
 . 24_^
letrers for our last day’s journey; and have only begged him to grant me the favour of conveying him to Some old friends, who anxioudy willi to see him; and this I tdl him is all the gratification I a ik for an, obiisation he looks upon as iminenfe.
Yesterday I received the orders of Government for the releac oi the two captives, and immediixely wrot to Selwyn, to lay I Should
^ I ••
! V
viui
in two hours; and hopea ir,. a more time not only to procure his enlargement, but that of his fellow priloner also. I went as I had appointed, and was conducted along narrow melan choly stone passages, till I came to the iron gates which had enclosed so many
But your gentle nature would fiiudder to See only the entiance to a place in which your fa
M 3 thw*
miserable beings.
'"PA
* >
246  OF PR I END SH IF.
therhas Spent So many years. They were brought to a Small room adjoining to that in which I was introduced to them. Selwyn was in ecstasies at the light of me, and loaded me with expressions of thankfiilness; he presented me to Mr. Wentworth, whom 1 could not see without great emotion. I Should have known him any whene fdr the father of my Selina. Neither time, grief, nor confinement, have obliterated those fine features, of which you, my love, are a delicate copy. His countenance, calm and Serene, be speaks the Saint and the philosopher; he was little moved “either at selwynv raptures, or the intelligence 1 brought him, but Said Confinement was grown familiar to him, and in his own country no one remained to cheer his latter days, or take any interest in his fate.’^ I was beginning, to reascn away
W R E A T If F ERIE ND S H, I F'. 247
these depressing thoughts, when sel wyn interrupted me, by alking to what kind fortune he was indebted for my interposition in his favour I heard, ”
that yoii; were to be
hcj

married before, this, time: to miss Courtney, I. hope nothing has prevented your happiness taking place; and if not, how. is it that I see you here?” I answered him that I had inv

deed, only been blessed with the hand of my Selina three days before I heard of his confinement; and that I had left you even so soon, to bring comfort to the afflicted;; that his gratitude must be offered to a much higher Being than myself, who was only the instrument, and not the cause' '
had Scarcely finished these words, when 1 was alarmed by the sobs of Mn Wentworth. I turned and beheld
M 4
him
248  .
him absorbed in affliiffion. Shocked
X
at the date I Saw him in, I apologised for having unintentionally Said anything that had awakened painful rc> fleftions. “Alas! Sir, ” ' Said he, “I am not the hero I thought myself! I boasted of apathy, and my heart, cold as it is, is not yet proof against a Sweet sound; neither religion nor misfortunes have yet subdued all my feelings, and it stili vibrates at the name of Selina, once to an incomparable mother, and a lovely infant; both long lost to me. Why then am not I as infenlible as
which belonged
they arc


I permitted him to indulge
his Sorrow a little while, and then tried to turn the conversation to the prospe(ft before him. He Soon regained his tranquillity, and complimented me on the part I had undertaken; said, he rejoicod to find there
was
 . 249
was at least one virtuous being,
who
could give up his own enjoyments to dispense comfort to those who had no claim on his charity but that of being feilovv creatures. After a little longer conversation, I told them a coach: waited to take them' away.. They did not expect So soon to, bid; adieu to the walls of the, Bastile, nor could your father leave it without tears; So true is it, that our minds in, time grow familiar to the moult dismal;; and'contract a kind ' ocaffee tion for a place they have long inha --. bited, however wretched or disa
C
KJ
ei\y yn Spent the • even i n g w i th • us; he declined being of our party to England, but pursues his intention of wintering in.italy anduhis morning we Separated, taking different routs.
M
.5
Ve
2
wrra'ttl' F FR rendsh.r?.
We are now hastening: home with Speed; but our hoi'ses muff fly Swifter than an arrow to keep pace with my impatience. I return to you, my Selina, with, a heart overflowing with love, and a conseiousness of having; done my duty and acted as. I ought; how does that thought console me for So long an absence, ^ which has beem
•severely felt by. your
wefihvfy^.
Ill W
L E T T E Rl XCII
'hirs, .Sejmam:, to Lady Julia Drummond.
Wansford house, September 29
O
** Hope Springs eternal in the humatr^ breasts
■* .‘
{
That is a truth, my friend, we
can all bear witness to; and how dull and inflpid would life pais
i
on
 OF friendskip. 2^1
on without those gentle agitations that give a relish, to pleasure and fofteii even pain itself. I am placed by a kind' ' in a lot So happy, that I have not one, willi for myself imgratified; but I feel. that the anxieties of others polfess a share in my breast, and my ititereft in their happiness or misery, mufi; Hill agitate my b, ofom with hopes and fers.
Mr. Seymour and ' myself are par, .licularly interested in' the fate of Mr ■ and we are much obliged"
A
to you for Lord weflbury’s letters,,, and entreat you will not,, delay s a moment informing us of The meeting be.. this, once unfortunate pair. I. mult ever regret > that two. people so. formed for social;; Should by one, false step have: occafionecl So many fniserable years to'each aether; but .as
they
r
252
 OF FRIEKPSEIF.
they, by this time, mull have repented. Severely of their error, I hope ail their future years will bring Smiling peace along with them, and allow them in grateful praise to lift up their hearts to that kind providence who has in so unforeseen a manner Condudled them once more to happiness.

Mr. Seymour tells me inclination has given way to duty, in my being so long parted from the friend of my heart; but I do not agree to the charge, for where he relldes my in
4
clinations will always lead me. I mud confess, however, it was, with no common pleasure, that I heard of Mr. wat fon’s intention of being at home this week. A few days after his arrival, v/e propose embracing our beloved friends at Livipgfton; and by the
length
 OF FRIEKDSIUP. 253
0
length of our visit, we will recompciil'e ourselves for this tedious absence..
inclosed you will receive a


which I have had -- from my dear Emily. Her narrative is interesting; and as youj were all acquainted with the first part, you will be both, entertained and der lighted with the concluiion..
1 am. half sorry Mi s. Scudamore; seems determined to be. near you, my Julia; I did flatter myself the only addition her happiness could receive would have been, in living near me. But I will not complain, as my Seymour makes up to me, by his constant attentions, the. absence of all my friends; and, my grateful heart is ever ready to acknowledge, how much real happiness I have enjoyed since
the
2‘54  ;
I
die fortunate day i became his wife.
That you, my Julia, may enjoy an
equal share of happiness, is the earnest ¥
prayer of your
Eliza Seymour.

L E T T E R XCIIE
Mrs, Scudamorej to Mrs. Seymour.
M
September.
Write this letter from the rural re -- treat of: the virtuous and amiable
Mandeyille.
Mr. Scudamore and;
my fell Arrived here yesterday ^ pursuance of a; former promise, and for a?, few minutes after our arrival fu ppofed: we had fet, our feet, in a terrellrial paradise. It, happened to be the village ' feall; the Iky was particularly serene for this climate; and the Iliruhs and;
flowei s that adorned the green before
the
 .
rt ^ ^ ^ »
the house, appeared in great persedion. The trees have not yet Ihed their leaves, but are beautified by that, charming glow of various colouring., that the. autumn alone can produce,. The young, villageis of both sexes’ were dancing on the velvet carpet of nature, - to the. rough music of a. country musician.. The old' people: sat on benches' under the Iliady trees, looking on. The neatness of their Holiday Gloaths, the kind looks ote
their parents, and; the. fond glances of: the admiring bvains,. with the air of health and clieerfulnefs that afiimated: their countenances, gave a livelinefs and simplicity. to the scene, not to be. conceived’by the frequenter of draw ing rooms, and the inhabitant of a hot. metropolis. To complete this group, our friend Mandevilte and his accom.
lady, were standing by, as Spec --
tators.
2c6
 OR .
tators. By these we were received
with the moll unafse^ed
t
attention.,
/
After enjoying for a Short time the piiflurefque scene into which we had been transported we were conducted, into a mansion,. which imprefsed you, more with the idea of elegance, and happiness, than, of. fplendoc and, magnificence..
‘^'hefe we have retired, '* said'ourr friend, “from the gay world, to enjoy rational; pleasure, and the conver, sat ion of those that are dear, to us.. You mull not, mistake me, we are not hermits; we see such of our neighboucs as. are agreeable, .as often.as we, pleare, V and those whose company does not add to our happiness, serve now and then
to remind us that even the brightest
iu
 or
Kiminary has its Spots. A little, Scu
■•.ry •
damore, miift be Sacrificed to good manners; ard perhaps even these oc cahonal interruptions add more to our enjoyments than may be imagined. Our house in towrl too, we keep from necessity. buiiness Sometimes leads me there, and believe me, I do not now wish to be unaccompanied these I'afl: words were attended by one of the softest and moll expressive Smiles towards his lady; which was reflected back by a look which would have kindled a flame in a bosom less fusceptible of gentle emotions than that of Mandeville.
The rest of the evening was Spent in converse sweet and we retired to rest with those feelings of tranquillity, which may better be conceived than
4
described.
This
25s  .
This morning our worthy host invited Mr. Scudamore to a walk over his grounds, which appear to have every advantage which nature or arc can give them. As they approached a very elegant mftic temple, Situated on the top of a rock, at the foot of which a river flowed in a deep channel, and commanded a fine variety of wood and water, our friend observed,
that as he had (hewn Mr. Scudamore;
/
what was peculiarly his 'own province, he thought it but common justice to his amiable wife, to give him a Specimen of her tafle. ' The temple was ornamented in the mofl beautiful manner; and what added greatly to ith beauties in the eyes ofmandeville, allies ornaments were either made by
I
j.ady catharine’s dire, ilion, or with her own hand.. ‘‘ You wjll naturahv
suppose” ” Mandeville, this

 . 2^,
place mur have many charms for me. Indeed we Spend much time here. I read, and endeavour to amuse my
sweet Kate, while die is finishing thbse
%
elegant drawings with which this little temple is ornamented. But, ( added he) you have never heard, from myself at least, how this agreeable change has taken place, and how I became poflelted of So inestimable a treasure.. Our situation here is favourable to my Story; and you may amuse yoiirself with my catharine’s labours, while I inform you how we became united in
pile indiltoluble band.”
, Hijlory of Mandeville concluded.
I left India, my friend, with all the fears of a lover, without any of his hopes. Indeed I had no reason to fup pose, that a young lady of high birth and the most amiable qualifications,
Should

26xy  OF FRIENDSHIF
Should remember one who was the
0 •
outcast osfortunfe; and who had fled from her So abruptly at the Very moment perhaps when a more bold adventurer

would have profited by So fortunate a discovery. If the lady, however, saw my behaviour in a different point of view, it was a proof She had penetrated my secret intentions; and to this very circumfiance, it is probable, I owe the continuance of her regard for mea forward avowal ofmy paition would have deserved a
repulse. But She saw the delicacy of
%
myflfuation, and attributed my sudden departure to its real motived
Upon my first return to England I visited my mother m her country retirement,. A few years before, Ihe had begun to firare my prosperity, from the remittances which had been
for
\
.
261
fortunate enough to reach her. Our meeting, you may imagine, would not be a little interefung; she found a Son fly had loll; and I a mother, whom I was now happy enough to place in a situation which tee Sojuftly deserved, and to which tee was in all respefts entitled. It was my mother’s wite not to remove from the present place of her abode. My firll Summer therefore was employed in ornamenting and enlarging her cottage. I puj'chafed a neighbouring farm, and made every con vend : nce that I imagined
could render the remaining part of her life comfortable. We held consultptions on the plans of life my two brothers were to pursue, and my filters were placed in Schools at no great difiance from home. I had chosen professions for my brothers, as ny late connexions had led me to suspect

 OF FR1ENDSHII>*
pet the integrity of trade. Not that I imagined the principles of commerce to be founded in a want of virtue; but that I had Seen too many instances'
'the desire of growing rich had
%
absolutely led many persons, even of respeflable characters, to lose sight of honesty. That is, their connexions
^ A
with mankind, and general trafiic with all sorts of people, had led them to look less strictly on the transactions of commerce, than the recluse philosopher.. moralist would have done, ’’

Having finished, for the present,.
at least, my employments in the country, I began to think of returning to town, where my India affairs required my presence. My firsc place
V
of residence there was the house of my generous benefadlor, by whose means I was now enabled to look on future
days
V
thoughts.
 , 263
days without a Sigh. Gratitude held a diftinguilhed place within my breast, and whilst J enjoyed the gift, I was not unmindful of the giver. Do not think that during this period of time Lady Catharine was absent from my
I thought of her indeed, but as of one fainted for her virtues, to whom the holy hermit in his moity cell, looks up with daily veneration. Upon inquiring I found the family of his Lordihiphad received an alteration by the death of his maiden lister; that his Lordship had been himself long confined to his chamber; and that his amiable, yet unmarried daughter,
was his nurse.”

By Some accident in Conversation,
*
my esteem for this lady was made known to my friend. This produced a detail of the circumftancesi formerly
men
264  OF friendshit,
ft
4
mentioned to you; and concluded with my friend’s pressing advice that I ilhouid pay a visit to the noble Lord, my former patron. I paved the way by a letter to his Lordihip, and received
permission to wait upon him. I was
%
punctual to the hour he fixed; and found him greatly altered since the time I saw him last. He was no longer the imperious Peer that I remembered, haughty and felf opinion ated, but sunk into an easy chair, and v/raptup in flannels. You see me
here, Mandeville, ” said his Lordship
* ^
what I V as, but bowed together with illness more than yeai s. There is another change in me, at which, I am sure you will rejoice. I have laid aside my old favourites, Hume and Voltaire, and am no longer a sceptic.” I sincerely congratulated him on the change, and told him that I thought
illness,
WIEATH OF , aljj
iilness, and even his present debilitated Condition, well exchanged for Such
True, Man
dangerous opinions. deville, ’^ he added, and I Should not have been in my present miserable (late, if my opinions then had been ‘ such as they now are, I thought the dilates of nature my bell guide; that is, I considered the reason I enjoyed, as impelling me to the pleasures of a brute. You see the consequence, I am unable to aflill myself. But I do not repine; my present studies, though every line gives a stab to my former course of life, lead me to contentment, and even sometimes inspire me with tranquility.’’
My pleasare was indeed great to hear his Lordihip talk thus rationally. I could not avoid inquiring to
vol III

N
I
whom
a66

■whom this happy alteration mull be ascribed. “To my daughter. Lady 'Catharine, your old acquaintance, ’taid the Peer. “She has not only been my nurse, but has all the merit of my conversion. She has read to me during my illness many books which 1 had never heard of, or at 'least had no wish to be acquainted with. Indeed, she is a good girl, and has preferred her attendance upon me, to many ad
I.
vantageous offers from noblemen of the moult dillinguifhed characters. Lady Catharine had never yet made her appearance, and I "knew not why, but I Seemed to have no power to inquire after her. His Lordship after this mention ofhis daughter rung the bell, and desired the servant to inform Lady Catharine that Mr. Mandeville was with him An answer soon returned

V
 . 267
turned, that her Ladyship, from an in dispoiition, was unable to wait u|>oii them. You cannot conceive how my heart sunk within me. Though I never had any reason to hope, 1 now found an uncommon propensity to tiefpdr. After Shortening my viht I took my leave of his Lordship; but not without making a promise that I would soon wait, upon him again.'’
‘mn this interval I can hardly describe my uneasiness. I almost willed I had continued in India, and spent the remainder of my life amidst ra jahs and Nabobs.”
*■ ^ About a fortnight after, my steps led me almost involuntarily to th door of his Lordlliip's house. I was soon admitted into the break fast room.
N %
where
268
 F
where I found Lady Catharine writings at a desk. If a fpedator had been present, our mutual confusion would infallibly have betrayed our situation. After a Short but helitating conversation, her Ladyship begged to conduct me to her father. This interview, in which nothing palled but mutual civilities, relieved my mind; I found my spirits revive, and hope began to dawn in my bread.
I Shall not, my friend, give you the hillory of my wooing; nothing is so ridiculous as a recital of love transactions. It is Sufficient to say, our acquaintance soon increased to , our friendihip to esteem, and our esteem ended in pain, downright, honejl, love. His Lordship Saw our mutual affection, and .approved of it.
In
  269
In the midst, however, of this de* lighful season, his loidlhip’s illntss increased to an alarming height. He blessed us on his deathbed, and de'
'
lived his daughter to my care, die, Mandeviile, ’’ Said he, ‘
firmer hopes than I had ever reason to
%
expect. As the hour of my dissolution approaches, I feel a greater northeast cefiity for trull;. How miserable mull their Situation be who fear to leave this world, and fink into annihilation! Cherish and protect the dear saint to whom I owe my present happiness; fire deserves it of you. And for you my friend, ’^ he paused, as if in pain, then added, nobility without virtue is a vain pretension.” He did not live long after this; and with unfeigned Sorrow I attended his lordihip’s remains to the tomb of his ancestors.
N 3
J
His
ayo  .
Hi’s title, with part of his estate, descended to a distant branch of his family, in the male line; the other part, which was large, to his amiable daughter.’’
Upon the death of her father,
V
Lady Catharine retired to one of his
\
country seats. In proper time fly made me happy in the poireflion of her hand; her heart fliehad long before conferred upon me. This was the place of her retirement; and the adorning of this temple one of her arnusements. Congratulate me on the possession of Such a treasure; She Subdues me by her charms, and inflrudts me by her example.”

Thus our amiable friend finished his narrative, and I have endeavoured
to
 .
2*71
t ^
so give it you in the Same, words I received it from. Mr. Scudamore, that
you may rejoice with me, in having
#
found two persons worthy of so much happiness.
4
your’s,

Emily Scudamore,

LETTER XCIV
Lady juuadrummond, to ’bays.seymout.
Livingdon abbeyy Odfober 4.
OU would be astoniflried, my dearell Eliza, to See the great change a few hours has wrought in this family. Every countenance is lighted up with Smiles; and every individual seems to feel a fenlible joy which words have not the power of
n4
ex

272  .
exprefliiig. It is the arrival of Mr.
%
Wentworth that has brought about this happy effed, We were all assembled in the drawing-room yesterday evening, when the door was hastily thrown open, and a genteel looking middle aged man entered. After darting a look round the room, he advanced towards Mrs.wentworth, and exclaimed, Litis my Orixana! the beloved of my soul! from whom I have been So lon^ cruelly Separated. Is it possible I have once more the happiness of clasping thee to this
fond beating heart “My Charles! my long lost husband V were all the words Mrs. Wentworth could articulate; for instantly she sunk breathless into his arms. His agitation is not to be described, ‘^have I then again lost thee, my love, ” cried he, and art
thou
 . 273
thou now gone for ever? Alas, it is
my precipitation that has deprived • thee of existence. Good heavens !' what have I done to deserve such complicated misery? Am i forever doomed to behold happiness, and when I think my bliss secure, have it elude my grasp, and leave me more forlorn, more wretched than before.” Drummond flew to his assistance, and very Soon after Mrs. Wentworth began to, revive. Mr. Wentworth threw him ■ on one knee by her fide as. She lay upon the sopha, and prefiing one of her hands between his, watched every,
turn pf her countenance with unspeakable anxiety. At last, when .she was nearly recovered he dropped her hand;. and clasping his own with fervor,, turned his eyes to heaven, as if Silent,
,

ly returning thanks for this almost; mu
raculous meeting.
The Scene that ensued, you may
imagine, my Eliza; but I am quite
unequal to describe. I was indeed.
particularly affected; even now, the re
colle6hon of it almost overpowers me.
When the firll tumult of their joy was
a little subsided, Mrs. Wentworth requested
Ihe might have the inexpressible
delight of presenting to him
their child, hei: dear Selina! My attention
had been so entirely occupied
with the pathetic meeting that had
just taken place, that I did not, till
that moment observe that Weflbury
was in the room, and was endeavour
ing all in his power, tp calm and
sooth poor Selina, whose sensibility
was audible. She instantly Sprung
for

»
#1

 .
ns
forward, and throwing herself at her. father’s feet ejtclaimed, i.etme, ohl. let me, once have the Supreme happiness of hearing a blessing pronounced upon me from the lips of both my parents !” May heaven ihower.down. its choiced: blessings on thee, thou image of the bell of women. Oh! my Selina, my child! if you resemble my much loved mother as much in mind as you do in person, I will pro ^ nouncc you worthy the affeslion of a Weftbury. But let me praise as well as bless thee; let the first: words a fond
a
parent addresses to thee, be thanks for thy Strict adherence to the laws ol obedience; hadft.thou deviated from, them, misery must have, been thy portion; that was the rock we split upon. I, wretch that I was! raoily tempted thy mother, then young and.
m


276  .
inexperienced, to deceive the kindest of friends, thinking, that in pofles fing her I could resign every other earthly consideration;; I was pnnilhed where I most merited it, by being deprived of the object of my tendered: affedfion. But we will now, my love, ’^' taking Mrs.. wentworth’s hand, ^‘banilh all these gloomy Icenes from our remembrance and look forward with confidence to, many years of future.blifs; trusting,, our misfortunes have, in some ■ compensated for our pad errors. I mull now request, my, Orixana, you will: introduce me to, Lord and Lady St. Clair; but where can a man find words to express his, thankfulness to. Such, friends friends, that, have preserved his helpless, ^ his innocent child, from misery,
and i

 .
2)7
and ruin.

“No thanks are due
i
to me on that score, ’^ Said my father, “whoever your Selina Shall favour with her Society, will be more than repaid for any care they may have on her account. I
ever love her as my own child; Ilie is alt excellence, all goodness; and I can truly say. She has never occasioned me one anxious moment since I firll knew her.’^
Mr. Wentworth bowed gracefully, but made no reply; then turning to me, Said, “I will not trouble
any
one to inform me who this
Lady is; I am certain in these features I recognise Lady Julia, She whose name has so often echoed through our melancholy dungeon!
But
278  ,
But I do not perceive any Symptoms of that hardneis of heart, Lordi Wellbury, which we heard so vehemently laid to her charge; her tears can flow for the diftreltes of her friends; and it is poor Selwyn. alone that has not the power of e; sciting her attention.’*
But we will not accuse her of insensibility whilst Ihe can produce Mr. Drummond for a reason for her indifference. You see, my Lord St. Clair, ” continued he, “I already
look upon myself as one of your party; this excellent young man whom I ■glory in calling my fon, has made me feel more than acquainted with you all.”
My
 . 279
My mother now prevailed upon them to take Some refrelliment; and reminded Lord weslbury, that he had not Seen his father ‘‘ I will attend him instantly, ’^ Said he, will my Selina do me the favour? ex cuse me, 1 did not at that moment recoiled that you were only just now restored to a fond parent.” Allow me to answer for Lady Weftbury, ” Said my mother, Ihe will, 1 am sure with pleasure accompany you; the ride will be of, service to her:
\
I am forty to say her fp hits are not equal to support much of either. joy or grief at one time; and try if you can prevail — rrptrrr Lord Mordington to. return with you to supper. And Shall I like wise request youj Mr. vventworth, to condiid Mrs. Wentworth for a few minutes into the
break"

280 . .
break fall room. Her feelings Seem at present almost insupportable; and I think a little private conversatioh with you more likely to calm and compose her mind, than any argument we can at present ufe.’* “How can my heart be ever grateful enough to your Ladyship for your consideration ** Mr. Wentworth, “how happy has been my child in meeting with fuen a benefabtrefs !’*

As soon as we had thus happily difposed of them we sat down to compose our spirits likewise; for our pleasure was of that enthuliaftic kind, that is not easy to be born.
u
Lord and Lady Weftbury returned
in less than an hour, and brought an
apolocv

 ,

8i
apology from Lord Mordington, and a rcqueil that the whole party would spend the next day with him, as he was anxious to put his Son and daughter in poifession of their new habitation, and then hasten to Bath, to get entirely rid of a trouble Some fit of the gout that he has long been combating with.
Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth joined us in the Supper room, they seemed perfectly composed and tranquil; that cloud, which notwithstanding her earnest endeavour to dissipate it, hung continually over her countenance, was entirely dispersed; and nothing remained but Serenity and cheerfulness. I could not avoid oneunavailing regret, that a man so calculated to Shine in
any Situation
, Should have been
doomed
 OF frrindshlf*
doomed to spend all his best days in
obscurity and misery ^
supper they had some conversation upon the place they Should pitch on for their future residence. Devonihire was thought too distant. My father recommended a house about ten miles from hence, which I fancy will be the place
On Thursday we are to leave li vingfton; but I hope before that time Mr. Seymour and you will be here, as we depend much on your accompanying us to Herefordshire. Mr and Mrs. Scudamore will there join us; and soon after I hope this party will be with us. All these pleasant refledlions keep up my foirits, in leaving a place where I have fj^ent
fou.
of Pa.
Library
'-
/•
%
 Oi

-(
% many hours of felicity; for in my elfimation ther%is no blessing on earth equal to that of being surrounded by a society of sincere friends, where ail
is har
land cheerfulness.

V




■julia Drummondt

4


%
4 ^ •
the end
V
nbz
time M
here, as we depend much on your accompanying us to Herefordshire. Mr and Mrs. Scudamore will there join us; and soon after I hope this party will be with us. All these pleasant reflections keep up my Spirits, in leaving a place where I have Spent
So
\
U. of Pa.
Librapy
